FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20061206162640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
The disclosure contained in "Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement" and Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement.
3
 7
/
8
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011
On December 1, 2006, Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") issued and sold $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 3
 7
/
8
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "Notes") through a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Notes were sold pursuant to a Purchase Agreement dated November 27, 2006 by and among the Company, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("Ventas Realty") and Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. (collectively, the "Ventas Entities") and the initial purchasers named therein (the "Initial Purchasers").
The Notes mature on November 15, 2011, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted in accordance with their terms. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 3
 7
/
8
% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on May 15, 2007. The Notes are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by Ventas Realty and certain of the Company's other direct and indirect subsidiaries until certain conditions are met.
The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and the guarantors, ranking equal in right of payment with such entities' existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and ranking senior in right of payment to all of such entities' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. The Notes will be effectively subordinated to such entities' secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Notes will also be structurally subordinated to the preferred equity and indebtedness, whether secured or unsecured, of the Company's subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes to repay outstanding indebtedness under its revolving credit facility and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
The terms of the Notes, summarized below, are governed by the Indenture dated as of December 1, 2006 (the "Indenture") among the Company, as issuer, the subsidiary guarantors named therein, as guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee.
The Notes are convertible at the option of the holder (1) prior to September 15, 2011, upon the occurrence of specified events, and (2) on or after September 15, 2011, at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to maturity, in each case into cash or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock, if any, at the Company's
election, at an initial conversion rate of 22.1867 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which equates to an initial conversion price of $45.07 per share). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The Company may not redeem the Notes prior to maturity except to the extent necessary to preserve the Company's status as a real estate investment trust.
If the Company undergoes certain change in control transactions, holders of Notes may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be so repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
The Indenture contains customary events of default including, without limitation, failure to make required payments, failure to comply with certain agreements or covenants, cross-defaults to certain other indebtedness in excess of specified amounts, certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency, and failure to pay certain judgments. An event of default under the Indenture will allow either the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes to accelerate, or in certain cases, will automatically cause the acceleration of, the amounts due under the Notes.
U.S. Bank National Association, the trustee under the Indenture, is also the trustee under each of the indentures relating to the 8
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2009, 6
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2010, 9% Senior Notes due 2012, 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014, 7
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2015, 6
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 and 6
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2017 issued by Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital Corporation.
The foregoing description of the Notes and the Indenture is qualified by reference in its entirety to the Indenture, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, or applicable state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or applicable exemptions from these registration requirements.
Registration Rights Agreement
On December 1, 2006, the Company and the Initial Purchasers entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (or otherwise make available for use), on or prior to the 120th day following the original issuance of the Notes, a shelf registration statement (the "Shelf Registration Statement") covering resales of the shares of common stock, if any, issuable upon conversion of the Notes. The Company is required to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become effective on or prior to the 180th day following the original issuance of the Notes and to use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the earlier of (1) the 20
th
trading day
immediately following the maturity of the Notes and (2) the date on which there are no longer any notes or restricted shares of common stock, if any, issuable upon conversion of the Notes remaining outstanding or unsold.
If the Company fails to satisfy certain of its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company is required to pay additional interest on the Notes to the holders of the Notes under certain circumstances.
The foregoing description of the Registration Rights Agreement is qualified by reference in its entirety to the Registration Rights Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On December 5, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.395 per share, payable in cash on January 12, 2007 to stockholders of record on January 2, 2007. The dividend is the fourth quarterly installment of the Company's 2006 annual dividend.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on December 5, 2006 is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 8.01 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of December 1, 2006, between Ventas, Inc., a Delaware company (hereinafter called the ""), having its principal executive office at 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined herein) and U.S. Bank National Association, a banking association organized under the laws of the United States, as trustee hereunder (hereinafter called the "").
Issuer
Trustee
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other parties and for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of the Issuer's 3
 7
/
8
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (hereinafter called the "") on the date hereof and the guarantees thereof by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
Notes
Section 1.01The terms defined in this Section 1.01 (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section 1.01. All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act (as defined below) or which are by reference therein defined in the Securities Act (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the Trust Indenture Act and in the Securities Act as in force at the date of the execution of this Indenture. The words "," "," "" and words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other Subdivision. The terms defined in this Article include the plural as well as the singular.
. Definitions.
herein
hereof
hereunder
"" means the 8
2009 Notes
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2009 issued by Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated April 17, 2002, by and among Ventas Realty, Ventas Capital, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank, National Association, as trustee, as supplemented.
"" means the 6
2010 Notes
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2010 issued by Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated June 7, 2005, by and among Ventas Realty, Ventas Capital, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank, National Association, as trustee, as supplemented.
"" means the 9% Senior Notes due 2012 issued by Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated April 17, 2002, by and among Ventas Realty, Ventas Capital, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank, National Association, as trustee, as supplemented.
2012 Notes
"" means the 6
2014 Notes
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014 issued by Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated October 15, 2004, by and among Ventas Realty, Ventas Capital, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank, National Association, as trustee, as supplemented.
"" means the 7
2015 Notes
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2015 issued by Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated June 7, 2005, by and among Ventas Realty, Ventas Capital, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank, National Association, as trustee, as supplemented.
"" means the 6
2016 Notes
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 issued by Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated December 9, 2005, by and among Ventas Realty, Ventas Capital, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank, National Association, as trustee, as supplemented.
"" means the 6
2017 Notes
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2017 issued by Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated September 19, 2006, by and among Ventas Realty, Ventas Capital, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank, National Association, as trustee, as supplemented.
"" has the meaning specified for such term in Section 7 of the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.10.
Additional Interest Notice
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Additional Notes
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.13.
Additional Shares
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control," when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(b).
Agent Members
 
"" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal, state, or foreign law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
"" means the Board of Directors of the Issuer or a committee of such Board duly authorized to act for it hereunder.
Board of Directors
"" means, with respect to any Note, any day, other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York City.
Business Day
"" of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any Preferred Stock, but excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.
Capital Stock
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.12(b).
Cash Percentage
"" means the certificate of incorporation of the Issuer, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof and applicable law.
Certificate of Incorporation
"" means the occurrence at any time any of the following events: (1) consummation of any transaction or event (whether by means of a share exchange or tender offer applicable to Common Stock, a liquidation, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, combination or merger of the Issuer or a sale, lease or other transfer of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Issuer) or a series of related transactions or events pursuant to which all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock are exchanged for, converted into or constitute solely the right to receive, cash, securities or other property; (2) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used for purposes of Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, whether or not applicable), other than the Issuer or any majority owned subsidiary of the Issuer or any employee benefit plan of the Issuer or such subsidiary, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d 3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power in the aggregate of all classes of shares of Capital Stock of the Issuer then outstanding entitled to vote generally in elections of the Issuer's directors; or (3) during any period of 12 consecutive months after the date of original issuance of the Notes, persons who at the beginning of such 12 month period constituted the Board of Directors of the Issuer, together with any new persons whose election was approved by a vote of a majority of the persons then still comprising the Board of Directors of the Issuer who were either members of the Board of Directors of the Issuer at the beginning of such period or whose election, designation or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors
Change in Control
 
of the Issuer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, even if any of the events specified in the preceding clauses (1) through (3) have occurred, except as specified in clause (x), a Change in Control will not be deemed to have occurred if either: (x) the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock for any five Trading Days within (i) the period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending immediately after the later of the Change in Control or the public announcement of the Change in Control, in the case of a Change in Control relating to an acquisition of capital stock, or (ii) the period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending immediately after the Change in Control, in the case of a Change in Control relating to a merger, consolidation or asset sale, equals or exceeds 105% of the Conversion Price applicable to the Notes in effect on each of those Trading Days; , , that the exception to the definition of "Change in Control" specified in this clause (x) shall not apply in the context of a Change in Control for purposes of Section 13.01(a)(iv) or Section 13.13; or (y) at least 90% of the consideration (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made pursuant to dissenters' appraisal rights) in a merger, consolidation or other transaction otherwise constituting a Change in Control consists of shares of common stock (or depositary receipts or other certificates representing common equity interests) traded on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange or an established automated over the counter trading market in the U.S. or quoted on a national quotation system (or will be so traded or quoted immediately following such merger, consolidation or other transaction) and as a result of the merger, consolidation or other transaction the Notes become convertible into such shares of common stock (or depositary receipts or other certificates representing common equity interests). For the purposes of this definition, "person" includes any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
provided
however
"" has the meaning provided in Section 3.05(a) hereof.
Change in Control Purchase Price
"" has the meaning provided in Section 3.05(a) hereof.
Change in Control Repurchase Date
"," with respect to shares of Common Stock or other Capital Stock or similar equity interests or other publicly traded securities on any date means the closing sale price per share (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the closing bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average closing bid and the average closing ask prices) on such date as reported on the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such other Capital Stock or similar equity interests or other securities are traded or, if the Common Stock or such other Capital Stock or similar equity interests or other securities are not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated or another established over the counter trading market in the U.S. The Closing Sale Price
Closing Sale Price
 
shall be determined without regard to after hours trading or extended market making. In the absence of the foregoing, the Issuer shall determine the Closing Sale Price on such basis as it considers appropriate.
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
"" means the common stock of the Issuer, par value $0.25, as it exists on the date of this Indenture or shares of any class or classes resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Issuer and which are not subject to redemption by the Issuer; that if at any time there shall be more than one such resulting class, the shares of each such class then so issuable on conversion shall be substantially in the proportion which the total number of shares of such class resulting from all such reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all such classes resulting from all such reclassifications.
Common Stock
provided
"" means the conversion agent appointed by the Issuer to act as set forth in Article 13, which, initially, shall be the Trustee.
Conversion Agent
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.02.
Conversion Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.02.
Conversion Notice
"" on any date of determination means $1,000 divided by the Conversion Rate as of such date.
Conversion Price
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.04.
Conversion Rate
"" or other similar term, means the designated office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business as it relates to this Indenture shall be administered, which office is, at the date as of which this Indenture is dated, located at 425 Walnut Street, 6th Floor, ML CN WN 06 CT, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or at any other time at such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Issuer.
Corporate Trust Office
"" means the Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures.
CUSIP
 
"" means U.S. Bank National Association, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Custodian
"" has the meaning provided in Section 13.12(b).
Daily Conversion Value
"" has the meaning provided in Section 13.12(b).
Daily Settlement Amount
"" has the meaning provided in Section 13.12(b).
Daily VWAP
"" means any event that is, or after notice or passage of time, or both, would be, an Event of Default.
default
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03.
Defaulted Interest
"" means the clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act as the depositary for the Global Notes. DTC shall be the initial Depositary, until a successor shall have been appointed and become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter, "" shall mean or include such successor.
Depositary
Depositary
"" means The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.13(b).
Effective Date
"" means any event specified in Section 6.01 as an Event of Default.
Event of Default
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.01(a)(iv).
ex-dividend date
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as in effect from time to time.
Exchange Act
"" means the 2009 Notes, the 2012 Notes, the 2014 Notes, the 2010 Notes, the 2015 Notes, the 2016 Notes and the 2017 Notes.
Existing Senior Notes
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.05(e).
Expiration Time
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02.
Global Note
"" means this instrument as originally executed or, if amended or supplemented as herein provided, as so amended or supplemented.
Indenture
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Initial Notes
 
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated.
Initial Purchasers
"" means, when used with reference to the Notes, any interest payable under the terms of the Notes, including Additional Interest, if any, payable under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement.
interest
"" means May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning on May 15, 2007.
Interest Payment Date
"" means the party named as the "Issuer" in the first paragraph of this Indenture, and, subject to the provisions of Article 10, shall include its successors and assigns.
Issuer
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.07(a).
Issuer Repurchase Notice
"" means the date on which the Issuer provides the Issuer Repurchase Notice to holders in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05(b).
Issuer Repurchase Notice Date
"" means any day other than a Business Day.
Legal Holiday
"" has the meaning provided in Section 13.12(b).
Market Disruption Event
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
"" has the meaning specified in Section 14.03.
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.12(b).
Net Amount
"" or "" means any Note or Notes, as the case may be, authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, including the Initial Notes, any Additional Notes and any Global Note.
Note
Notes
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(a).
Note Register
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(a).
Note Registrar
"" "" or "" as applied to any Note, or other similar terms (but excluding the term ""), means any Person in whose name at the time a particular Note is registered on the Note Registrar's books.
Noteholder,
Holder
holder
beneficial holder
 
"" means the New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.12(b).
Observation Period
"" means the Issuer's offering memorandum dated November 27, 2006 relating to the Notes.
Offering Memorandum
"" means any person holding any of the following positions with the Issuer: the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Investment Officer, any Vice President (whether or not designated by a number or numbers or word or words added before or after the title "Vice President"), the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller and the Secretary. The term Officer of any Subsidiary Guarantor has a correlative meaning.
Officer
"", when used with respect to the Issuer or the Subsidiary Guarantors, as applicable, means a certificate signed by any two Officers.
Officers' Certificate
"" means an opinion in writing signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Issuer, or other counsel reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
"", when used with reference to Notes and subject to the provisions of Section 8.04, means, as of any particular time, all Notes authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except:
outstanding
(a) Notes theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(b) Notes, or portions thereof, (i) for the redemption or repurchase of which monies in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any Paying Agent (other than the Issuer) or (ii) which shall have been otherwise discharged in accordance with Article 11;
(c) Notes in lieu of which, or in substitution for which, other Notes shall have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of Section 2.06; and
(d) Notes converted pursuant to Article 13.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.08.
Paying Agent
"" means a corporation, an association, a partnership, a limited liability company, an individual, a joint venture, a joint stock company, a trust, an
Person
 
unincorporated organization or a government or an agency or a political subdivision thereof.
"" means The PORTAL Market
PORTAL Market
SM
operated by the Nasdaq Stock Market or any successor thereto.
"" of any particular Note means every previous Note evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Note, and, for the purposes of this definition, any Note authenticated and delivered under Section 2.06 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Note shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed or stolen Note that it replaces.
Predecessor Note
"", as applied to the Capital Stock of any corporation, means Capital Stock of any class or classes (however designated) which is preferred as to the payment of dividends, or as to the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation or dissolution of such corporation, over shares of Capital Stock of any other class of such corporation.
Preferred Stock
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.13(h).
Public Acquirer Change in Control
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.13(h).
Public Acquirer Common Stock
"" means the Purchase Agreement, dated November 27, 2006, among the Issuer, Ventas Realty, Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. and the Initial Purchasers.
Purchase Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03.
Record Date
"" means the date fixed by the Issuer for redemption of all or any portion of the Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 hereof.
Redemption Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.05(c).
Repurchase Notice
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.05(d).
Reference Dividend
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.06(a)
Reference Property
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2006, among the Issuer and the Initial Purchasers, as amended from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" shall mean, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee with direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of or familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(c).
Restricted Securities
"" means Rule 144A as promulgated under the Securities Act, as it may be amended from time to time hereafter.
Rule 144A
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGrawHill Companies, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.12(b) hereof.
Scheduled Trading Day
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as in effect from time to time.
Securities Act
"" means, as of any date of determination, a Subsidiary of the Issuer that would constitute a "" as such term is defined under Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X of the Commission as in effect on the date of this Indenture.
Significant Subsidiary
significant subsidiary
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.05(c).
Spin-Off
"" means November 15, 2011.
Stated Maturity
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.13(b).
Stock Price
"" means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of shares of capital stock or other equity interests entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more of the other subsidiaries of that Person (or a combination thereof) and (ii) any partnership (a) the sole general partner or managing general partner of which is such Person or a subsidiary of such Person or (b) the only general partners of which are such Person or of one or more subsidiaries of such Person (or any combination thereof).
Subsidiary
"" means, individually, the guarantee of payment of the Notes by a Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to the terms of this Indenture and
Subsidiary Guarantee
 
any supplemental indenture hereto (including pursuant to Exhibit B), and, collectively, all such guarantees. Each such Subsidiary Guarantee will be in the form prescribed by this Indenture.
"" means Ventas Realty and each Subsidiary of the Issuer that is a guarantor of any of the Existing Senior Notes as of the date hereof, as set forth in Schedule A hereto, and any other Subsidiary that executes a Subsidiary Guarantee in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture; provided, however, that upon the release and discharge of any Person from its Subsidiary Guarantee in accordance with this Indenture, such Person shall cease to be a Subsidiary Guarantor.
Subsidiary Guarantor
"" means a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the NYSE or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the NYSE, on the principal other U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded; provided that, for purposes of Section 13.12, the term Trading Day shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.12(b).
Trading Day
"" has the meaning specified in Section 13.01(a)(ii).
Trading Price
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as it was in force at the date of this Indenture; that if the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after the date hereof, the term "" shall mean, to the extent required by such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
provided
Trust Indenture Act
"" means U.S. Bank National Association and its successors and any corporation resulting from or surviving any consolidation or merger to which it or its successors may be a party and any successor trustee at the time serving as successor trustee hereunder.
Trustee
"" means the United States of America.
U.S.
"" means Ventas Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Ventas Capital
"" means Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership.
Ventas Realty
 
Section 2.01The Notes shall be designated as the "." Subject to this Section 2.01, upon the execution of this Indenture, and from time to time thereafter, Notes may be executed by the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver Notes upon a written order of the Issuer, such order signed by two Officers, without any further action by the Issuer hereunder.
. Designation Amount and Issue of Notes.
37/8 % Convertible Senior Notes due 2011
The aggregate principal amount of Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is initially limited to $230,000,000. The Issuer may, without the consent of the holders of Notes, issue additional debt securities (the "") from time to time in the future with the same terms, except for any difference in the issue price and interest accrued prior to the issue date of the Additional Notes, and with the same CUSIP number as the Notes originally issued under this Indenture (the "") in an unlimited principal amount, provided that such Additional Notes must be part of the same issue as the Initial Notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Initial Notes and any such Additional Notes shall constitute a single series of debt securities, and in circumstances in which this Indenture provides for the holders of Notes to vote or take any action, the holders of Initial Notes and the holders of any such Additional Notes shall vote or take that action as a single class.
Additional Notes
Initial Notes
Section 2.02The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication to be borne by such Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto. The terms and provisions contained in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A hereto shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
. Form of Notes.
Any of the Notes may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such notations, legends, endorsements or changes as the officers executing the same may approve (execution thereof to be conclusive evidence of such approval) and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required by the Custodian, the Depositary or by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. in order for the Notes to be tradable on The PORTAL Market or as may be required for the Notes to be tradable on any other market developed for trading of securities pursuant to Rule 144A or as may be required to comply with any applicable law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Notes may be listed, or to conform to
 
usage, or to indicate any special limitations or restrictions to which any particular Notes are subject.
So long as the Notes are eligible for book-entry settlement with the Depositary, or unless otherwise required by law, or otherwise contemplated by Section 2.05(b), all of the Notes shall be represented by one or more Notes in global form registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary (a ""). The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in any such Global Note shall be effected through the Depositary in accordance with this Indenture and the applicable procedures of the Depositary. Except as provided in Section 2.05(b), beneficial owners of a Global Note shall not be entitled to have certificates registered in their names, shall not receive or be entitled to receive physical delivery of certificates in definitive form and shall not be considered holders of such Global Note.
Global Note
Any Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be increased or reduced to reflect redemptions, repurchases, conversions, exchanges or transfers permitted hereby. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in such manner and upon instructions given by the holder of such Notes in accordance with this Indenture. Payment of principal of, and interest on, any Global Note shall be made to the holder of such Note.
Section 2.03The Notes shall be issuable in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples thereof. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication and shall bear interest from the date specified on the face of the form of Note attached as Exhibit A hereto. Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
. Date and Denomination of Notes; Payments of Interest.
The Person in whose name any Note (or its Predecessor Note) is registered on the Note Register at the close of business, New York City time, on any Record Date with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall be entitled to receive the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date; interest payable on the Stated Maturity, a Redemption Date or a Change in Control Repurchase Date, as the case may be, shall be payable to the Person to whom principal is payable; and , that if a Redemption Date or a Change in Control Repurchase Date, as the case may be, falls on or after a Record Date and prior to the related Interest Payment Date, the semi-annual payment of interest becoming due on such Interest Payment Date shall be payable to the holder of such Note
provided that
provided
further
 
registered as such on the related Record Date. Interest shall be payable at the office of the Issuer maintained by the Issuer for such purposes in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, which shall initially be an office or agency of the Trustee. The Issuer shall pay interest (i) on any Notes in certificated form by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears in the Note Register; , , that a holder of any Notes in certificated form in the aggregate principal amount of more than $5,000,000 may specify by written notice to the Issuer that it pay interest by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account specified by the Noteholder in such notice, or (ii) on any Global Note by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Depositary or its nominee. If a payment date is not a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no additional interest shall accrue thereon. The term "" with respect to any Interest Payment Date shall mean the May 1 or the November 1, in each case whether or not such day is a Business Day, next preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date. Interest payable on each Interest Payment Date or any other date on which interest shall be payable shall equal the amount of interest accrued for the period from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest has been paid (or from and including December 1, 2006 if no interest shall have been payable) to but excluding such Interest Payment Date or other date on which such interest shall be payable.
provided
however
Record Date
Any interest on any Note which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Noteholder registered as such on the relevant Record Date, and such Defaulted Interest shall be paid by the Issuer, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
Defaulted Interest
(1) The Issuer may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Notes (or their respective Predecessor Notes) are registered at the close of business, New York City time, on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Issuer shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment (which shall be not less than twenty five (25) calendar days after the receipt by the Trustee of such notice, unless the Trustee shall consent to an earlier date), and at the same time the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest (which shall be not more than fifteen (15) calendar days and not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of the proposed payment, and not less than ten (10) calendar days after the receipt by the Trustee of the
 
notice of the proposed payment, unless the Trustee shall consent to an earlier date). The Trustee shall promptly notify the Issuer of such special record date and, in the name and at the expense of the Issuer, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each holder at its address as it appears in the Note Register, not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to such special record date, unless the Trustee shall consent to an earlier date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the special record date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Notes (or their respective Predecessor Notes) are registered at the close of business, New York City time, on such special record date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2) of this Section 2.03.
(2) The Issuer may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Notes may be listed or designated for issuance, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange or automated quotation system, if, after notice given by the Issuer to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Section 2.04The Notes shall be signed in the name and on behalf of the Issuer by the manual or facsimile signature of two Officers. Only such Notes as shall bear thereon a certificate of authentication substantially in the form set forth on the form of Note attached as Exhibit A hereto, manually executed by the Trustee (or an authenticating agent appointed by the Trustee as provided by Section 15.10), shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. Such certificate by the Trustee (or such an authenticating agent) upon any Note executed by the Issuer shall be conclusive evidence that the Note so authenticated has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and that the holder is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
. Execution of Notes.
In case any Officer who shall have signed any of the Notes shall cease to be such Officer before the Notes so signed shall have been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, or disposed of by the Issuer, such Notes nevertheless may be authenticated and delivered or disposed of as though the person who signed such Notes had not ceased to be such Officer, and any Note may be signed on behalf of the Issuer by such persons as, at the actual date of the execution of such Note, shall be the proper Officers, although at the date of the execution of this Indenture any such person was not such an Officer.
Section 2.05(a) The Issuer shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Issuer designated pursuant to Section 4.02 being herein
. Exchange and Registration of Transfer of Notes; Restrictions on Transfer.
 
sometimes collectively referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Issuer shall provide for the registration of Notes and of transfers of Notes. The Note Register shall be in written form or in any form capable of being exchanged into written form within a reasonably prompt period of time. The Trustee is hereby appointed "" for the purpose of registering Notes and transfers of Notes as herein provided. The Issuer may appoint one or more co-registrars in accordance with Section 4.02.
Note Register
Note Registrar
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Note to the Note Registrar or any co-registrar, and satisfaction of the requirements for such transfer set forth in this Section 2.05, the Issuer shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Notes of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and bearing such restrictive legends as may be required by this Indenture.
Notes may be exchanged for other Notes of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Notes to be exchanged at any such office or agency maintained by the Issuer pursuant to Section 4.02. Whenever any Notes are so surrendered for exchange, the Issuer shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Notes which the Noteholder making the exchange is entitled to receive bearing registration numbers not contemporaneously outstanding.
All Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Issuer, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
All Notes presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, repurchase or conversion shall (if so required by the Issuer or the Note Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Issuer, and the Notes shall be duly executed by the Noteholder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made to any holder for any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes, but the Issuer may require payment by the holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes.
In connection with the redemption of the Notes in part, neither the Trustee nor any Note Registrar shall be required to issue or register the transfer or exchange of (a) any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business
 
fifteen (15) days before any selection of Notes to be redeemed and ending at the close of business on the day of mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, or (b) any Notes or portions thereof called for redemption pursuant to Section 3.02, except the unredeemed portion of any Note redeemed in part.
(b) The following provisions shall apply only to Global Notes:
(i) Each Global Note authenticated under this Indenture shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee thereof and delivered to such Depositary or a nominee thereof or Custodian therefor, and each such Global Note shall constitute a single Note for all purposes of this Indenture.
(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no Global Note may be exchanged in whole or in part for Notes registered, and no transfer of a Global Note in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof unless (1) the Depositary (x) has notified the Issuer that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Note or (y) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor depositary has not been appointed by the Issuer within ninety (90) calendar days, (2) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or (3) the Issuer, in its sole discretion, notifies the Trustee in writing that it no longer wishes to have all the Notes represented by Global Notes. Any Global Note exchanged pursuant to clause (1) or (2) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part and any Global Note exchanged pursuant to clause (3) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Issuer. Any Note issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be a Global Note; that any such Note so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Note.
provided
(iii) Notes issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof pursuant to clause (ii) above shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have an aggregate principal amount equal to that of such Global Note or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear any legends required hereunder. Any Global Note to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee, as Note Registrar. With regard to any Global Note to be exchanged in part, either such Global Note shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as Custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Note, the principal amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an
 
appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery the Note issuable on such exchange to or upon the written order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof.
(iv) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (ii) above, the Issuer shall promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of certificated Notes in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons.
(v) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Issuer, the Trustee and any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Issuer, the Trustee or any agent of the Issuer or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other Person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Note.
Agent Members
(vi) At such time as all interests in a Global Note have been redeemed, repurchased, converted or exchanged for Notes in certificated form, such Global Note shall, upon receipt thereof, be canceled by the Trustee in accordance with standing procedures and instructions existing between the Depositary and the Custodian. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any interest in a Global Note is redeemed, repurchased, converted or exchanged for Notes in certificated form, the principal amount of such Global Note shall, in accordance with the standing procedures and instructions existing between the Depositary and the Custodian, be appropriately reduced, and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note, by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, to reflect such reduction.
(c) Every Note (and all securities issued in exchange therefor or in substitution thereof) shall bear the appropriate legend set forth in this Section 2.05(c) (together with any Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes, collectively, the "") and shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth in this Section 2.05(c) (including those set forth in the legend below) unless such restrictions on transfer shall be waived by written consent of
Restricted Securities
 
the Issuer, and the holder of each such Restricted Security, by such Noteholder's acceptance thereof, agrees to be bound by all such restrictions on transfer. As used in this Section 2.05(c), the term "transfer" means any sale, pledge, loan, transfer or other disposition whatsoever of any Restricted Security or any interest therein.
Any certificate evidencing a Restricted Security shall bear the appropriate legend in substantially the following form, unless such Restricted Security is Common Stock that has been issued upon conversion of the Notes and has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any similar provision then in force, or unless otherwise agreed by the Issuer in writing, with written notice thereof to the Trustee:
For the Notes:
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY, EXCEPT (A) TO THE ISSUER OR A SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER; OR (B) TO A PERSON THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) THAT IS PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ANOTHER QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, ALL IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A (IF AVAILABLE).
For Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes:
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER AGREES (1) THAT IT WILL NOT RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY, EXCEPT (A) TO THE ISSUER OR A SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER; (B) UNDER A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; (C) TO A PERSON THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT)
 
THAT IS PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ANOTHER QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, ALL IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A (IF AVAILABLE); OR (D) UNDER ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT; AND (2) THAT IT WILL, PRIOR TO ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY, FURNISH TO THE TRANSFER AGENT AND THE ISSUER SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS MAY BE REQUIRED TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
(d) The Issuer or any of its Affiliates may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, at any time purchase Notes in the open market, by tender at any price or by private agreement. Any Note purchased by the Issuer or any of its Affiliates (i) after the date that is two years from the latest issuance of the Notes may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be reissued or sold or may be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation or (ii) on or prior to the date in clause (a), shall be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation. Any Notes surrendered for cancellation may not be reissued or resold and shall be canceled promptly.
(e) The Trustee shall have no responsibility or obligation to any Agent Members or any other Person with respect to the accuracy of the books or records, or the acts or omissions, of the Depositary or its nominee or of any participant or member thereof, with respect to any ownership interest in the Notes or with respect to the delivery to any Agent Member or other Person (other than the Depositary) of any notice (including any notice of redemption) or the payment of any amount, under or with respect to such Notes. All notices and communications to be given to the Noteholders and all payments to be made to Noteholders under the Notes shall be given or made only to or upon the order of the registered Noteholders (which shall be the Depositary or its nominee in the case of a Global Note). The rights of beneficial owners in any Global Note shall be exercised only through the Depositary subject to the customary procedures of the Depository. The Trustee may rely and shall be fully protected in relying upon information furnished by the Depositary with respect to its Agent Members.
The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note (including any transfers between or among Agent Members in any Global Note) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when
 
expressly required by, the terms of this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
Section 2.06In case any Note shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Issuer in its discretion may execute, and upon its written request the Trustee or an authenticating agent appointed by the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, a new Note, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Note, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Note so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case, the applicant for a substituted Note shall furnish to the Issuer, to the Trustee and, if applicable, to such authenticating agent such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless for any loss, liability, cost or expense caused by or connected with such substitution, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Issuer, to the Trustee and, if applicable, to such authenticating agent evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Note and of the ownership thereof.
. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Notes.
Following receipt by the Trustee or such authenticating agent, as the case may be, of satisfactory security or indemnity and evidence, as described in the preceding paragraph, the Trustee or such authenticating agent may authenticate any such substituted Note and make available for delivery such Note. Upon the issuance of any substituted Note, the Issuer may require the payment by the holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses connected therewith. In case any Note which has matured or is about to mature or has been called for redemption or has been properly tendered for repurchase on a Change in Control Repurchase Date (and not withdrawn), as the case may be, or is to be converted pursuant to this Indenture, shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Issuer may, instead of issuing a substitute Note, pay or authorize the payment of or authorize the conversion of the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Note), as the case may be, if the applicant for such payment or conversion shall furnish to the Issuer, to the Trustee and, if applicable, to such authenticating agent such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless for any loss, liability, cost or expense caused by or in connection with such substitution, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Issuer, the Trustee and, if applicable, any Paying Agent or Conversion Agent evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Note and of the ownership thereof.
Every substitute Note issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2.06 by virtue of the fact that any Note is destroyed, lost or stolen shall constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Issuer and any Subsidiary Guarantor,
 
whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be found at any time, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of (but shall be subject to all the limitations set forth in) this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Notes duly issued hereunder. To the extent permitted by law, all Notes shall be held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement, payment, exchange, redemption, repurchase or conversion of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes and shall preclude any and all other rights or remedies notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement, payment, exchange, redemption, repurchase or conversion of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
Section 2.07Pending the preparation of Notes in certificated form, the Issuer may execute and the Trustee or an authenticating agent appointed by the Trustee shall, upon the written request of the Issuer, authenticate and deliver temporary Notes (printed or lithographed). Temporary Notes shall be issuable in any authorized denomination, and substantially in the form of the Notes in certificated form, but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Notes, all as may be determined by the Issuer. Every such temporary Note shall be executed by the Issuer and authenticated by the Trustee or such authenticating agent upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with the same effect, as the Notes in certificated form. Without unreasonable delay, the Issuer shall execute and deliver to the Trustee or such authenticating agent Notes in certificated form and thereupon any or all temporary Notes may be surrendered in exchange therefor, at any office or agency maintained by the Issuer pursuant to Section 4.02 and the Trustee or such authenticating agent shall authenticate and make available for delivery in exchange for such temporary Notes an equal aggregate principal amount of Notes in certificated form. Such exchange shall be made by the Issuer at its own expense and without any charge therefor. Until so exchanged, the temporary Notes shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same limitations under this Indenture as Notes in certificated form authenticated and delivered hereunder.
. Temporary Notes.
Section 2.08All Notes surrendered for the purpose of payment, redemption, repurchase, conversion, exchange or registration of transfer shall, if surrendered to the Issuer or any paying agent to whom Notes may be presented for payment (the "") or the Conversion Agent, which shall initially be the Trustee, or any Note Registrar, be surrendered to the Trustee and promptly canceled by it or, if surrendered to the Trustee, shall be promptly canceled by it and no Notes shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture. The Trustee shall dispose of such canceled Notes in accordance with its customary procedures. If the Issuer shall acquire any of the Notes, such acquisition shall not operate as a
. Cancellation of Notes.
Paying Agent
 
redemption, repurchase or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Notes unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
Section 2.09The Issuer in issuing the Notes may use "" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Noteholders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Issuer shall promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "" numbers.
. CUSIP Numbers.
CUSIP
CUSIP
CUSIP
Section 3.01The Issuer shall have the right to redeem the Notes on the terms set forth in this Section 3.01 in order to preserve its status as a real estate investment trust. If the Issuer determines it is necessary to redeem the Notes in order to preserve its status as a real estate investment trust, the Issuer may, upon the notice set forth in Section 3.02, redeem the Notes for cash, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon to the Redemption Date; provided that, in connection with any such redemption, the Issuer shall provide the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing that the Board of Directors has, in good faith, made the determination that it is necessary to redeem the Notes in order to preserve the Issuer's status as a real estate investment trust.
. Optional Redemption of Notes.
Other than as set forth in the preceding paragraph, the Notes shall not be subject to redemption at the option of the Issuer prior the Stated Maturity thereof.
Section 3.02In case the Issuer shall desire to exercise the right to redeem all or, as the case may be, any part of the Notes pursuant to Section 3.01, it shall fix a date for redemption and it or, at its written request received by the Trustee not fewer than five (5) Business Days prior (or such shorter period of time as may be acceptable to the Trustee) to the date the notice of redemption is to be mailed, the Trustee in the name of and at the expense of the Issuer, shall mail or cause to be mailed a notice of such redemption not fewer than thirty (30) calendar days nor more than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the Redemption Date to each holder of Notes so to be redeemed in whole or in part at its last address as the same appears on the Note Register; provided that if the Issuer makes such request of the Trustee, the text of the notice shall be prepared by the Issuer. Such mailing shall be by first class
. Notice of Optional Redemption; Selection of Notes.
 
mail. The notice, if mailed in the manner herein provided, shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice. In any case, failure to give such notice by mail or any defect in the notice to the holder of any Note designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Note.
Each such notice of redemption shall specify: (i) the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be redeemed, (ii) the CUSIP number or numbers of the Notes being redeemed, (iii) the date fixed for redemption (which shall be a Business Day), (iv) the redemption price at which Notes are to be redeemed, (v) the place or places of payment and that payment shall be made upon presentation and surrender of such Notes, (iv) that interest accrued and unpaid to the date fixed for redemption shall be paid as specified in said notice, and that on and after said date interest thereon or on the portion thereof to be redeemed shall cease to accrue, (vii) that the holder has a right to convert the Notes called for redemption, (viii) the Conversion Rate on the date of such notice and (ix) the time and date on which the right to convert such Notes or portions thereof pursuant to this Indenture shall expire. If fewer than all the Notes are to be redeemed, the notice of redemption shall identify the Notes to be redeemed (including CUSIP numbers, if any). In case any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and shall state that, on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof shall be issued.
Whenever any Notes are to be redeemed, the Issuer shall give the Trustee written notice of the Redemption Date, together with an Officers' Certificate as to the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be redeemed, not fewer than forty-five (45) calendar days (or such shorter period of time as may be acceptable to the Trustee) prior to the Redemption Date.
On or prior to the Redemption Date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in this Section 3.02, the Issuer shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or, if the Issuer is acting as its own Paying Agent, set aside, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 4.04) an amount of money in immediately available funds sufficient to redeem on the Redemption Date all the Notes (or portions thereof) so called for redemption (other than those theretofore surrendered for conversion) at the appropriate redemption price, together with unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon to the Redemption Date; provided that if such payment is made on the Redemption Date, it must be received by the Paying Agent, by 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date. The Issuer shall be entitled to retain any interest, yield or gain on amounts deposited with the Paying Agent pursuant to this Section 3.02 in excess of amounts required hereunder to pay the redemption price and accrued interest to the Redemption Date. If any Note called for redemption is converted pursuant hereto prior to such Redemption Date, any money deposited with the Paying Agent or so segregated and held in
 
trust for the redemption of such Note shall be paid to the Issuer or, if then held by the Issuer, shall be discharged from such trust.
If less than all of the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the Notes or portions thereof of the Global Note or the Notes in certificated form to be redeemed (in principal amounts of $1,000 or multiples thereof) on a pro rata basis or by another method the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. If any Note selected for redemption in part is submitted for conversion in part after such selection, the portion of such Note submitted for conversion shall be deemed (so far as may be possible) to be the portion to be selected for redemption. The Notes (or portions thereof) so selected for redemption shall be deemed duly selected for redemption for all purposes hereof, notwithstanding that any such Note is submitted for conversion in part before the mailing of the notice of redemption.
Upon any redemption of less than all of the outstanding Notes, the Issuer and the Trustee may (but need not), solely for purposes of determining the pro rata allocation among such Notes that are outstanding at the time of redemption, treat as outstanding any Notes surrendered for conversion during the period in which Notes are selected for redemption.
Section 3.03If notice of redemption has been given as provided in Section 3.02, the Notes or portion of Notes with respect to which such notice has been given shall, unless converted pursuant to the terms hereof, become due and payable on the date fixed for redemption at the place or places stated in such notice at the redemption price, plus unpaid interest, if any accrued thereon to the Redemption Date, and unless the Issuer shall default in the payment of the amounts owing on the Notes upon such redemption, interest on the Notes or portion of Notes so called for redemption shall cease to accrue on and after such date and, except as provided in Section 7.05 and Section 11.02, the Notes shall cease to be outstanding and cease to be entitled to any benefit or security under this Indenture, and the holders thereof shall have no right in respect of such Notes except the right to receive the redemption price thereof plus unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon to the Redemption Date. On presentation and surrender of such Notes at a place of payment in said notice specified, the said Notes or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by the Issuer at the redemption price, together with unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon to the Redemption Date.
. Payment of Notes Called for Redemption by the Issuer.
Upon presentation of any Note redeemed in part only, the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Issuer, a new Note or Notes, of authorized denominations, in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Note so presented.
 
Notes and portions of Notes that are to be redeemed pursuant to this Article 3 shall be convertible by the Holder thereof until 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day immediately preceding the Redemption Date, unless the Issuer shall fail to pay the redemption price.
Section 3.04There shall be no sinking fund provided for the Notes.
. Sinking Fund.
Section 3.05(a) If there shall occur a Change in Control at any time prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes, then each Noteholder shall have the right to require the Issuer to repurchase its Notes for cash, in whole or in part (in principal amounts of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof), on a date (the "") specified by the Issuer (which date shall be not earlier than fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days after the Issuer Repurchase Notice Date related to such Change in Control) at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being repurchased, plus unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon to the Change in Control Repurchase Date (such amount, the "").
. Repurchase at Option of Holders Upon a Change in Control.
Change in Control Repurchase Date
Change in Control Purchase Price
(b) Within 20 days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Issuer shall mail or cause to be mailed to all holders of record on the date of the Change in Control (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law) an Issuer Repurchase Notice as set forth in Section 3.07 with respect to such Change in Control. The Issuer shall also deliver a copy of the Issuer Repurchase Notice to the Trustee and the Paying Agent at such time as it is mailed to Noteholders. In addition to the mailing of such Issuer Repurchase Notice, the Issuer shall disseminate a press release through Dow Jones & Company, Inc., Bloomberg Business News or a substantially similar financial news organization announcing the occurrence of such Change in Control and publish such information in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or on the Issuer's Web site, or through such other public medium as the Issuer shall deem appropriate at such time. The failure to issue any such press release or any defect therein shall not affect the validity of the Issuer Repurchase Notice or any proceedings for the repurchase of any Note which any Noteholder may elect to have the Issuer redeem as provided in this Section 3.05.
No failure of the Issuer to give the foregoing notices and no defect therein shall limit the Noteholders' repurchase rights or affect the validity of the proceedings for the repurchase of the Notes pursuant to this Section 3.05.
(c) In order to exercise its repurchase right, the holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change in Control Repurchase Date, a written notice of repurchase (the ""). Such Repurchase Notice shall state: (i) the certificate
Repurchase Notice
 
number (if the Note is in certificated form) of the Note which the holder shall deliver to be repurchased, (ii) the portion of the principal amount of the Note which the holder shall deliver to be repurchased, in multiples of $1,000, provided that the remaining principal amount of Notes is in an authorized denomination and (iii) that such Note shall be repurchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Note and in this Indenture. Any Repurchase Notice provided in respect of a beneficial interest in a Global Note shall be required to comply with the applicable procedures of the Depositary.
(d) The Issuer, if so requested, shall repurchase from the holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.05, a portion of a Note, if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the repurchase of all of a Note also apply to the repurchase of such portion of such Note.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Notes may be repurchased by the Issuer pursuant to this Section 3.05 if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price for the Notes to be repurchased).
(f) The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Issuer of the receipt by it of any Repurchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof. All questions as to the validity, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of any Note for repurchase shall be determined by the Issuer, whose determination shall be final and binding absent manifest error.
(g) Payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price for a Note for which a Repurchase Notice has been delivered and not withdrawn is conditioned upon book-entry transfer or delivery of the Notes, together with necessary endorsements, to the Paying Agent. Such Change in Control Purchase Price shall be paid to such holder, subject to receipt of funds and/or Notes by the Paying Agent, within two (2) Business Days following the later of (x) the Change in Control Repurchase Date with respect to such Note (provided the holder has satisfied the conditions in this Section 3.05) and (y) the time of book-entry transfer or delivery of such Note or beneficial interest therein to the Paying Agent by the holder thereof.
Section 3.06
. [Intentionally Omitted].
Section 3.07
. Issuer Repurchase Notice.
(a) In connection with any repurchase of Notes, the Issuer shall, on the applicable Issuer Repurchase Notice Date, give written notice to holders (with a copy to the Trustee) setting forth the information specified in this Section 3.07 (in either case, the "").
Issuer Repurchase Notice
 
Each Issuer Repurchase Notice shall:
(i) state the Change in Control Purchase Price and the amount of unpaid interest, if any, per $1,000 principal amount of Notes accrued thereon to the Change in Control Repurchase Date;
(ii) state the Change in Control Repurchase Date;
(iii) state the circumstances constituting the Change in Control;
(iv) state that holders must exercise their right to elect to repurchase prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change in Control Repurchase Date;
(v) include a form of Repurchase Notice;
(vi) state the name and address of the Trustee and the Paying Agent and, if the Notes are then convertible (including in connection with a Change in Control), state the name and address of the Conversion Agent;
(vii) state that Notes must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Change in Control Purchase Price and accrued and unpaid interest;
(viii) state that a holder may withdraw its Repurchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change in Control Repurchase Date by delivering a valid written notice of withdrawal in accordance with Section 3.08;
(ix) if the Notes are then convertible (including in connection with a Change in Control), state that Notes as to which a Repurchase Notice has been given may be converted from and including the Effective Date of such Change in Control up to and including the earlier of the 30th Business Day following such Effective Date and the second Business Day prior the Stated Maturity of the Notes provided the Repurchase Notice is withdrawn by the holder in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
(x) state that, unless the Issuer defaults in making payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price, interest on Notes in respect of which a Repurchase Notice shall have been submitted and not withdrawn shall cease to accrue on and after the Change in Control Repurchase Date; and
(xi) state the CUSIP number of the Notes, if CUSIP numbers are then in use.
 
An Issuer Repurchase Notice may be given by the Issuer or, at the Issuer's request, the Trustee shall give such Issuer Repurchase Notice in the Issuer's name and at the Issuer's expense; that the text of the Issuer Repurchase Notice shall be prepared by the Issuer.
provided
If any of the Notes is represented by a Global Note, then the Issuer shall modify such notice to the extent necessary to accord with the applicable procedures of the Depositary that apply to the repurchase of Global Notes.
(b) The Issuer shall, to the extent applicable, comply with the provisions of Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act that may be applicable at the time of the repurchase of the Notes, file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act and comply with all other applicable federal and state securities laws in connection with the repurchase of the Notes.
Section 3.08A Repurchase Notice may be withdrawn, in whole or in part, by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent at any time prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to a Change in Control Repurchase Date. Such notice of withdrawal must specify:
. Withdrawal of Repurchase Notice.
(a) the name of the holder;
(b) the certificate number(s) of all withdrawn Notes in certificated form;
(c) the principal amount of Notes with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, which must be an integral multiple of $1,000; and
(d) the principal amount of Notes, if any, which remains subject to the original Repurchase Notice, which must be an integral multiple of $1,000.
Any withdrawal notice provided in respect of a beneficial interest in a Global Note shall be required to comply with the applicable procedures of the Depositary.
Section 3.09(a) Prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Change in Control Repurchase Date, the Issuer shall deposit with the Paying Agent or, if the Issuer is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 4.04 an amount of cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on the Change in Control Repurchase Date), sufficient to pay the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof that are to be repurchased as of the Change in Control Repurchase Date.
. Deposit of Repurchase Price.
 
(b) If on the Change in Control Repurchase Date the Paying Agent holds money sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price of the Notes that holders have elected to require the Issuer to repurchase in accordance with Section 3.05, then on and after the Change in Control Repurchase Date such Notes shall cease to be outstanding, interest shall cease to accrue with respect to such Notes and all other rights of the holders of such Notes shall terminate, other than the right to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price. Such will be the case whether or not book-entry transfer of the Note to the Paying Agent is made or whether or not Notes in certificated form, together with necessary endorsements, are delivered to the Paying Agent.
Section 3.10Upon presentation of any Note repurchased only in part, the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery to the holder thereof, at the expense of the Issuer, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination, in aggregate principal amount equal to the unrepurchased portion of the Notes presented.
. Notes Repurchased in Part.
Section 3.11The Issuer may arrange for a third party to purchase Notes for which the Issuer has received a valid Repurchase Notice that has not been properly withdrawn, in the manner and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth herein and in the Notes. If a third party purchases any Notes under such circumstances, then interest shall continue to accrue on the Notes and such Notes shall continue to be outstanding after the Change in Control Repurchase Date for all purposes of the Indenture and shall be fungible with all other Notes then outstanding.
. Third Party Purchase.
Section 3.12Subject to Section 11.04, the Paying Agent shall return to the Issuer any cash that remains unclaimed, together with interest, if any, thereon, held by them for the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price; that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Issuer pursuant to Section 3.09 exceeds the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price of the Notes or portions thereof which the Issuer is obligated to repurchase as of the Change in Control Repurchase Date, then, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Issuer, promptly after the second Business Day following the Change in Control Repurchase Date, the Paying Agent shall return any such excess to the Issuer, together with interest, if any, thereon.
. Repayment to the Issuer.
provided
Section 4.01The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid when due the principal of (including the redemption price upon redemption or the
. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
 
Change in Control Purchase Price upon repurchase, in each case pursuant to Article 3), and interest on, each of the Notes at the places, at the respective times and in the manner provided herein and in the Notes.
Section 4.02The Issuer shall maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, where the Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange or for presentation for payment or for conversion, redemption or repurchase and where notices and demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Issuer shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency not designated or appointed by the Trustee. If at any time the Issuer shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office.
. Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Issuer may also from time to time designate co-registrars and one or more offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations. The Issuer shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
The Issuer hereby initially designates the Trustee as Paying Agent, Note Registrar, Custodian and Conversion Agent and the Corporate Trust Office shall be considered as one such office or agency of the Issuer for each of the aforesaid purposes.
So long as the Trustee is the Note Registrar, the Trustee agrees to mail, or cause to be mailed, the notices set forth in Section 7.10(a) and the third paragraph of Section 7.11. If co-registrars have been appointed in accordance with this Section, the Trustee shall mail such notices only to the Issuer and the holders of Notes it can identify from its records.
Section 4.03The Issuer, whenever necessary to avoid or fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee, shall appoint, upon the terms and conditions and otherwise as provided in Section 7.10, a Trustee, so that there shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder.
. Appointments to Fill Vacancies in Trustee's Office.
Section 4.04
. Provisions as to Paying Agent.
(a) If the Issuer shall appoint a Paying Agent other than the Trustee, or if the Trustee shall appoint such a Paying Agent, the Issuer shall cause such Paying Agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section 4.04:
 
(i) that it shall hold all sums held by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of, or interest on, the Notes (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Issuer or by any other obligor on the Notes) in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Notes;
(ii) that it shall give the Trustee notice of any failure by the Issuer (or by any other obligor on the Notes) to make any payment of the principal of, or interest on, the Notes when the same shall be due and payable; and
(iii) that at any time during the continuance of an Event of Default, upon request of the Trustee, it shall forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust.
The Issuer shall, on or before each due date of the principal of, or interest on, the Notes, deposit with the Paying Agent a sum (in funds which are immediately available on the due date for such payment) sufficient to pay such principal, or interest and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Issuer shall promptly notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action; that if such deposit is made on the due date, such deposit shall be received by the Paying Agent by 11:00 a.m. New York City time, on such date.
provided
(b) If the Issuer shall act as its own Paying Agent, it shall, on or before each due date of the principal of, or interest on, the Notes, set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Notes a sum sufficient to pay such principal and interest so becoming due and shall promptly notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action and of any failure by the Issuer (or any other obligor under the Notes) to make any payment of the principal of, or interest on, the Notes when the same shall become due and payable.
(c) Anything in this Section 4.04 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Issuer may, at any time, for any reason, pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Issuer or any Paying Agent hereunder as required by this Section 4.04, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the trusts herein contained and upon such payment by the Issuer or any Paying Agent to the Trustee, the Issuer or such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such sums.
(d) Anything in this Section 4.04 to the contrary notwithstanding, the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section 4.04 is subject to Section 11.02 and Section 11.03.
The Trustee shall not be responsible for the actions of any other Paying Agents (including the Issuer if acting as its own Paying Agent) and shall have no control of any funds held by such other Paying Agents.
 
Section 4.05Subject to Article 10 and 14, the Issuer shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its, and each Subsidiary Guarantor's, existence and rights (charter and statutory); provided that the Issuer shall not be required to preserve any such right if the Issuer shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of its business and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Noteholders.
. Existence.
Section 4.06
. [Intentionally Omitted].
Section 4.07The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall, during any period in which it is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) under the Exchange Act, make available to any holder or beneficial holder of Notes or any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof which continue to be Restricted Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of Notes or such shares of Common Stock designated by such holder or beneficial holder, the information required pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act upon the request of any holder or beneficial holder of the Notes or such shares of Common Stock, all to the extent required to enable such holder or beneficial holder to sell its Notes or shares of Common Stock without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemption provided by Rule 144A. The availability of the materials required to be furnished pursuant to this Section 4.07 on the Commission's Web site or on the Issuer's Web site shall be deemed to satisfy the delivery obligations set forth in this Section 4.07.
. Rule 144A Information Requirement.
Section 4.08The Issuer covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law or other law which would prohibit or forgive the Issuer from paying all or any portion of the principal of or interest on the Notes as contemplated herein, wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture and the Issuer (to the extent it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
. Stay, Extension and Usury Laws.
Section 4.09The Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee, within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after the end of each fiscal year of the Issuer, a certificate signed by any two Officers, one of whom must be the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, principal investment officer or the Treasurer of the Issuer, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signer thereof the Issuer is in
. Compliance Certificate.
 
default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Issuer shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and the status thereof of which the signer may have knowledge.
The Issuer shall deliver to the Trustee, promptly upon becoming aware of (i) any default in the performance or observance of any covenant, agreement or condition contained in this Indenture, or (ii) any Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying with particularity such default or Event of Default and further stating what action the Issuer has taken, is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
Any notice required to be given under this Section 4.09 shall be delivered to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office.
Section 4.10In the event that the Issuer is required to pay Additional Interest to holders of Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Issuer shall provide written notice ("") to the Trustee of its obligation to pay Additional Interest no later than fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the proposed payment date for Additional Interest, and the Additional Interest Notice shall set forth the amount of Additional Interest to be paid by the Issuer on such payment date. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any holder of Notes to determine the Additional Interest, or with respect to the nature, extent or calculation of the amount of Additional Interest when made, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the Additional Interest.
. Additional Interest Notice.
Additional Interest Notice
Section 5.01The Issuer covenants and agrees that it shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee, semi-annually, not more than fifteen (15) calendar days after each January 1 and July 1 in each year beginning with January 1, 2007, and at such other times as the Trustee may reasonably request in writing, within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt by the Issuer of any such request (or such lesser time as the Trustee may reasonably request in order to enable it to timely provide any notice to be provided by it hereunder), a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the holders of Notes as of a date not more than fifteen (15) calendar days (or such other date as the Trustee may reasonably request in order to so provide any such notices) prior to the time such information is furnished, except that no such list need be furnished by the Issuer to the Trustee so long as the Trustee is acting as the sole Note Registrar.
. Noteholders' Lists.
 
Section 5.02
. Preservation and Disclosure of Lists.
(a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the holders of Notes contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 or maintained by the Trustee in its capacity as Note Registrar or co-registrar in respect of the Notes, if so acting. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
(b) The rights of Noteholders to communicate with other holders of Notes with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Notes, and the corresponding rights and duties of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
(c) Every Noteholder agrees with the Issuer and the Trustee that neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of holders of Notes made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 5.03(a) Within sixty (60) calendar days after May 15 of each year commencing with the year 2007, the Trustee shall transmit to holders of Notes such reports dated as of May 15 of the year in which such reports are made concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. In the event that no events have occurred under the applicable sections of the Trust Indenture Act the Trustee shall be under no duty or obligation to provide such reports.
. Reports by Trustee.
(b) A copy of such report shall, at the time of such transmission to holders of Notes, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange and automated quotation system, if any, upon which the Notes are listed and with the Issuer. The Issuer shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing if the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or automated quotation system or delisted therefrom.
Section 5.04The Issuer shall file with the Trustee, upon request, within 15 days after the Issuer is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may prescribe) which the Issuer is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. If the Issuer is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of those sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission such reports as may be prescribed by the Commission at such time. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of
. Reports by Issuer.
 
any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Issuer's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on an Officers' Certificate). The availability of the materials required to be furnished pursuant to this Section 5.04 on the Commission's Web site or on the Issuer's Web site shall be deemed to satisfy the delivery obligations set forth in this Section 5.04.
Section 6.01"," wherever used herein, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
. Events of Default.
Event of Default
(a) default in the payment of any principal amount or any redemption price or Change in Control Purchase Price due with respect to the Notes when the same shall be due and payable, whether at maturity, upon redemption or repurchase, by acceleration or otherwise; or
(b) default in the payment of interest (including Additional Interest, if any) under the Notes as and when the same shall be due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of thirty (30) calendar days; or
(c) default in the delivery when due of the amounts owing upon conversion, whether due in cash or shares of the Issuer's Common Stock, on the terms set forth herein and in the Notes, upon exercise of a holder's conversion right in accordance with Article 13, and continuance of such default for a period of ten (10) calendar days; or
(d) failure by the Issuer to provide an Issuer Repurchase Notice after the occurrence of a Change in Control or as required in connection with a Public Acquirer Change in Control within the time period, required by Section 3.05(b) and Section 13.13(h), respectively; or
(e) failure on the part of the Issuer to comply with any other term, covenant or agreement in the Notes or in this Indenture (other than a covenant or agreement a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section 6.01 specifically dealt with) and such failure continues for a period of sixty (60) calendar days after the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the Issuer to remedy the same, shall have been given to the Issuer by the Trustee, or to the Issuer and a Responsible Officer of the Trustee by the holders of
 
not less than twenty-five percent (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding; or
(f) default resulting in acceleration of other indebtedness of the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor for borrowed money where the aggregate principal amount with respect to which the acceleration has occurred exceeds $50.0 million and such indebtedness has not been discharged, or such acceleration has not been annulled or rescinded, within a period of ten (10) calendar days following receipt by the Issuer of written notice of such failure by the Trustee or by holders of not less than twenty-five percent (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding, specifying the default and requiring that the indebtedness be discharged or the acceleration be rescinded or annulled; or
(g) failure by the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor to pay final judgments entered by a court or courts of competent jurisdiction aggregating in excess of $50.0 million (exclusive of insurance), which judgments are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of sixty (60) calendar days after such judgments become final and non-appealable; or
(h) the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary of the Issuer pursuant to or under or within meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
(i) commences a voluntary case or proceeding seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to it or its debts or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property; or
(ii) consents to any such relief or to the appointment of or taking possession by any such official in an involuntary case or other proceeding commenced against it; or
(iii) consents to the appointment of a custodian of it or for all or substantially of its property; or
(iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or
(i) an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary of the Issuer seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to it or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, and such involuntary case or other proceeding shall remain undismissed and unstayed for a period of sixty (60) consecutive calendar days; or
 
(j) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(i) is for relief against the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary of the Issuer in an involuntary case or proceeding; or
(ii) appoints a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary of the Issuer or any substantial part of their respective properties; or
(iii) orders the liquidation of the Issuer or any Significant Subsidiary of the Issuer;
and, in each case in this clause (j), the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for sixty (60) consecutive calendar days; or
(k) Unless otherwise permitted pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, any Subsidiary Guarantee of any Significant Subsidiary of the Issuer shall be held in any judicial proceeding to be unenforceable or invalid or shall cease for any reason to be in full force and effect, or any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Significant Subsidiary, or any Person acting on its behalf, shall deny or disaffirm its obligations under the Subsidiary Guarantee.
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(h), 6.01(i) and 6.01(j)) with respect to the Issuer) shall occur and be continuing, unless the principal of all of the Notes shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the holders of at least twenty-five percent (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by notice in writing to the Issuer (and to the Trustee if given by Noteholders), may declare the principal of, and interest (including Additional Interest, if any) accrued and unpaid on, all the Notes to be immediately due and payable, and upon any such declaration the same shall be immediately due and payable.
If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(h), 6.01(i) or 6.01(j) occurs with respect to the Issuer, the principal of, and interest (including Additional Interest, if any) accrued and unpaid on, all the outstanding Notes shall be immediately and automatically due and payable without necessity of further action.
If, at any time after the principal of and interest on the outstanding Notes shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the monies due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding on behalf of the holders of all of the Notes then outstanding, by written notice to the Issuer and to the Trustee, may waive all
 
defaults or Events of Default and rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences subject to Section 6.07 if: (a) such rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; (b) interest on overdue installments of interest (including Additional Interest, if any) (to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful) and on overdue principal, which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration, has been paid; (c) the Issuer has paid the Trustee its reasonable compensation and reimbursed the Trustee for its expenses, disbursements and advances pursuant to Section 7.06; and (d) all Events of Default, other than the nonpayment of the principal amount and any accrued and unpaid interest that has become due solely because of such acceleration, have been cured or waived. No such rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or Event of Default, or shall impair any right consequent thereon. The Issuer shall notify in writing a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, promptly upon becoming aware thereof, of any Event of Default, as provided in Section 4.09.
In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such waiver or rescission and annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the holders of Notes, and the Trustee shall be restored respectively to their several positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the holders of Notes, and the Trustee shall continue as though no such proceeding had been taken.
Section 6.02The Issuer covenants that in the case of an Event of Default pursuant to Section 6.01(a) or 6.01(b), upon demand of the Trustee, the Issuer shall pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the holders of the Notes, (i) the whole amount that then shall be due and payable on all such Notes for principal or interest, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon the overdue installments of accrued and unpaid interest at the rate borne by the Notes from the required payment date and, (ii) in addition thereto, any amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.06. Until such demand by the Trustee, the Issuer may pay the principal of and interest on the Notes to the registered holders, whether or not the Notes are overdue.
. Payments of Notes on Default; Suit Therefor.
In case the Issuer shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any actions or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Issuer or any other obligor on the Notes and collect in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Issuer or any
 
other obligor on the Notes wherever situated the monies adjudged or decreed to be payable.
In case, after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, there shall be pending proceedings for the bankruptcy or for the reorganization of the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor which is a Significant Subsidiary under any Bankruptcy Law, or any other applicable law, or in case a receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official shall have been appointed for or taken possession of the Issuer or such Subsidiary Guarantor, the property of the Issuer or such Subsidiary Guarantor, or in the case of any other judicial proceedings relative to the Issuer or such Subsidiary Guarantor, or to the creditors or property of the Issuer or such Subsidiary Guarantor, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of the Notes shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand pursuant to the provisions of this Section 6.02, shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise, to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount of principal and accrued and unpaid interest in respect of the Notes, and, in case of any judicial proceedings, to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and of the Noteholders allowed in such judicial proceedings relative to the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor which is a Significant Subsidiary, its or their creditors, or its or their property, and to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims, and to distribute the same after the deduction of any amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.06, and to take any other action with respect to such claims, including participating as a member of any official committee of creditors, as it reasonably deems necessary or advisable, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization, liquidator, custodian or similar official is hereby authorized by each of the Noteholders to make such payments to the Trustee, and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Noteholders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for reasonable compensation, expenses, advances and disbursements, including counsel fees and expenses incurred by it up to the date of such distribution. To the extent that such payment of reasonable compensation, expenses, advances and disbursements out of the estate in any such proceedings shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, monies, securities and other property which the holders of the Notes may be entitled to receive in such proceedings, whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise.
All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the Notes, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Notes, or the production thereof at any trial or other proceeding relative
 
thereto, and any such suit or proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the holders of the Notes.
In any proceedings brought by the Trustee (and in any proceedings involving the interpretation of any provision of this Indenture to which the Trustee shall be a party), the Trustee shall be held to represent all the holders of the Notes, and it shall not be necessary to make any holders of the Notes parties to any such proceedings.
Section 6.03Any monies collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article 6, shall be applied, in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee for the distribution of such monies, upon presentation of the several Notes, and stamping thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof, if fully paid:
. Application of Monies Collected by Trustee.
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.06;
SECOND: In case the principal of the outstanding Notes shall not have become due and be unpaid, to the payment of accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes in default in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest, with interest (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) as provided in Section 6.02 upon the overdue installments of interest at the annual rate borne by the Notes, such payments to be made ratably to the Persons entitled thereto;
THIRD: In case the principal of the outstanding Notes shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise, and be unpaid to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid, upon the Notes for principal and interest, with interest on the overdue principal and (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon overdue installments of accrued and unpaid interest, as provided in Section 6.02, and in case such monies shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amounts so due and unpaid upon the Notes, then to the payment of such principal and interest without preference or priority of principal over interest, or of interest over principal, or of any installment of interest over any other installment of interest, or of any Note over any other Note, ratably according to the aggregate amounts of such principal and accrued and unpaid interest; and
FOURTH: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Issuer or any other Person lawfully entitled thereto.
 
Section 6.04No holder of any Note shall have any right by virtue of or by reference to any provision of this Indenture to institute any suit, action or proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver, trustee, liquidator, custodian or other similar official, or for any other remedy hereunder, except in the case of a default in the payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes, unless (a) such holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of an Event of Default and of the continuance thereof, as hereinbefore provided, (b) the holders of at least twenty-five percent (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own name as Trustee hereunder and shall have offered to the Trustee such reasonable security or indemnity as it may require against the costs, liabilities or expenses to be incurred therein or thereby, (c) the Trustee for sixty (60) calendar days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have neglected or refused to institute any such action, suit or proceeding and (d) no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.07; it being understood and intended, and being expressly covenanted by the taker and holder of every Note with every other taker and holder and the Trustee, that no one or more holders of Notes shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of or by reference to any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other holder of Notes, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such holder, or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all holders of Notes (except as otherwise provided herein). For the protection and enforcement of this Section 6.04, each and every Noteholder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.
. Proceedings by Noteholder.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture and any provision of any Note, the right of any holder of any Note to receive payment of the principal of (including the redemption price or Change in Control Purchase Price upon redemption or repurchase pursuant to Article 3) and accrued interest on such Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Note or in the event of redemption or repurchase, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates against the Issuer shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such holder.
Anything contained in this Indenture or the Notes to the contrary notwithstanding, the holder of any Note, without the consent of either the Trustee or the holder of any other Note, in its own behalf and for its own benefit, may enforce, and may institute and maintain any proceeding suitable to enforce, its rights of conversion as provided herein.
Section 6.05In case of an Event of Default, the Trustee may, in its discretion, proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it
. Proceedings by Trustee.
 
by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as are necessary to protect and enforce any of such rights, either by suit in equity or by action at law or by proceeding in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.
Section 6.06All powers and remedies given by this Article 6 to the Trustee or to the Noteholders shall, to the extent permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive of any thereof or of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the holders of the Notes, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture, and no delay or omission of the Trustee or of any holder of any of the Notes to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default or Event of Default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power, or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or any acquiescence therein, and, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy given by this Article 6 or by law to the Trustee or to the Noteholders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Noteholders.
. Remedies Cumulative and Continuing.
Section 6.07The holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee; provided that (a) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, (b) the Trustee may take any other action which is not inconsistent with such direction, (c) the Trustee may decline to take any action that would benefit some Noteholder to the detriment of other Noteholders and (d) the Trustee may decline to take any action that would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
. Direction of Proceedings and Waiver of Defaults by Majority of Noteholders.
The holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may, on behalf of the holders of all of the Notes, waive any past default or Event of Default hereunder and its consequences except (i) a default in the payment of the principal of, or interest (including Additional Interest, if any) on, the Notes, (ii) a failure by the Issuer to convert any Notes as required by this Indenture, (iii) a default in the payment of the redemption price on the Redemption Date pursuant to Article 3, (iv) a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price on the Change in Control Repurchase Date pursuant to Article 3 or (v) a default in respect of a covenant or provisions hereof which under Article 9 cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the holders of all Notes then outstanding or each Note affected thereby.
 
Upon any such waiver, the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors, the Trustee and the holders of the Notes shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Whenever any default or Event of Default hereunder shall have been waived as permitted by this Section 6.07, said default or Event of Default shall for all purposes of the Notes and this Indenture be deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 6.08The Trustee shall, within ninety (90) calendar days after a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has knowledge of the occurrence of a default, mail to all Noteholders, as the names and addresses of such holders appear upon the Note Register, notice of all defaults known to a Responsible Officer, unless such defaults shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice; provided that except in the case of default in the payment of the principal of, or interest (including Additional Interest, if any) on, any of the Notes, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Noteholders.
. Notice of Defaults.
Section 6.09All parties to this Indenture agree, and each holder of any Note by its acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may, in its discretion, require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; provided that the provisions of this Section 6.09 (to the extent permitted by law) shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Noteholder, or group of Noteholders, holding in the aggregate more than ten percent (10%) in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding determined in accordance with Section 8.04, or to any suit instituted by any Noteholder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, or interest on, any Note on or after the due date expressed in such Note or to any suit for the enforcement of the right to convert any Note in accordance with the provisions of Article 13.
. Undertaking to Pay Costs.
 
Section 7.01The Trustee, prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default and after the curing or waiver of all Events of Default which may have occurred, undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture. In case an Event of Default has occurred (which has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of its own affairs.
. Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee.
No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(a) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default which may have occurred:
(i) the duties and obligations of the Trustee shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act, and the Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act against the Trustee; and
(ii) in the absence of bad faith and willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provisions hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture;
(b) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Officers of the Trustee, unless the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(c) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the written direction of the holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding determined as provided in Section 8.04 relating to the time, method
 
and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture;
(d) whether or not therein provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of, or affording protection to, the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section;
(e) the Trustee shall not be liable in respect of any payment (as to the correctness of amount, entitlement to receive or any other matters relating to payment) or notice effected by the Issuer or any Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) or any records maintained by any co-registrar (other than the Trustee) with respect to the Notes;
(f) if any party fails to deliver a notice relating to an event the fact of which, pursuant to this Indenture, requires notice to be sent to the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely on its failure to receive such notice as reason to act as if no such event occurred unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless the Trustee has otherwise received written notice thereof; and
(g) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Event of Default hereunder unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless the Trustee shall have been notified in writing of such Event of Default by the Issuer or a holder of Notes.
None of the provisions contained in this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there is reasonable ground for believing that the repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
Section 7.02Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01:
. Reliance on Documents, Opinions, etc.
(a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon or other paper or document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it in good faith to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request, direction, order or demand of the Issuer mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an Officers' Certificate (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); and any resolution
 
of the Board of Directors may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Issuer;
(c) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection and any advice or Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance on and in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
(d) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Noteholders pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Noteholders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred therein or thereby;
(e) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture or other paper or document, but the Trustee may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Issuer, personally or by agent or attorney;
(f) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed by it with due care hereunder;
(g) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
(h) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
(i) the Trustee may request that the Issuer deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; and
 
(j) any permissive right or authority granted to the Trustee shall not be construed as a mandatory duty.
Section 7.03The recitals contained herein and in the Notes (except in the Trustee's certificate of authentication) shall be taken as the statements of the Issuer, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Notes. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Issuer of any Notes or the proceeds of any Notes authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture.
. No Responsibility for Recitals, etc.
Section 7.04The Trustee, any Paying Agent, any Conversion Agent or any Note Registrar, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Note Registrar.
. Trustee, Paying Agents, Conversion Agents or Note Registrars May Own Notes.
Section 7.05Subject to the provisions of Section 11.02, all monies received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received. Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as may be agreed in writing from time to time by the Issuer and the Trustee.
. Monies to be Held in Trust.
Section 7.06The Issuer covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, such compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder in any capacity (which shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust) as mutually agreed to from time to time in writing between the Issuer and the Trustee, and the Issuer shall pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances reasonably incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the reasonable expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its negligence, willful misconduct, recklessness or bad faith. The Issuer also covenants to indemnify the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee (or any officer, director or employee of the Trustee), in any capacity under this Indenture and any authenticating agent for, and to hold them harmless against, any and all loss, liability, damage, claim or reasonable expense including taxes (other than taxes based on the income of the Trustee) incurred without negligence, willful misconduct, recklessness or bad faith on the part of the Trustee or such
. Compensation and Expenses of Trustee.
 
officers, directors, employees or authenticating agent, as the case may be, and arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust or in any other capacity hereunder, including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim (whether asserted by the Issuer, any holder or any other Person) of liability in the premises. The obligations of the Issuer under this Section 7.06 to compensate or indemnify the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the Notes upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the holders of particular Notes. The obligation of the Issuer under this Section shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
When the Trustee and its agents and any authenticating agent incur expenses or render services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(h), 6.01(i) or 6.01(j) with respect to the Issuer occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute reasonable expenses of administration under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws.
Section 7.07Except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or omitting any action hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence, bad faith, recklessness or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee.
. Officers' Certificate as Evidence.
Section 7.08If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture.
. Conflicting Interest of Trustee.
Section 7.09There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50.0 million (or if such Person is a member of a bank holding company system, its bank holding company shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50.0 million). If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of any supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 7.09 the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.09, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
. Eligibility of Trustee.
 
Section 7.10
. Resignation or Removal of Trustee.
(a) Subject to Section 7.10(c), the Trustee may at any time resign by giving written notice of such resignation to the Issuer and to the holders of Notes. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Issuer shall promptly appoint a successor trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment sixty (60) calendar days after the mailing of such notice of resignation to the Noteholders, the resigning Trustee may, upon ten (10) Business Days' notice to the Issuer and the Noteholders, petition, at the expense of the Issuer, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee.
(b) In case at any time any of the following shall occur:
(i) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 7.08 after written request therefor by the Issuer or by any Noteholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Note or Notes for at least six months; or
(ii) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Issuer or by any such Noteholder; or
(iii) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation;
then, in any such case, the Issuer may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or, subject to the provisions of Section 6.09, any Noteholder who has been a bona fide holder of a Note or Notes for at least six months may, on behalf of itself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.
(c) Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor trustee pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section 7.10 shall
 
become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 7.11.
(d) Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.10, the Issuer's obligations under Section 7.06 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 7.11Any successor trustee appointed as provided in Section 7.10 shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Issuer and to its predecessor trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as trustee herein; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Issuer or of the successor trustee, the trustee ceasing to act shall, upon payment of any amount then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all the rights and powers of the trustee so ceasing to act. Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Issuer shall execute any and all instruments in writing for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights and powers. Any trustee ceasing to act shall, nevertheless, retain a lien upon all property and funds held or collected by such trustee as such, except for funds held in trust for the benefit of holders of particular Notes, to secure any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06.
. Acceptance by Successor Trustee.
No successor trustee shall accept appointment as provided in this Section 7.11 unless, at the time of such acceptance, such successor trustee shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and be eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09.
Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided in this Section 7.11, the Issuer (or the former trustee, at the written direction of the Issuer) shall mail or cause to be mailed notice of the succession of such trustee hereunder to the holders of Notes at their addresses as they shall appear on the Note Register. If the Issuer fails to mail such notice within ten (10) calendar days after acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be mailed at the expense of the Issuer.
Section 7.12Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or exchanged or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, exchange or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee (including any trust created by this Indenture), shall be the successor to the Trustee hereunder without the
. Succession by Merger.
 
execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, provided that in the case of any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, such corporation shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09.
In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture, any of the Notes shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee or authenticating agent appointed by such predecessor trustee, and deliver such Notes so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Notes shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee or any authenticating agent appointed by such successor trustee may authenticate such Notes in the name of the successor trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force that is provided in the Notes or in this Indenture; provided that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or authenticate Notes in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, exchange or consolidation.
Section 7.13If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Issuer (or any other obligor upon the Notes), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of the claims against the Issuer (or any such other obligor).
. Preferential Collection of Claims.
Section 8.01Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Notes may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action, the holders of such specified percentage have joined therein may be evidenced (a) by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by Noteholders in person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing, or (b) by the record of the holders of Notes voting in favor thereof at any meeting of Noteholders, or (c) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of Noteholders. Whenever the Issuer or the Trustee solicits the taking of any action by the holders of the Notes, the Issuer or the Trustee may fix in advance of such solicitation a date as the record date for determining holders entitled to take such action. The record date, if any, shall be not more than fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the date of commencement of solicitation of such action.
. Action by Noteholders.
 
Section 8.02Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01 and 7.02, proof of the execution of any instrument by a Noteholder or its agent or proxy shall be sufficient if made in accordance with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Trustee or in such manner as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. The holding of Notes shall be proved by the registry of such Notes or by a certificate of the Note Registrar.
. Proof of Execution by Noteholders.
Section 8.03The Issuer, the Trustee, any Paying Agent, any Conversion Agent and any Note Registrar may deem the Person in whose name such Note shall be registered upon the Note Register to be, and may treat it as, the absolute owner of such Note (whether or not such Note shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon made by any Person other than the Issuer or any Note Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, and interest on, such Note, for conversion of such Note and for all other purposes; and neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor any Conversion Agent nor any Note Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments so made to any holder for the time being, or upon its order, shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for monies payable upon any such Note.
. Absolute Owners.
Section 8.04In determining whether the holders of the requisite aggregate principal amount of Notes have concurred in any direction, consent, waiver or other action under this Indenture, Notes which are owned by the Issuer or any other obligor on the Notes or any Affiliate of the Issuer or any other obligor on the Notes shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding for the purpose of any such determination; provided that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, consent, waiver or other action, only Notes which a Responsible Officer knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Notes so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as outstanding for the purposes of this Section 8.04 if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right to vote such Notes and that the pledgee is not the Issuer, any other obligor on the Notes or any Affiliate of the Issuer or any such other obligor. In the case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee. Upon request of the Trustee, the Issuer shall furnish to the Trustee promptly an Officers' Certificate listing and identifying all Notes, if any, known by the Issuer to be owned or held by or for the account of any of the above described Persons, and, subject to Section 7.01, the Trustee shall be entitled to accept such Officers' Certificate as conclusive evidence of the facts therein set forth and of the fact that all Notes not listed therein are outstanding for the purpose of any such determination.
. Issuer-owned Notes Disregarded.
Section 8.05At any time prior to (but not after) the evidencing to the Trustee, as provided in Section
. Revocation of Consents; Future Holders Bound.
 
8.01, of the taking of any action by the holders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Notes specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any holder of a Note which is shown by the evidence to be included in the Notes the holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 8.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Note. Except as aforesaid, any such action taken by the holder of any Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and upon all future holders and owners of such Note and of any Notes issued in exchange or substitution therefor, irrespective of whether any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Note or any Note issued in exchange or substitution therefor.
Section 9.01The Issuer, when authorized by the resolutions of the Board of Directors, and the Trustee may, from time to time, and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto without the consent of the holders of the Notes for one or more of the following purposes:
. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Noteholders.
(a) to evidence a successor to the Issuer and the assumption by that successor of the obligations of the Issuer under this Indenture and the Notes;
(b) to provide for the conversion rights of holders of the Notes if any reclassification or change of shares of Common Stock or any consolidation, merger or sale of all or substantially all of the property or assets of the Issuer occurs;
(c) to add to the covenants of the Issuer for the benefit of the holders of the Notes or to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Issuer;
(d) to secure the obligations of the Issuer in respect of the Notes;
(e) to add guarantees;
(f) to evidence and provide the acceptance of the appointment of a successor Trustee under this Indenture;
(g) to comply with the requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, as contemplated by this Indenture or otherwise;
 
(h) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture or make any other provision with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture which the Issuer may deem necessary or desirable and which shall not be inconsistent with provisions of this Indenture; that such modification or amendment does not, in the good faith opinion of the Board of Directors, adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Notes in any material respect;
provided
(i) to add or modify any provision with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture which the Issuer and the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable and which shall not adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Notes in any material respect; or
(j) to modify any provision of this Indenture to conform that provision to the description thereof set forth in the Offering Memorandum.
Upon the written request of the Issuer, accompanied by a copy of the resolutions of the Board of Directors certified by the Issuer's Secretary or Assistant Secretary authorizing the execution of any supplemental indenture, the Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Issuer in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer and assignment of any property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to, but may in its discretion, enter into any supplemental indenture that affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section 9.01 may be executed by the Issuer and the Trustee without the consent of the holders of any of the Notes at the time outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 9.02.
Section 9.02With the consent (evidenced as provided in Article 8) of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, the Issuer, when authorized by the resolutions of the Board of Directors, and the Trustee may, from time to time and at any time, enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the holders of the Notes; provided that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the holder of each Note so affected:
. Supplemental Indenture With Consent of Noteholders.
(a) impair or adversely affect the manner of calculation or rate of accrual of interest on the Notes or change the time of payment thereof;
 
(b) make the Note payable in money or securities other than that stated in the Note;
(c) change the Stated Maturity of the Notes;
(d) reduce the principal amount of, or the redemption price or Change in Control Purchase Price specified in Article 3 hereof with respect to, the Notes;
(e) make any change that impairs or adversely affects the conversion rights of the holders of the Notes;
(f) make any change that impairs or adversely affects the right to require the Issuer to repurchase the Notes;
(g) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment with respect to the Notes or with respect to conversion of the Notes;
(h) change the obligation of the Issuer to redeem any Notes called for redemption on a Redemption Date in a manner adverse to the holders;
(i) change the obligation of the Issuer to maintain an office or agency in New York City pursuant to Section 4.02;
(j) make the Notes subordinate in right of payment to any other indebtedness;
(k) reduce the percentage in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes required to modify or amend this Indenture or to waive compliance by the Issuer with the provisions of the Indenture;
(l) modify Section 6.07 or this Section 9.02; or
(m) eliminate a Subsidiary Guarantee (except as otherwise set forth in this Indenture).
Upon the written request of the Issuer, accompanied by a copy of the resolutions of the Board of Directors certified by the Issuer's Secretary or Assistant Secretary authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Noteholders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Issuer in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Noteholders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 9.03Any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to the provisions of this Article 9 shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act, as then in effect, provided that this Section 9.03 shall not require such supplemental indenture or the Trustee to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act prior to the time, if ever, such qualification is in fact required under the terms of the Trust Indenture Act or the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, nor shall it constitute any admission or acknowledgment by any party to such supplemental indenture that any such qualification is required prior to the time, if ever, such qualification is in fact required under the terms of the Trust Indenture Act or the Indenture has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article 9, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitation of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the holders of Notes shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder, subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
. Effect of Supplemental Indenture.
Section 9.04Notes authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article 9 may bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Issuer or the Trustee shall so determine, new Notes so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may, at the Issuer's expense, be prepared and executed by the Issuer, authenticated by the Trustee (or an authenticating agent duly appointed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 15.10) and delivered in exchange for the Notes then outstanding, upon surrender of such Notes then outstanding.
. Notation on Notes.
Section 9.05Prior to entering into any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article 9, the Trustee shall be provided with an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any supplemental indenture executed pursuant hereto complies with the requirements of this Article 9 and is otherwise authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
. Evidence of Compliance of Supplemental Indenture to be Furnished to Trustee.
 
Section 10.01Subject to the provisions of Section 10.02, the Issuer shall not, in a single transaction or a series of related transactions, consolidate with, or sell, lease or convey all or substantially all of its property and assets to, or merge with or into, any other Person (whether or not affiliated with the Issuer), unless: (i) the Issuer is the continuing entity, or the successor (if other than the Issuer) formed by or resulting from any consolidation or merger or which shall have received the transfer of assets shall be an entity organized and existing under the laws of the U.S., any state thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume (x) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest on, all of the Notes, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions in the Notes and this Indenture to be performed or satisfied by the Issuer (including, without limitations, the obligation to convert Notes in accordance with the provisions of Article 13 hereof) by a supplemental indenture reasonably satisfactory in form to the Trustee and (y) all of the obligations of the Issuer under the Registration Rights Agreement by a supplemental agreement, in each case, executed and delivered to the Trustee by such successor; (ii) if as a result of any such consolidation, sale, lease, conveyance or merger, the Notes become convertible into common stock or other securities issued by a Person that is other than the Issuer or such successor Person, such Person shall fully and unconditionally guarantee all obligations under the Notes and this Indenture; (iii) immediately after giving effect to the transaction described above, no Event of Default or event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, has occurred and is continuing; and (iv) the Issuer has delivered to the Trustee the Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel, if any, requested pursuant to Section 15.05.
. Issuer May Consolidate on Certain Terms.
Section 10.02In case of any such consolidation, sale, lease, conveyance or merger in which the Issuer is not the continuing entity and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and reasonably satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest on, all of the Notes, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed or satisfied by the Issuer, and by supplemental agreement, executed and delivered to the Trustee and reasonably satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of all of the obligations of the Issuer under the Registration Rights Agreement, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Issuer, with the same effect as if it had been named herein as the party of this first part, and the Issuer shall be discharged from its obligations under the Notes, this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed, and may issue either in its own name or in the
. Issuer Successor to be Substituted.
 
name of the Issuer any or all of the Notes, issuable hereunder that theretofore shall not have been signed by the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee; and, upon the order of such successor Person instead of the Issuer and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations in this Indenture prescribed, the Trustee shall authenticate and shall deliver, or cause to be authenticated and delivered, any Notes that previously shall have been signed and delivered by the officers of the Issuer to the Trustee for authentication, and any Notes that such successor Person thereafter shall cause to be signed and delivered to the Trustee for that purpose. All the Notes so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Notes theretofore or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Notes had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. In the event of any such consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, transfer or lease, upon compliance with this Article 10 the Person named as the "" in the first paragraph of this Indenture or any successor that shall thereafter have become such in the manner prescribed in this Article 10 may be dissolved, wound up and liquidated at any time thereafter and such Person shall be discharged from its liabilities as obligor and maker of the Notes and from its obligations under this Indenture and under the Registration Rights Agreement.
Issuer
In case of any such consolidation, sale, lease, conveyance or merger, such changes in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Notes thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate.
Section 11.01This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of conversion, registration of transfer or exchange of Notes herein expressly provided for and except as further provided below), and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Issuer, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when (a) either: (1) all Notes theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Notes which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.06 and (ii) Notes for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Issuer as provided in Section 11.04) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or (2) all such Notes not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable, whether upon the Stated Maturity of the Notes, a Redemption Date or a Change in Control Repurchase Date or otherwise, or have all been converted in accordance with the provisions of Article 13 hereof, and the Issuer has irrevocably deposited or caused to be irrevocably deposited with the Trustee, a Paying Agent or the Conversion Agent (other than the Issuer or any of its Affiliates), as applicable, as trust funds in trust cash and, if
. Discharge of Indenture.
 
applicable, shares of Common Stock in an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Notes not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Notes which have become due and payable) or for amounts owing upon conversion; provided, however, that there shall not exist, on the date of such deposit, a default or Event of Default; and , that such deposit shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Issuer is a party or to which the Issuer is bound; (b) the Issuer has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Issuer; and (c) the Issuer has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
provided, further
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Issuer to the Trustee under Section 7.06 shall survive and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (2) of clause (a) of this Section, the provisions of Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 3.05, 5.01, Article 13 and this Article 11, shall survive until the Notes have been paid in full.
Section 11.02Subject to Section 11.04, all monies deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.05, shall be held in trust for the sole benefit of the Noteholders, and such monies shall be applied by the Trustee to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Issuer if acting as its own Paying Agent), to the holders of the particular Notes for the payment or redemption of which such monies have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal and interest. All moneys deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.05 (and held by it or any Paying Agent) for the payment of Notes subsequently converted shall be returned to the Issuer upon request. The Trustee is not responsible to anyone for interest on any deposited funds except as agreed in writing.
. Deposited Monies to be Held in Trust by Trustee.
Section 11.03Subject to the provisions of Section 11.04, the Trustee or a Paying Agent shall hold in trust, for the benefit of the Noteholders, all money deposited with it pursuant to Section 11.01 and shall apply the deposited money in accordance with this Indenture and the Notes to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes.
. Paying Agent to Repay Monies Held.
Section 11.04The Trustee and each Paying Agent shall pay to the Issuer upon written request any money held by them for the payment of principal or interest that remains unclaimed for two years after a right to such money has matured; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such payment, may, at the expense of the Issuer, either publish in a newspaper of general circulation in The
. Return of Unclaimed Monies.
 
City of New York, or cause to be mailed to each holder entitled to such money, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that after a date specified therein, which shall be at least thirty (30) calendar days from the date of such mailing or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining shall be repaid to the Issuer. After payment to the Issuer, holders entitled to money must look to the Issuer for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person, and the Trustee and each Paying Agent shall be relieved of all liability with respect to such money.
Section 11.05If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 11.02 by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Issuer's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 11.01 until such time as the Trustee or the Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 11.02; provided that if the Issuer makes any payment of principal of or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Issuer shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
. Reinstatement.
Section 12.01No recourse for the payment of the principal of, or interest on, any Note, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Issuer or Subsidiary Guarantors in this Indenture or in any supplemental indenture or in any Note or Subsidiary Guarantee, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, partner, member, manager, employee, agent, officer, director or subsidiary, other than the Subsidiary Guarantors, as such, past, present or future, of the Issuer or any of the Issuer's Subsidiaries or of any successor thereto, either directly or through the Issuer or any of the Issuer's Subsidiaries or any successor thereto, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of the Notes.
. Indenture and Notes Solely Corporate Obligations.
 
Section 13.01
. Right to Convert.
(a) Subject to the restrictions on ownership of shares of Common Stock as set forth in Section 13.14 and upon compliance with the provisions of this Indenture, the Holder of any Notes may convert its Notes, or any portion thereof which is a multiple of $1,000, into cash or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock at the election of the Issuer, as provided in Section 13.12, by surrender of such Notes so to be converted in whole or in part, together with any required funds, under the circumstances and in the manner described in this Article 13. Holders may surrender any Notes for conversion not previously redeemed or repurchased at the applicable Conversion Rate prior to the close of business on the second Business Day immediately preceding the Stated Maturity of the Notes at any time on or after September 15, 2011 and also upon the occurrence of one of the events set forth in clauses (i) through (v) below.
(i) . A Holder may surrender any of its Notes for conversion during any calendar quarter beginning after December 31, 2006 (and only during such calendar quarter) if, and only if, the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock for at least twenty (20) Trading Days (whether or not consecutive) in the period of thirty (30) consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the preceding calendar quarter is more than 125% of the Conversion Price per share of Common Stock in effect on the applicable Trading Day. The Board of Directors shall make appropriate adjustments, in its good faith determination, to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate where the ex dividend date of the event occurs, during that thirty (30) consecutive Trading Day period.
Conversion Upon Satisfaction of Market Price Condition
(ii) . A Holder may surrender any of its Notes for conversion during the five (5) consecutive Trading Day period following any five (5) consecutive Trading Day period in which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (as determined following a reasonable request by a holder of the Notes) was less than 98% of the product of the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock multiplied by the applicable Conversion Rate.
Conversion Upon Satisfaction of Trading Price Condition
"" means, with respect to the Notes on any date of determination, the average of the secondary market bid quotations per $1,000 principal amount of Notes obtained by the Trustee for a $5,000,000 principal amount of Notes at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from two independent nationally
Trading Price
 
recognized securities dealers selected by the Issuer, which may include one or more of the Initial Purchasers or any successor to such entities. If at least two such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, but one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, then one bid shall be used. If the Trustee cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for a $5,000,000 principal amount of Notes from a nationally recognized securities dealer or, in the reasonable judgment of the Issuer, the bid quotations are not indicative of the secondary market value of the Notes, then the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes shall be deemed to be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock and the Conversion Rate on such determination date.
The Trustee shall have no obligation to determine the Trading Price of the Notes unless the Issuer shall have requested such determination, and the Issuer shall have no obligation to make such request unless a Holder provides the Issuer with written reasonable evidence that the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes would be less than 98% of the product of the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate, whereupon the Issuer shall instruct the Trustee to determine the Trading Price of the Notes beginning on the next Trading Day and on each successive Trading Day until the Trading Price is greater than or equal to 98% of the product of the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock and the applicable Conversion Rate.
(iii) . A Holder may surrender for conversion any of the Notes called for redemption at any time prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Redemption Date, even if the Notes are not otherwise convertible at such time. The right to convert Notes pursuant to this clause (iii) shall expire after the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Redemption Date unless the Issuer defaults in making the payment due upon redemption. A Holder may convert fewer than all of its Notes so long as the Notes converted are an integral multiple of $1,000 principal amount and the remaining principal amount of Notes is in an authorized denomination. However, if a Holder has already delivered a Repurchase Notice with respect to a Note, such Holder may not surrender such Note for conversion until it has withdrawn such notice in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3.08 hereof.
Conversion Upon Notice of Redemption
(iv) . If the Issuer elects to: (A) distribute to all holders of Common Stock rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within forty-five (45) days after the date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights, shares of Common Stock at less than the Closing Sale Price of the
Conversion Upon Specified Transactions
 
Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the declaration date of such distribution; or (B) distribute to all holders of Common Stock assets, debt securities or certain rights to purchase securities of the Issuer, which distribution has a per share value exceeding 15% of the Closing Sale Price of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the declaration date of such distribution, the Issuer shall notify Holders of the Notes at least thirty-three (33) Scheduled Trading Days prior to the ex-dividend date for such distribution (or, if earlier the record date). Following the issuance of such notice, Holders may surrender their Notes for conversion at any time until the earlier of the close of business on the Business Day prior to the ex-dividend date or an announcement by the Issuer that such distribution shall not take place; provided, however, that a Holder may not convert its Notes pursuant to this Section 13.01(a)(iv) if such holder may participate (based on the then applicable Conversion Rate) in the distribution without any conversion of Notes. The "" means, with respect to any distribution on shares of Common Stock, the first date upon which a sale of shares of Common Stock does not automatically transfer the right to receive the relevant distribution from the seller of shares of Common Stock to the buyer.
ex-dividend date
In addition, if the Issuer is party to a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange pursuant to which all of the Common Stock would be exchanged for cash, securities or other property that is not otherwise a Change in Control, a Holder may surrender Notes for conversion at any time from and including the date that is thirty-three (33) Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective time of the transaction up to and including five (5) Business Days after the effective time of such transaction. The Issuer shall notify Holders of Notes as promptly as practicable following the date it publicly announces such transaction (but in no event less than thirty-three (33) Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective time of such transaction).
If a Change in Control occurs prior to the Stated Maturity as a result of a transaction described in clauses (1) or (2) of the definition of "Change in Control," (and, for the avoidance of doubt, without regard to clause (x) of the exception to that definition) a Holder shall have the right to convert its Notes at any time from and including the Effective Date of such transaction up to and including the earlier of the 30th Business Day following the Effective Date of the transaction and the second Business Day prior to the Stated Maturity, that, if a Holder has already delivered a Repurchase Notice with respect to a Note, such Holder may not surrender such Note for conversion until it has withdrawn such notice in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 3.08 hereof. The Issuer shall notify holders as promptly as practicable following the date that it publicly announces such Change in Control (but in no event later
provided
 
than five (5) Business Days prior to the Effective Date of such Change in Control).
(v) . A Holder of Notes may surrender any of its Notes for conversion at any time beginning on the first Business Day after the Common Stock has ceased to be listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange or national quotation system or an established automated over-the-counter trading market in the U.S. for a thirty (30) consecutive Trading Day period.
Conversion Upon Delisting of the Common Stock
(b) Whenever the Notes shall become convertible pursuant to this Section 13.01, the Issuer or, at the Issuer's request, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Issuer, shall notify the holders of the event triggering such convertibility in the manner provided in Section 15.03, and the Issuer shall also publicly announce such information and publish it on its Web site. Any notice so given shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice.
(c) A Note in respect of which a holder has delivered a Repurchase Notice exercising such holder's right to require the Issuer to repurchase such Note pursuant to Section 3.05 may be converted only if such Repurchase Notice is withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.08 prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change in Control Repurchase Date.
(d) A holder of Notes is not entitled to any rights of a holder of Common Stock until such holder has converted its Notes and, at the election of the Issuer, received upon conversion thereof shares of Common Stock. The person in whose name any certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock shall be issuable upon such conversion, if any, shall become on the date any such certificate or certificates are delivered to such holder in accordance with the provisions of this Article 13, the holder of record of the shares represented thereby.
Section 13.02In order to exercise the conversion right with respect to any Note in certificated form, the Issuer must receive at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in The City of New York or, at the option of such holder, the Corporate Trust Office, such Note with the original or facsimile of the form entitled "" on the reverse thereof, duly completed and manually signed, together with such Notes duly endorsed for transfer, accompanied by the funds, if any, required by this Section 13.02. Such notice shall also state the name or names (with address or addresses) in which the certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock, if any, which shall be issuable on such conversion shall be issued (if other than in the name of the
. Exercise of Conversion Right, No Adjustment for Interest or Dividends.
Conversion Notice
 
holder tendering such Note for conversion), and shall be accompanied by transfer or similar taxes, if required pursuant to Section 13.07.
In order to exercise the conversion right with respect to any interest in a Global Note, the beneficial holder must complete, or cause to be completed, the appropriate instruction form for conversion pursuant to the Depositary's book-entry conversion program; deliver, or cause to be delivered, by book-entry delivery such interest in such Global Note; furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Issuer or the Trustee or the Conversion Agent; and pay the funds, if any, required by this Section 13.02 and any transfer taxes if required pursuant to Section 13.07.
Each conversion shall be deemed to have been effected as to any such Note (or portion thereof) on the date on which the requirements set forth above in this Section 13.02 have been satisfied as to such Note (or portion thereof) (the "").
Conversion Date
Except as set forth in the next succeeding paragraph, upon conversion of a Note, a holder shall not be entitled to receive any cash payment in respect of interest, and the Issuer shall not be required to adjust the Conversion Rate to account for any accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest, if any). The delivery by the Issuer to the holder of cash and, at the election of the Issuer, Common Stock upon conversion shall be deemed to satisfy the Issuer's obligation with respect to Notes tendered for conversion. Accordingly, upon conversion of Notes, any accrued but unpaid interest shall be deemed to be paid in full, rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited.
Holders of Notes at the close of business on a Record Date for an interest payment shall receive payment of the interest payable on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion of such Notes at any time after the close of business on the applicable Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date. Accordingly, any Note or portion thereof surrendered for conversion after the close of business on the Record Date for any Interest Payment Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date shall be accompanied by payment, in immediately available funds or other funds acceptable to the Issuer, of an amount equal to the interest otherwise payable on such Interest Payment Date on the principal amount being converted; provided that no such payment need be made (1) if the Issuer has specified a Redemption Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, (2) to the extent of any overdue interest and Additional Interest, if any, existing at the time of conversion with respect to such Notes, (3) in respect of any conversion that occurs after the Record Date for the interest payment due on November 15, 2011 or (4) if the Issuer has specified a Change in Control Repurchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date. Except as otherwise provided above in this Article 13, no
 
payment or other adjustment shall be made for interest accrued on any Note converted or for dividends on any shares issued upon the conversion of such Note as provided in this Article 13.
In case any Note of a denomination greater than $1,000 shall be surrendered for partial conversion, and subject to Section 2.04, the Issuer shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the holder of the Note so surrendered, without charge to the holder, a new Note or Notes in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Note.
Upon surrender of a Note for conversion, the holder shall deliver to the Issuer an amount in cash equal to the amount that the Issuer is required to deduct and withhold under applicable law in connection with such conversion; provided, however, that if the holder does not deliver such cash, the Issuer may deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise deliverable to such holder the amount required to be deducted and withheld under applicable law.
Upon the conversion of an interest in a Global Note, the Trustee (or other Conversion Agent appointed by the Issuer), or the Custodian at the direction of the Trustee (or other Conversion Agent appointed by the Issuer), shall make a notation on such Global Note as to the reduction in the principal amount represented thereby. The Issuer shall notify the Trustee in writing of any conversion of Notes effected through any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee.
Section 13.03No fractional shares of Common Stock or scrip certificates representing fractional shares shall be issued upon conversion of Notes. If more than one Note shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same holder, the number of full shares that shall be issuable upon conversion shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted hereby) so surrendered. The Issuer shall deliver cash in lieu of any fractional shares of Common Stock issuable in connection with payment of the settlement amount determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.12 based on the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the last day of the applicable Observation Period.
. Cash Payments in Lieu of Fractional Shares.
Section 13.04The Conversion Rate for the Notes is 22.1867 shares of Common Stock per each $1,000 principal amount of the Notes (herein called the ""), subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 13.05 and 13.13.
. Conversion Rate.
Conversion Rate
Section 13.05The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted by the Issuer from time to time as follows:
. Adjustment of Conversion Rate.
 
(a) If the Issuer issues Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock, or if the Issuer effects a share split or share combination, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
Any adjustment made pursuant to this clause (a) shall become effective on the date that is immediately after (x) the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution or (y) the date on which such split or combination becomes effective, as applicable. If any dividend or distribution described in this clause (a) is declared but not so paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
(b) If the Issuer issues to all holders of Common Stock any rights, warrants, options or other securities entitling them for a period of not more than forty-five (45) days after the date of issuance thereof to subscribe for or purchase Common Stock, or if the Issuer issues to all holders of Common Stock securities convertible into Common Stock for a period of not more than forty-five (45) days after the date of issuance thereof, in either case at an exercise price per share of Common Stock or a conversion price per share of Common Stock less than the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Business Day immediately preceding the time of announcement of such issuance, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
 
For purposes of this clause (b), in determining whether any rights, warrants, options, other securities or convertible securities entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase, or exercise a conversion right for, Common Stock at less than the applicable Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock, and in determining the aggregate exercise or conversion price payable for such Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Issuer for such rights, warrants, options, other securities or convertible securities and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors of the Issuer. If any right, warrant, option, other security or convertible security described in this clause (b) is not exercised or converted prior to the expiration of the exercisability or convertibility thereof, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such right, warrant, option, other security or convertible security had not been so issued.
(c) If the Issuer distributes capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or other assets or property of the Issuer to all holders of Common Stock, excluding:
(i) dividends, distributions, rights, warrants, options, other securities or convertible securities referred to in clause (a) or (b) above,
(ii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in cash, and
(iii) Spin Offs described below in this clause (c),
then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
 
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to the immediately preceding clause shall be made successively whenever any such distribution is made and shall become effective on the ex-dividend date for such distribution.
If the Issuer distributes to all holders of Common Stock capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Issuer (a ""), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the close of business on the date fixed for determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such distribution shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
Spin Off
 
 
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to the immediately preceding clause shall occur on the 10th Trading Day from and including the effective date of the Spin Off.
If any such dividend or distribution described in this clause (c) is declared but not paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
(d) If the Issuer pays or makes any cash dividend or distribution in respect of any of its quarterly fiscal periods (without regard to when paid) to all holders of Common Stock in an aggregate amount that, together with other cash dividends or distributions paid or made in respect of such quarterly fiscal period, exceeds the product of $0.395 (the "") multiplied by the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date for such distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
Reference Dividend
 
An adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to this clause (d) shall become effective on the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution. If any dividend or distribution described in this clause (d) is declared but not so paid or made, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
 
The Reference Dividend shall be subject to adjustment on account of any of the events set forth in clauses (a), (b) and (c) above and clause (e) below. Any such adjustment shall be effected by multiplying the Reference Dividend by a fraction, the numerator of which shall equal the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the adjustment on account of such event and the denominator of which shall equal the Conversion Rate as adjusted.
(e) If the Issuer or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for Common Stock to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the ""), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
Expiration Time
 
If the application of the foregoing formula would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made.
 
Any adjustment to the Conversion Rate made pursuant to this clause (e) shall become effective on the date immediately following the determination of the average of the Closing Sale Prices of Common Stock for purposes of SP1 above. If the Issuer or one of its Subsidiaries is obligated to purchase Common Stock pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer but is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchase or all such purchases are rescinded, the new Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made.
(f) In addition to the adjustments pursuant to clauses (a) through (e) above, the Issuer may increase the Conversion Rate in order to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of capital shares (or rights to acquire Common Stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes. The Issuer may also, from time to time, to the extent permitted by applicable law, increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period if the Issuer has determined that such increase would be in the best interests of the Issuer. If the Issuer makes such determination, it shall be conclusive and the Issuer shall mail to holders of the Notes a notice of the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it shall be in effect at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect in accordance with applicable law.
(g) If, in connection with any adjustment to the Conversion Rate as set forth in this Section 13.05, a holder shall be deemed for U.S. federal tax purposes to have received a distribution, the Issuer may set off any withholding tax it reasonably believes it is required to collect with respect to any such deemed distribution against cash payments of interest in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.01 hereof or from cash and Common Stock, if any, otherwise deliverable to a holder upon a conversion of Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.12 hereof or a redemption or repurchase of a Note in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 hereof.
(h) The Issuer shall not make any adjustment to the Conversion Rate if holders of the Notes are permitted to participate, on an as converted basis, in the transactions described above.
(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in addition to the other events set forth herein on account of which no adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made, the applicable Conversion Rate shall not be adjusted for: (i) the issuance of any Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Issuer and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan; (ii) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan, employee agreement or
 
arrangement or program of the Issuer; (iii) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Notes were first issued; (iv) a change in the par value of the Common Stock; (v) accumulated and unpaid dividends or distributions; and (vi) as a result of a tender offer solely to holders of fewer than 100 shares of Common Stock.
(j) No adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required unless the adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of the Conversion Price. If the adjustment is not made because the adjustment does not change the Conversion Price by at least 1%, then the adjustment that is not made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any future adjustment. All required calculations shall be made to the nearest cent or 1/1000th of a share, as the case may be.
(k) Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Issuer shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received such Officers' Certificate, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Conversion Rate and may assume that the last Conversion Rate of which it has knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Issuer shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to the holders of the Notes within twenty (20) Business Days of the effective date of such adjustment. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
(l) For purposes of this Section 13.05, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Issuer but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
(m) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 13.05 to the contrary, in no event shall the Conversion Rate be adjusted so that the Conversion Price would be less than $0.01.
Section 13.06
. Change in Conversion Right Upon Certain Reclassifications, Business Combinations and Asset Sales.
(a) If the Issuer is a party to a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange (including, without limitation, by way of a recapitalization, reclassification or change of Common Stock (other than changes resulting from a
 
subdivision or combination) or a sale, lease or transfer to a third party of the Issuer's and the Issuer's Subsidiaries' consolidated assets substantially as an entirety), or any statutory share exchange, pursuant to which all of the Common Stock is converted into, or exchanged for, cash, securities or other property (or any combination thereof), then the Issuer, or such successor or purchaser, as the case may be, shall, as a condition precedent to such consolidation, merger or share exchange or sale, lease or transfer, execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture providing that at the effective time of the transaction any conversion of Notes and the determination of the sum of the Daily Share Amounts shall be based on, and determined by reference to, the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property (or any combination thereof) that the holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate would have received or been entitled to receive in such transaction (the ""), subject to settlement in cash and units of such reference property as provided in Section 13.12. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such transaction is a Public Acquirer Change in Control and the Issuer makes the election provided for in Section 13.13(h) below, instead of changing the conversion right as set forth in this Section 13.06, Section 13.13(h) shall apply.
Reference Property
(b) In the event the Issuer shall execute a supplemental indenture pursuant to this Section 13.06, the Issuer shall promptly file with the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture and an Officers' Certificate briefly stating the reasons therefor, the kind or amount of cash, securities or other property (or any combination thereof) receivable by holders of the Notes upon the conversion of their Notes after any such reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, sale, transfer, lease, or any statutory share exchange, or conveyance, any adjustment to be made with respect thereto and that all conditions precedent have been complied with.
(c) For purposes of this Section 13.06, where a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange involves a transaction that causes Common Stock to be converted into the right to receive more than a single type of consideration based upon any form of shareholder election, such consideration shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make such an election.
(d) If this Section 13.06 applies to any event or occurrence, Section 13.05 shall not apply. The provisions of this Section 13.06 shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications, changes, consolidations, mergers, sales, transfers, leases, or any statutory share exchange, conveyances or other dispositions.
Section 13.07The issue of stock certificates, if any, on conversion of Notes shall be made without charge to the converting Noteholder for any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax in respect
. Taxes on Shares Issued.
 
of the issue thereof. The Issuer shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of stock in any name other than that of the holder of any Note converted, and the Issuer shall not be required to issue or deliver any such stock certificate unless and until the Person or Persons requesting the issue thereof shall have paid to the Issuer the amount of such tax or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Issuer that such tax has been paid.
Section 13.08The Issuer shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock to provide for the conversion of the Notes as required by this Indenture from time to time as such Notes are presented for conversion.
. Reservation of Shares, Shares to be Fully Paid, Compliance with Governmental Requirements.
Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment increasing the Conversion Rate to an amount that would cause the Conversion Price to be reduced below the then par value, if any, of the shares of Common Stock issuable, if any, upon conversion of the Notes, the Issuer shall take all corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Issuer may validly and legally issue shares of such Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Rate.
The Issuer covenants that all shares of Common Stock, if any, which may be issued upon conversion of Notes shall upon issue be fully paid and non-assessable and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issue thereof.
Section 13.09The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any holder of Notes to determine the Conversion Rate or whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Conversion Rate, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any capital stock, other securities or other assets or property, which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Note; and the Trustee and any other Conversion Agent make no representations with respect thereto. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure of the Issuer to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or stock certificates or other securities or property or cash upon the surrender of any Note for the purpose of conversion or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Issuer contained in this Article 13. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither the Trustee
. Responsibility of Trustee.
 
nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to Section 13.06 relating either to the kind or amount of shares of capital stock or other securities or other assets or property (including cash) receivable by Noteholders upon the conversion of their Notes after any event referred to in such Section 13.06 or to any adjustment to be made with respect thereto, but, subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness of any such provisions, and shall be protected in relying upon, the Officers' Certificate (which the Issuer shall be obligated to file with the Trustee prior to the execution of any such supplemental indenture) with respect thereto. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any holder of Notes to determine the accuracy of the method employed in calculating the Trading Price or whether any facts exist which may require any adjustment of the Trading Price.
Section 13.10In case:
. Notice to Holders Prior to Certain Actions.
(a) the Issuer shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on its Common Stock that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 13.05; or
(b) the Issuer shall authorize the granting to the holders of all or substantially all of its Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any share of any class or any other rights or warrants; or
(c) of any reclassification or reorganization of the Common Stock (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value), or of any consolidation, combination, merger or share exchange to which the Issuer is a party and for which approval of any stockholders of the Issuer is required, or of the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer; or
(d) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Issuer;
the Issuer shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and to be mailed to each holder of Notes at its address appearing on the Note Register provided for in Section 2.05 of this Indenture, as promptly as possible but in any event at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution or rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution or rights are to be determined, or (y) the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or
 
winding up is expected to become effective or occur, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend, distribution, reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
Section 13.11If the Issuer has in effect a rights plan while any Notes remain outstanding, holders of Notes shall receive, upon a conversion of Notes in respect of which the Issuer elects to deliver shares of Common Stock, in addition to such shares of Common Stock, rights under the Issuer's stockholder rights agreement unless, prior to conversion, the rights have expired, terminated or been redeemed or unless the rights have separated from the Common Stock. If the rights provided for in the rights plan adopted by the Issuer have separated from the Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the applicable stockholder rights agreement so that holders of Notes would not be entitled to receive any rights in respect of Common Stock, if any, that the Issuer elects to deliver upon conversion of Notes, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Issuer had distributed to all holders of Common Stock capital shares, evidences of indebtedness or other assets or property pursuant to Section 13.05(c) above, subject to readjustment upon the subsequent expiration, termination or redemption of the rights. In lieu of such adjustment, the Issuer may amend such applicable stockholder rights agreement to provide that upon a conversion of Notes the holders shall receive, in addition to any Common Stock that the Issuer elects to deliver, the rights which would have attached to such Common Stock if such rights had not become separated from the Common Stock under such applicable stockholder rights agreement. To the extent that the Issuer adopts any future stockholder rights agreement, upon a conversion of Notes in respect of which the Issuer elects to deliver shares of Common Stock, a holder of Notes shall receive, in addition to such Common Stock, the rights under such future stockholder rights agreement whether or not such rights have separated from the Common Stock at the time of conversion, and no adjustment shall be made in accordance with Section 13.05 or otherwise.
. Stockholder Rights Plans.
Section 13.12
. Settlement Upon Conversion.
(a) Upon a conversion of Notes, the Issuer shall deliver, in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of Notes being converted, cash and, if applicable as set forth below, shares of Common Stock equal to the sum of the Daily Settlement Amounts for each of the thirty (30) Trading Days during the Observation Period.
(b) The "," for each of the thirty (30) Trading Days during the Observation Period, shall consist of:
Daily Settlement Amount
 
(i) cash equal to the lesser of (i) one-thirtieth of $1,000 and (ii) the Daily Conversion Value; and
(ii) to the extent the Daily Conversion Value exceeds one-thirtieth of $1,000, (such excess, the ""), an amount in cash and shares of Common Stock in such proportion as the Issuer may elect (as specified immediately below), with a value equal to the difference between the Daily Conversion Value and one-thirtieth of $1,000.
Net Amount
The Issuer may elect to settle its obligation to deliver the Net Amount in respect of any Note surrendered for conversion in any proportion of cash and shares of Common Stock by specifying a percentage of the Net Amount (the "") by notice to the holder and the Trustee no later than the Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the first Trading Day of the related Observation Period. The Cash Percentage specified by the Issuer shall apply to each Daily Settlement Amount of the related Observation Period, and with respect to any Notes that are converted on or after September 15, 2011, such Cash Percentage shall apply to the corresponding Observation Period for all such conversions. If the Issuer elects to specify a Cash Percentage (which may be 100%), the Issuer shall deliver, in respect of each Daily Settlement Amount for the related Observation Period, an amount of cash equal to the Cash Percentage multiplied by the Net Amount, and a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the difference between 100% and the Cash Percentage, such difference divided by the Daily VWAP for the related Trading Day. If the Issuer does not specify a Cash Percentage, the Issuer shall settle the Net Amount in shares of Common Stock (plus cash in lieu of fractional shares) and shall be deemed to have specified a Cash Percentage of 0%.
Cash Percentage
"" means, for each of the thirty (30) consecutive Trading Days during the Observation Period, one-thirtieth of the product of (i) the applicable Conversion Rate and (ii) the Daily VWAP of the Common Stock on such day.
Daily Conversion Value
"" means, for each of the thirty (30) consecutive Trading Days during the Observation Period, the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page "VTR.N <equity> AQR" (or any successor thereto) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of the primary exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or traded to the scheduled close of such exchange or market on such Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one share of Common Stock on such Trading Day determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Issuer).
Daily VWAP
 
"" with respect to any Note means the thirty (30) consecutive Trading Day period beginning on and including the second Trading Day after the Conversion Date relating to such Note, except that with respect to any Note surrendered for conversion during the period beginning on September 15, 2011 and ending on the second Business Day prior to the Stated Maturity, "Observation Period" means the first thirty (30) Trading Days beginning on and including the 32nd Scheduled Trading Day prior to the Stated Maturity.
Observation Period
For the purposes of determining payment upon conversion in accordance with the provisions of this Section 13.12 only, "" means a day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) trading in securities generally occurs on the NYSE or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the NYSE, on the principal other U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, in the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded. If the Common Stock (or other security for which a Daily VWAP must be determined) is not so listed or quoted, "Trading Day" means a "Business Day."
Trading Day
"" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day.
Scheduled Trading Day
"" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half-hour period in the aggregate on any Scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the NYSE or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
Market Disruption Event
(c) The Issuer shall deliver the sum of the Daily Settlement Amounts for each of the thirty (30) Trading Days during the Observation Period to converting holders on the third Business Day immediately following the last day of the Observation Period.
Section 13.13
. Conversion Rate Adjustment After Certain Change in Control Transactions.
(a) If the Effective Date of a Change in Control occurs prior to the Stated Maturity as a result of a transaction or event described in clauses (1) or (2) of the definition of Change in Control (and, for the avoidance of doubt, without regard to clause (x) of the exception to that definition) and a holder elects to convert its Notes in connection with such Change in Control pursuant to Section 13.01(a)(iv) hereof, the Issuer shall increase the applicable Conversion Rate for such Notes surrendered for conversion by a number of additional shares of
 
Common Stock (the "") as specified below, subject to Section 13.13(h) below. A conversion of Notes shall be deemed for these purposes to be "in connection with" such a Change in Control if the Conversion Notice is received by the Conversion Agent on any date from and including the date that is the Effective Date of such Change in Control up to and including the earlier of the 30th Business Day following the Effective Date of such Change in Control and the second Business Day preceding the Stated Maturity.
Additional Shares
(b) The number of Additional Shares shall be determined by reference to the table in Section 13.13(e) and is based on the date on which the Change in Control becomes effective (the "") and the price paid per share of Common Stock in the Change in Control transaction (the ""). If holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the Change in Control transaction, the Stock Price shall equal the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock in such transaction. In all other cases, the Stock Price shall equal the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Common Stock on the ten (10) consecutive Trading Days up to but excluding the Effective Date.
Effective Date
Stock Price
(c) The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table set forth in Section 13.13(e) (i.e., the column headers) shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Notes is adjusted pursuant to Section 13.05. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, (i) the numerator of which shall be the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and (ii) the denominator of which shall be the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.
(d) The number of Additional Shares shall be adjusted in the same manner and for the same events as the Conversion Rate is adjusted pursuant to Section 13.05.
(e) The following table sets forth the Stock Price and number of Additional Shares to be received per $1,000 principal amount of Notes:
 
 
(f) If the exact Stock Price and Effective Date are not set forth in the table above, then:
(i) If the Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or the Effective Date is between two Effective Dates in the table, the number of Additional Shares shall be determined by straight line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Price amounts and the two dates, as applicable, based on a 365 day year;
(ii) If the Stock Price is in excess of $75.00 per share of Common Stock (subject to adjustment as specified in Section 13.13(c)), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate; and
(iii) If the Stock Price is less than $37.56 per share of Common Stock (subject to adjustment as specified in Section 13.13(c)), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 13.13, in no event shall the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes exceed 26.6240 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 13.05.
(h) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 13.13 to the contrary, in the case of a Public Acquirer Change in Control that would otherwise cause an increase to the Conversion Rate, the Issuer may, in lieu of increasing the Conversion Rate by a number of Additional Shares as specified in this Section 13.13, elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and the related conversion obligation such that from and after the Effective Date of such Public Acquirer Change in Control, holders of the Notes shall be entitled to convert their Notes into a number of shares of Public Acquirer Common Stock, subject to the arrangements for payment upon conversion of Notes set forth in Section 13.12 above, by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Public Acquirer Change in Control by a fraction (1) the numerator of which shall be the average of the Closing Sale Prices of Common Stock for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days prior to, but excluding the Effective Date of such Public Acquirer Change in Control and (2) the denominator of which shall be the average of the Closing Sale Prices of the Public Acquirer Common Stock for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days commencing on the Trading Day next succeeding the Effective Date of such Public Acquirer Change in Control.
"" means a Change in Control as defined in subsection (1) of that definition (without, for the avoidance of doubt, regard to
Public Acquirer Change in Control
 
clause (x) of the exception to that definition), in which the acquirer has a class of common stock traded on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange or an established automated over-the counter trading market in the U.S., or quoted on a national quotation system or which shall be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such Change in Control (the ""). If an acquirer does not itself have a class of common stock satisfying the foregoing requirement, it shall be deemed to have Public Acquirer Common Stock if a corporation that directly or indirectly owns at least a majority of the acquirer has a class of common stock satisfying the foregoing requirement, in such case, all references to Public Acquirer Common Stock shall refer to such class of common stock. Majority owned for the purposes of this definition means having "beneficial ownership" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of the total voting power of all shares of the respective entity's capital stock that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Public Acquirer Common Stock
At least ten (10) Trading Days prior to the expected Effective Date of a Change in Control that is also a Public Acquirer Change in Control, the Issuer shall provide to all holders of the Notes, the Trustee and Paying Agent a notification stating whether the Issuer (1) elects to adjust the Conversion Rate and related conversion obligation, in which case the holders shall not have the right to receive Additional Shares upon conversion or (2) elect not to adjust the Conversion Rate and related conversion obligation, in which case the holders shall have the right to convert Notes and, if applicable, receive Additional Shares upon conversion.
Section 13.14
. Ownership Limit; Withholding Tax.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Notes, no holder of Notes shall be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of Notes to the extent that receipt of such shares would cause such holder (together with such holder's Affiliates) to exceed the ownership limit contained in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Issuer.
(b) At the Stated Maturity or upon earlier redemption or repurchase of the Notes or otherwise, and as otherwise required by law, the Issuer may deduct and withhold from the amount of consideration otherwise deliverable to the holder the amount required to be deducted and withheld under applicable law.
Section 13.15Except as otherwise specifically stated herein or in the Notes, all calculations to be made in respect of the Notes shall be the obligation of the Issuer. All calculations made by the Issuer or its agent as contemplated pursuant to the terms hereof and of the Notes shall be made in good faith and be final and binding on the Notes and the holders of the Notes absent manifest error. The Issuer shall provide a schedule of calculations to the Trustee, and the Trustee shall be entitled to rely upon the accuracy of the
. Calculation In Respect of Notes.
 
calculations by the Issuer without independent verification. The Trustee shall forward calculations made by the Issuer to any holder of Notes upon request.
Section 14.01Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, jointly and severally with each other Subsidiary Guarantor, to each holder of the Notes and the Trustee the full and punctual payment when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, of the principal of and interest, including any Additional Interest, on the Notes and all other obligations and liabilities of the Issuer under this Indenture (including without limitation interest (including any Additional Interest) accruing after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating to the Issuer or any Subsidiary Guarantor whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding) (all the foregoing being hereinafter collectively called the ""). Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees (to the extent permitted by law) that the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound under this Article 14 notwithstanding any extension or renewal of any Obligation.
. Subsidiary Guarantee.
Obligations
Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives presentation to, demand of payment from and protest to the Issuer of any of the Obligations and also waives notice of protest for nonpayment. Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives notice of any default under the Notes or the Obligations. The obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall not be affected by (a) the failure of any Noteholder to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against the Issuer or any other Person under this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement or otherwise; (b) any extension or renewal of any thereof; (c) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement; (d) the release of any security held by any Noteholder or the Trustee for the Obligations or any of them; (e) the failure of any Noteholder to exercise any right or remedy against any other Subsidiary Guarantor; or (f) any change in the ownership of the Issuer.
Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that its Subsidiary Guarantee herein constitutes a guarantee of payment when due (and not a guarantee of collection) and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Noteholder to any security held for payment of the Obligations.
 
The obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason (other than payment of the Obligations in full), including any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense of setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever or by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor herein shall not be (to the extent permitted by law) discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of any Holder to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification of any thereof, by any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations, or by any other act or thing or omission or delay to do any other act or thing which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of any Subsidiary Guarantor or would otherwise operate as a discharge of such Subsidiary Guarantor as a matter of law or equity.
Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that its Subsidiary Guarantee herein shall remain in full force and effect until payment in full of all the Obligations or until such Subsidiary Guarantor is released from its Subsidiary Guarantee upon (1) the merger or the sale of all the Capital Stock or assets of the Subsidiary Guarantor in compliance with Section 14.02 or (2) the Notes being rated investment grade in compliance with Section 14.03. Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that its Subsidiary Guarantee herein shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of principal of or interest (including any Additional Interest), on any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Noteholder upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of the Issuer or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which any Noteholder has at law or in equity against any Subsidiary Guarantor by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Issuer to pay any of the Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Trustee, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to the Noteholders an amount equal to the sum of (i) the unpaid amount of such Obligations then due and owing and (ii) accrued and unpaid interest (including any Additional Interest) on such Obligations then due and owing (but only to the extent not prohibited by law).
Each Subsidiary Guarantor further agrees that, as between such Subsidiary Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Noteholders, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the Obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in this Indenture for the purposes of its Subsidiary Guarantee herein, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such
 
acceleration in respect of the Obligations guaranteed hereby and (y) in the event of any such declaration of acceleration of such Obligations, such Obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Subsidiary Guarantor for the purposes of this Subsidiary Guarantee.
Each Subsidiary Guarantor also agrees to pay any and all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by the Trustee in enforcing any rights under this Section 14.01.
Section 14.02(a) The obligations of each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder will be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Subsidiary Guarantor (including, without limitation, any guarantees under the Existing Senior Notes) and after giving effect to any collections from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Subsidiary Guarantor under its Subsidiary Guarantee or pursuant to its contribution obligations under this Indenture, result in the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor under its Subsidiary Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer under federal or state law and not otherwise being void or voidable under any similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
. Limitation on Liability; Termination, Release and Discharge Upon Merger or Consolidation, Termination on Conversion.
(b) Each Subsidiary Guarantor may consolidate with or merge into or sell its assets to the Issuer or another Subsidiary Guarantor without limitation. Subject to Section 4.05 and Article 10, each Subsidiary Guarantor may (i) sell or otherwise dispose (including by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of a majority of the total voting power of the Capital Stock or other interests of such Subsidiary Guarantor, or (ii) sell or otherwise dispose all or substantially all of such Subsidiary Guarantor's assets; that if the surviving Person of any such merger or consolidation is an Affiliate of the Issuer that is not a Subsidiary Guarantor, or any such sale is to an Affiliate of the Issuer that is not a Subsidiary Guarantor, such merger, consolidation or sale shall not be permitted unless:
provided
(A) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger or to whom such sale is made is a corporation, partnership, trust or limited liability company organized existing under the laws of the U.S., any State thereof or the District of Columbia and assumes all the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor under the Subsidiary Guarantee pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee in respect of the Notes, this Indenture and the Subsidiary Guarantee,
 
(B) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and
(C) the Issuer delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel addressed to the Trustee with respect to the foregoing matters.
Upon the sale or disposition of a Subsidiary Guarantor (by merger, consolidation, the sale of its Capital Stock or the sale of all or substantially all of its assets (other than by lease)), which sale or disposition is otherwise in compliance with this Indenture, such Subsidiary Guarantor will be released from all its obligations under this Indenture and its Subsidiary Guarantee will terminate. Each Subsidiary Guarantee with respect to a Note will automatically terminate immediately prior to such Note's conversion.
(c) Each Subsidiary Guarantor will be deemed released from all its obligations under this Indenture, its Subsidiary Guarantee and the Registration Rights Agreement and such Subsidiary Guarantee will terminate upon the discharge of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of Article 11 hereof.
Section 14.03
. Termination, Release and Discharge Following Investment Grade Ratings.
If, following the date of this Indenture:
(a) the Notes are rated both Baa3 or better by Moody's and BBB or better by S&P (or, if either such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of the Issuer, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "" as that term is used in Rule 15c31(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer as a replacement agency);
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization
(b) each rating agency specified in clause (1) above provides written notice to the Issuer and the Trustee stating that the release of all of the Subsidiary Guarantees (other than the Subsidiary Guarantee of Ventas Realty) will not cause the rating assigned by such rating agency to decline to below Baa3 or BBB, as applicable; and
(c) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
then, beginning on that day, the Subsidiary Guarantees of each Subsidiary Guarantor (other than the Subsidiary Guarantee of Ventas Realty) shall be released. The Issuer shall provide the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate stating that the conditions set forth in clauses (a), (b) and (c) above have been satisfied.
 
Section 14.04Each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby agrees that to the extent that any Subsidiary Guarantor shall have paid more than its proportionate share of any payment made on the obligations under the Subsidiary Guarantees, such Subsidiary Guarantor shall be entitled to seek and receive contribution from and against the Issuer or any other Subsidiary Guarantor who has not paid its proportionate share of such payment. The provisions of this Section 14.04 shall in no respect limit the obligations and liabilities of each Subsidiary Guarantor to the Trustee and the Noteholders and each Subsidiary Guarantor shall remain liable to the Trustee and the Noteholders for the full amount guaranteed by such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder.
. Right of Contribution.
Section 14.05Notwithstanding any payment or payments made by each Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder, no Subsidiary Guarantor shall be entitled to be subrogated to any of the rights of the Trustee or any Noteholder against the Issuer or any other Subsidiary Guarantor or any collateral security or guarantee or right of offset held by the Trustee or any Noteholder for the payment of the Obligations, nor shall any Subsidiary Guarantor seek or be entitled to seek any contribution or reimbursement from the Issuer or any other Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of payments made by such Subsidiary Guarantor hereunder, until all amounts owing to the Trustee and the Noteholders by the Issuer on account of the Obligations are paid in full. If any amount shall be paid to any Subsidiary Guarantor on account of such subrogation rights at any time when all of the Obligations shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall be held by such Subsidiary Guarantor in trust for the Trustee and the Noteholders, segregated from other funds of such Subsidiary Guarantor, and shall, forthwith upon receipt by such Subsidiary Guarantor, be turned over to the Trustee in the exact form received by such Subsidiary Guarantor (duly indorsed by such Subsidiary Guarantor to the Trustee, if required), to be applied against the Obligations.
. No Subrogation.
Section 15.01All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements by the Issuer and the Subsidiary Guarantors contained in this Indenture shall bind their respective successors and assigns whether so expressed or not.
. Provisions Binding on Issuer's Successors.
Section 15.02Any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture authorized or required to be done or performed by any board, committee or officer of the Issuer shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the like board, committee or officer of any Person that shall at the time be the lawful sole successor of the Issuer.
. Official Acts by Successor Corporation.
 
Section 15.03Any notice or demand which by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the holders of Notes on the Issuer shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, if given or served by being deposited postage prepaid by registered or certified mail in a post office letter box, or sent by overnight courier, or sent by telecopier transmission addressed as follows:
. Addresses for Notices, etc.
Ventas, Inc.
10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Telephone: (502) 357-9000
Fax: (502) 357-9001
Attention: General Counsel
Any notice, direction, request or demand hereunder to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, if given or served by being deposited, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail in a post office letter box, or sent by overnight courier, or sent by telecopier transmission addressed as follows: U.S. Bank National Association, 425 Walnut Street, 6th Floor, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Attention: Corporate Trust Services.
The Trustee, by notice to the Issuer, may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
Any notice or communication mailed to a Noteholder shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, at such Noteholder's address as it appears on the Note Register and shall be sufficiently given to such Noteholder if so mailed within the time prescribed.
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Noteholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Noteholders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
Section 15.04This Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
. Governing Law.
Section 15.05Upon any application or demand by the Issuer to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Issuer shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
. Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent, Certificates to Trustee.
 
Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include: (1) a statement that the person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statement or opinion contained in such certificate or opinion is based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, such person has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with; , that with respect to matters of fact an Opinion of Counsel may rely on an Officers' Certificate or certificates of public officials.
provided, however
Section 15.06If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) on which action is to be taken under this Indenture is a Legal Holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Notes, no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
. Legal Holidays.
Section 15.07Nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes, expressed or implied, shall be construed to constitute a security interest under the Uniform Commercial Code or similar legislation, as now or hereafter enacted and in effect, in any jurisdiction in which property of the Issuer or its Subsidiaries is located.
. No Security Interest Created.
Section 15.08Nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Paying Agent, any authenticating agent, any Conversion Agent, any Note Registrar and their successors hereunder and the holders of Notes any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
. Benefits of Indenture.
Section 15.09The table of contents and the titles and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
. Table of Contents, Headings, etc.
Section 15.10The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent that shall be authorized to act on its behalf, and subject to its direction, in the authentication and delivery of Notes in connection with the original issuance thereof and transfers and exchanges of Notes hereunder, including under Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 3.03 and 3.05, as fully to all intents and purposes as though the authenticating agent had been expressly authorized by this Indenture and those Sections to authenticate and deliver Notes.
. Authenticating Agent.
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, the authentication and delivery of Notes by the authenticating agent shall be deemed to be authentication and delivery of such Notes "by the Trustee" and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an authenticating agent shall be deemed to satisfy any requirement hereunder or in the Notes for the Trustee's certificate of authentication. Such authenticating agent shall at all times be a Person eligible to serve as trustee hereunder pursuant to Section 7.09.
Any corporation into which any authenticating agent may be merged or exchanged or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, consolidation or exchange to which any authenticating agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate trust business of any authenticating agent, shall be the successor of the authenticating agent hereunder, if such successor corporation is otherwise eligible under this Section 15.10, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the parties hereto or the authenticating agent or such successor corporation.
Any authenticating agent may at any time resign by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Issuer. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of any authenticating agent by giving written notice of termination to such authenticating agent and to the Issuer. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time any authenticating agent shall cease to be eligible under this Section, the Trustee shall either promptly appoint a successor authenticating agent or itself assume the duties and obligations of the former authenticating agent under this Indenture and, upon such appointment of a successor authenticating agent, if made, shall give written notice of such appointment of a successor authenticating agent to the Issuer and shall mail notice of such appointment of a successor authenticating agent to all holders of Notes as the names and addresses of such holders appear on the Note Register.
The Issuer agrees to pay to the authenticating agent from time to time such reasonable compensation for its services as shall be agreed upon in writing between the Issuer and the authenticating agent.
The provisions of Sections 7.02, 7.03, 7.04 and 8.03 and this Section 15.10 shall be applicable to any authenticating agent.
Section 15.11This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
. Execution in Counterparts.
Section 15.12In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, then (to the extent permitted
. Severability.
 
by law) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
U.S. Bank National Association hereby accepts the trusts in this Indenture declared and provided, upon the terms and conditions herein above set forth.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
VENTAS, INC.
3
 7
/
8
% CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTES DUE 2011
 
Ventas, Inc., a Delaware company (herein called the "Issuer," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof), for value received hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or its registered assigns, the principal sum of [INSERT AMOUNT OF NOTES] DOLLARS on November 15, 2011 at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, and to pay interest, semi-annually, on May 15 and November 15 of each year (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), commencing May 15, 2007, on said principal sum at said office or agency, in like coin or currency, at the rate per annum of 3
 7
/
8
%, from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest has been paid (or commencing December 1, 2006 if no interest has been paid hereon).
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, including, without limitation, provisions giving the holder of this Note the right to convert this Note in the manner specified in the Indenture. Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
This Note shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been manually signed by the Trustee or a duly authorized authenticating agent under the Indenture.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this Note to be duly executed.
Dated: [                    ]
 
 
This is one of the Notes described in the within-named Indenture.
 
Dated:
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (THE "DEPOSITARY," WHICH TERM INCLUDES ANY SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY FOR THE CERTIFICATES) TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREIN IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT "), AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY, EXCEPT (A) TO THE ISSUER OR A SUBSIDIARY OF THE ISSUER; OR (B) TO A PERSON THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) THAT IS PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ANOTHER QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, ALL IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A (IF AVAILABLE).
PURSUANT TO SECTION 1271 ET SEQ. OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED, THIS SECURITY HAS BEEN ISSUED WITH ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT. TO OBTAIN (I) THE ISSUE PRICE OF THIS SECURITY, (II) THE AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT, (III) THE ISSUE DATE, OR (IV) THE YIELD TO MATURITY, CONTACT VICE PRESIDENT-TAX AT 10350 ORMSBY PARK PLACE, SUITE 300, LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY 40223, OR BY PHONE AT (502) 357-9000.
 
This note is one of a duly authorized issue of notes of the Issuer, designated as its "3
 7
/
8
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011" (herein called the "Notes"), issued under and pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of December 1, 2006 (herein called the "Indenture"), among the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the holders of the Notes. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Note shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.
The Issuer shall have the right to redeem the Notes at its option in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of the Indenture in order to preserve its status as a real estate investment trust. If the Issuer determines it is necessary to redeem the Notes in order to preserve its status as a real estate investment trust, the Issuer may redeem the Notes for cash, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon to the Redemption Date. In accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, the Issuer may not otherwise redeem the Notes at its option prior to the Stated Maturity thereof.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture, following the occurrence of a Change in Control at any time prior to the Stated Maturity of the Notes, the Notes shall be subject to repurchase by the Issuer, at the option of the holder, on the Change in Control Repurchase Date, at a Change in Control Purchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased plus unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon to the Change in Control Repurchase Date. To exercise such right, the holder shall be required to satisfy the conditions to such repurchase set forth in the Indenture and to deliver to the Paying Agent the Repurchase Notice set forth on the reverse hereof prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change in Control Repurchase Date.
The Issuer may not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price for such Notes).
Holders have the right to withdraw any Repurchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal at any time prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change in Control Repurchase Date, all as provided in the Indenture.
Subject to and in compliance with the provisions of the Indenture, holders of Notes shall have the right to convert each $1,000 principal amount of Notes at the applicable Conversion Rate into the consideration specified in the Indenture,
 
upon surrender of the Note to be converted with the form entitled "Conversion Notice" on the reverse hereof duly completed and manually signed, to the Issuer at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in The City of New York in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, together with any funds required pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. The Conversion Rate shall initially be 22.1867 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustment in the manner set forth in the Indenture.
Notes surrendered for conversion at any time after the close of business on any applicable Record Date for the payment of interest and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date must be accompanied by payment, in immediately available funds or other funds acceptable to the Issuer, of an amount equal to the interest otherwise payable on such Interest Payment Date on the principal amount being converted; , that no such payment shall be required (1) if the Issuer has specified a Redemption Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, (2) to the extent of any overdue interest, if any overdue interest that exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Notes, (3) in respect of any conversion that occurs after the Record Date for the interest payment due on November 15, 2011 or (4) if the Issuer has specified a Change in Control Repurchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
provided
Subject to the Issuer's right to adjust the Conversion Rate and conversion obligation upon a Public Acquirer Change in Control, pursuant to Section 13.13(h), in the event the holder surrenders this Note for conversion in connection with a Change in Control resulting from a transaction described in clause (1) or (2) of the definition of such term, the Issuer shall increase the applicable Conversion Rate in accordance with the provisions of Section 13.13 of the Indenture.
In the event that the Issuer elects to deliver shares of Common Stock upon conversion of Notes, no fractional shares shall be issued upon such conversion, but an adjustment and payment in cash shall be made, as provided in the Indenture, in respect of any fraction of a share which would otherwise be issuable upon such conversion.
A Note in respect of which a holder has submitted a Repurchase Notice may be converted only if such holder validly withdraws such Repurchase Notice in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(h), 6.01(i) and 6.01(j) of the Indenture) shall occur and be continuing, the principal of, and accrued and unpaid interest on, the Notes may be declared to be due and payable in the manner specified in the Indenture. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(h), 6.01(i) or 6.01(j) of the Indenture shall occur with
 
respect to the Issuer or a Significant Subsidiary of the Issuer, the principal of, and interest accrued and unpaid on, the Notes shall be immediately and automatically due and payable without necessity of further action. Subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may, on behalf of the holders of all of the Notes, waive any past default or Event of Default, subject to exceptions set forth in the Indenture. Upon any such waiver, said default shall for all purposes of this Note and the Indenture be deemed to have been cured and to be not continuing, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, to execute supplemental indentures to modify provisions of the Indenture, subject to exceptions permitting the modification of the Indenture without the consent of any holder of Notes or requiring the consent of each holder of a Note affected by such modification all as set forth in Article 9 of the Indenture.
The Notes are issuable in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and any multiple of $1,000. At the office or agency of the Issuer referred to on the face hereof, and in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture, without payment of any service charge but with payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes, Notes may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of any other authorized denominations. Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Note to the Note Registrar or any co-registrar, and satisfaction of the requirements for such transfer set forth in the Indenture, the Issuer shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Notes of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and bearing such restrictive legends as may be required by the Indenture. No service charge shall be made to any holder for any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes, but the Issuer may require payment by the holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes.
The Issuer, the Trustee, any Paying Agent, any Conversion Agent and any Note Registrar may deem the Person in whose name this Note shall be registered upon the Note Register to be, and may treat it as, the absolute owner of this Note (whether or not this Note shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing thereon made by any Person other than the Issuer or any Note Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal of, and interest on this Note, for conversion of this Note and for all other
 
purposes; and neither the Issuer or the Trustee nor any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or any Note Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments so made to any holder for the time being, or upon its order, shall be valid, and, to the extent of the sum or sums so paid, effectual to satisfy and discharge the liability for monies payable upon any this Note.
No recourse for the payment of the principal of or interest on this Note, or for any claim based hereon or otherwise in respect hereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Issuer or the Subsidiary Guarantors in the Indenture or any supplemental indenture or in any Note or the Subsidiary Guarantees or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented hereby, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, partner, member, manager, employee, agent, officer, director or subsidiary (other than the Subsidiary Guarantors), as such, past, present or future, of the Issuer or any of the Issuer's Subsidiaries or of any successor thereto, either directly or through the Issuer or any of the Issuer's Subsidiaries or of any successor thereto, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the execution of the Indenture and the issue of this Note.
In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this Note and the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall control. The Indenture and this Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
In addition to the rights provided to holders of Notes under the Indenture, holders shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2006, between the Issuer and the Initial Purchasers named therein.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription of the face of this Note, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations.
 
 
 
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Conversion Agent
The undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby irrevocably exercises the option to convert this Note, or the portion thereof (which is $1,000 or a multiple thereof) below designated, into cash and, at the election of the shares of Common Stock, as applicable, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Note, and directs that the shares, if any, issuable and deliverable upon such conversion, together with any check in payment for cash, if any, payable upon conversion or for fractional shares and any Notes representing any unconverted principal amount hereof, be issued and delivered to the registered holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture. If shares or any portion of this Note not converted are to be issued in the name of a person other than the undersigned, the undersigned shall provide the appropriate information below and pay all transfer taxes payable with respect thereto. Any amount required to be paid by the undersigned on account of interest accompanies this Note.
Dated:
                                
 
 
 
Fill in the registration of shares of Common Stock, if any, if to be issued, and Notes if to be delivered, and the person to whom cash and payment for fractional shares is to be made, if to be made, other than to and in the name of the registered holder:
 
NOTICE: The signature on this Conversion Notice must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 
 
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Paying Agent
The undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby irrevocably acknowledges receipt of a notice from the Issuer regarding the right of holders to elect to require the Issuer to repurchase the Notes and requests and instructs the Issuer to repay the entire principal amount of this Note, or the portion thereof (which is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, in cash, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture at the price of 100% of such entire principal amount or portion thereof specified below, plus unpaid interest, if any, accrued thereon to the Repurchase Date to the registered holder hereof. Capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture. The Notes shall be repurchased by the Issuer as of the Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Indenture.
NOTICE: The above signatures of the holder(s) hereof must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
Note Certificate Number:
                        
Principal amount to be repurchased (if less than all, must be $1,000 or whole multiples thereof):
                            
Social Security or Other Taxpayer Identification Number:
                    
Dated:
                    
 
 
 
For value received hereby sell(s) assign(s) and transfer(s) unto (Please insert social security or other Taxpayer Identification Number of assignee) the within Note, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Issuer, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                                                 
                                                     
                                                         
In connection with any transfer of the Note prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision) (other than any transfer pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act), the undersigned confirms that such Note is being transferred:
 
 
 
 
Unless one of the boxes is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the Notes evidenced by this certificate in the name of any person other than the registered holder thereof.
Dated:
                    
 
 
NOTICE: The signature on this Assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 
 
 
For value received, each Subsidiary Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed to the extent set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Indenture dated as of December 1, 2006 (as it may be amended and supplemented from time to time, the "") among Ventas, Inc. (the ""), the Subsidiary Guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), providing for the issuance of 3
Indenture
Issuer
Trustee
 7
/
8
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on the Notes (as defined in the Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Issuer to the Noteholders (as defined in the Indenture) or the Trustee, all in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors to the Noteholders and to the Trustee pursuant to the Subsidiary Guarantee and the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article 14 of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Subsidiary Guarantee. Each Noteholder, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions.
December 1, 2006
 
EXHIBIT B
This Supplemental Indenture, dated as of [] (this "" or ""), among [name of future Subsidiary Guarantor] (the ""), Ventas, Inc. (together with its successors and assigns, the ""), each other then existing Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture referred to below, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee under the Indenture referred to below.
                    
Supplemental Indenture
Guarantee
Guarantor
Issuer
WHEREAS, the Issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of December 1, 2006 (as amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified, the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance of 3
 7
/
8
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 of the Issuer (the "Notes");
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee and the Company are authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture to amend the Indenture, without the consent of any Noteholder;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guarantor, the Issuer, the other Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Noteholders as follows:
Section 1.01As used in this Supplemental Indenture, terms defined in the Indenture or in the preamble or recital hereto are used herein as therein defined, except that the term "Noteholders" in this Guarantee shall refer to the term "Noteholders" as defined in the Indenture and the Trustee acting on behalf or for the benefit of such Noteholders. The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereby" and other words of similar import used in this Supplemental Indenture refer to this Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular section hereof.
. Defined Terms.
 
Section 2.01The Guarantor hereby becomes a party to the Indenture as a Subsidiary Guarantor and as such will have all of the rights and be subject to all of the obligations and agreements of a Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture. The Guarantor agrees to be bound by all of the provisions of the Indenture applicable to a Subsidiary Guarantor and to perform all of the obligations and agreements of a Subsidiary Guarantor under the Indenture.
. Agreement to be Bound.
Section 2.02The Guarantor fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to each holder of the Notes and the Trustee the Obligations pursuant to Article 14 of the Indenture on a senior basis. To evidence its guarantee, the Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of its Subsidiary Guarantee substantially in the form attached to the form of Note set forth in to the Indenture will be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee. The Guarantor further agrees that its Subsidiary Guarantee shall remain in full force an defect notwithstanding any failure to so endorse each Note.
. Guarantee.
Exhibit A
Section 3.01All notices and other communications to the Guarantor shall be given as provided in the Indenture to the Guarantor, at its address set forth below, with a copy to the Issuer as provided in the Indenture for notices to the Issuer.
. Notices.
Section 3.02Nothing expressed or mentioned herein is intended or shall be construed to give any Person, other than the Noteholders and the Trustee, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture or any provision herein or therein contained.
. Parties.
Section 3.03.. This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
Section 3.04. . In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability.
Severability Clause
 
Section 3.05. . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every Noteholder heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby. The Trustee makes no representation or warranty as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture.
Ratification of Indenture; Supplemental Indentures Part of Indenture
Section 3.06. . The parties hereto may sign one or more copies of this Supplemental Indenture in counterparts, all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
Section 3.07. . The headings of the Articles and the sections in this Guarantee are for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 

Exhibit 4.2
December 1, 2006
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
As Representatives of the several Initial Purchasers
listed in to the Purchase Agreement
Schedule A
c/o Banc of America Securities LLC
9 West 57
th
Street
New York, New York 10019
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
277 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10172
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Ventas, Inc., a Delaware company (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to certain purchasers (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, its 3
 7
/
8
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "Notes"), upon the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement by and among the Company and the Representatives, dated November 27, 2006 (the "Purchase Agreement"), relating to the initial placement (the "Initial Placement") of the Notes. In certain circumstances, the Notes will be convertible into shares of common stock, $0.25 par value (the "Common Stock"), of the Company. The Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the Subsidiary Guarantors, until certain conditions specified in the Indenture are met. To induce the Initial Purchasers to satisfy their obligations under the Purchase Agreement, the holders of the Notes will have the benefit of this registration rights agreement by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers whereby the Company agrees with you for your benefit and the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Notes and/or Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes (including the Initial Purchasers) (each a "Holder" and, collectively, the "Holders"), as follows:
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
"Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
"Additional Interest" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.
"Affiliate" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 405 under the Act.
"Automatic Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a Shelf Registration Statement filed by a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer which shall become effective upon filing thereof pursuant to General Instruction I.D for Form S-3.
"Broker-Dealer" shall mean any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act.
"Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York City.
"Closing Date" shall mean the date of the first issuance of the Notes.
"Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Control" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 405 under the Act and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative thereto.
"Conversion Price" shall have the meaning specified in the Indenture.
"Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
"Final Memorandum" shall mean the offering memorandum, dated November 27, 2006, relating to the Notes, including any and all annexes thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein as of such date.
"Holder" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Indenture" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Notes, dated as of December 1, 2006, by and among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
"Initial Placement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Initial Purchasers" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Interest Payment Date" shall mean May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning May 15, 2007.
"Losses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(d) hereof.
"Majority Holders" shall mean, on any date, Holders of a majority of the Common Stock registered under the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
"Managing Underwriters" shall mean the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that administer an underwritten offering, if any, conducted pursuant to Section 6 hereof.
"NASD Rules" shall mean the Conduct Rules and the By-Laws of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
"Notes" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
"Notice and Questionnaire" shall mean a written notice delivered to the Company substantially in the form attached as Appendix A to the Final Memorandum.
"Notice Holder" shall mean, on any date, any Holder that has delivered a Notice and Questionnaire, which provides the information required in such Notice and Questionnaire, to the Company on or prior to such date.
"Prospectus" shall mean a prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A or Rule 430B under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Common Stock covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein.
"Purchase Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
"Registrable Securities" shall mean shares of Common Stock initially issuable upon conversion of the Notes initially sold to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, other than shares of Common Stock that have (i) been registered under the Shelf Registration Statement and disposed of in accordance therewith, (ii) have been sold in compliance with Rule 144 or have become eligible to be sold (by persons who are not Affiliates of the Company) without restriction as contemplated by Rule 144(k) under the Act or any successor rule or regulation thereto that may be adopted by the Commission or (iii) ceased to be outstanding.
"Shelf Registration Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(c) hereof.
"Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 hereof which covers some or all of the Common Stock on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"Subsidiary Guarantor" shall have the meaning specified in the Indenture.
"Suspension Period" shall have the meaning indicated in Section 3(i) hereof.
 
"Underwriter" shall mean any underwriter of Common Stock in connection with an offering thereof under the Shelf Registration Statement.
"Well-Known Seasoned Issuer" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Act.
2. . (a) The Company shall, not later than 120 days after the Closing Date, file with the Commission a Shelf Registration Statement (which shall be, if the Company is then a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer, an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement) providing for the registration of, and the sale on a continuous or delayed basis by the Holders of, all of the Registrable Securities, from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by such Holders, pursuant to Rule 415 under the Act or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission.
Shelf Registration
(b) If the Shelf Registration Statement is not an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become or be declared effective under the Act no later than 180 days after the Closing Date.
(c) The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period (the "Shelf Registration Period") from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission (or becomes effective in the case of an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement) until the earlier of (i) the 20
th
Trading Day (as defined in the Indenture) immediately following the maturity date of the Notes or (ii) the date upon which there are no Registrable Securities outstanding. The Company shall be deemed not to have used its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Shelf Registration Period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Registrable Securities not being able to offer and sell such Common Stock at any time during the Shelf Registration Period, unless such action is (x) required by applicable law or (y) permitted by Section 3(i) hereof.
(d) The Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, (i) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Act; and (ii) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
(e) Subject to applicable law, the Company shall issue a press release through a reputable national newswire service announcing the anticipated effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement at least 15 Business Days prior to the anticipated effective date thereof; that if the Company designates a previously filed and effective Shelf Registration Statement for use by Holders, in lieu of the foregoing notice, the Company shall provide notice of its designation of such Shelf Registration Statement and the date on which it will first make
provided
 
available for use by the Holders a Prospectus thereunder at least 15 Business Days prior to such date. Each Holder of Registrable Securities agrees to deliver a Notice and Questionnaire and such other information as the Company may reasonably request in writing, if any, to the Company at least 10 Business Days prior to the anticipated effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement as announced in the press release or, if the Company shall designate an effective Shelf Registration Statement for use by the Holders, at least 10 Business Days prior to date of the initial Prospectus made available to the Holders. From and after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts, as promptly as is reasonably practicable after the date a Notice and Questionnaire is delivered, and in any event within 10 Business Days after that date, except in the case of a post-effective amendment, within 30 days after such date, and, in the case of a new Shelf Registration Statement, within 60 days after such date (i) if required by applicable law, to file with the Commission a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or a new Shelf Registration Statement ( that the Company shall not be required to file more than three post-effective amendments in any fiscal quarter in accordance with this Section 2(e)(i)) or to prepare and, if permitted or required by applicable law, to file a supplement to the related Prospectus or an amendment or supplement to any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire is named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus, and so that such Holder is permitted to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of the Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law and, if the Company shall file a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or a new Shelf Registration Statement, use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such post-effective amendment or new Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Act as promptly as is practicable; (ii) provide such Holder, upon request, copies of any documents filed pursuant to Section 2(e)(i) hereof; and (iii) notify such Holder as promptly as practicable after the effectiveness under the Act of any post-effective amendment or new Shelf Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2(e)(i) hereof; that if such Notice and Questionnaire is delivered during a Suspension Period, or within five (5) Business Days of the commencement of a Suspension Period, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire and shall take the actions set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above within 10 Business Days upon expiration of the Suspension Period in accordance with Section 3(i) hereof. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Company shall be under no obligation to name any Holder that is not a Notice Holder as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus; , , that any Holder that becomes a Notice Holder pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(e) (whether or not such Holder was a Notice Holder at the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement) shall be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus in accordance with the requirements of this Section 2(e). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if (A) the Notes are called for redemption and the then prevailing market price of the Common Stock is above the Conversion Price or (B) the Notes are converted as provided for in Section 13.01(i), 13.01(ii) or 13.01(iv) of the Indenture, then the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to file the post-effective amendment or supplement within 10 Business Days of the redemption date or the end of the conversion period, as applicable, or if such Notice and Questionnaire is delivered during a Suspension Period, upon expiration of the Suspension Period.
provided
provided
provided
however
 
3. . The following provisions shall apply in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement.
Registration Procedures
(a) The Company shall:
(i) furnish to each of the Representatives and to a single counsel for the Notice Holders, not less than four Business Days prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, subject to compliance with applicable law and customary confidentiality arrangements, a copy of the Shelf Registration Statement and each amendment thereto and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein (including all documents incorporated by reference therein after the initial filing, other than any periodic reports under the Exchange Act) and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to reflect in each such document, when so filed with the Commission, such comments as the Representatives reasonably propose on a timely basis; and
(ii) include information regarding the Notice Holders and the methods of distribution they have elected for their Registrable Securities provided to the Company in Notices and Questionnaires as necessary to permit such distribution by the methods specified therein.
(b) The Company shall ensure that:
(i) the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the Act; and
(ii) the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
(c) The Company shall advise the Representatives, the Notice Holders and any underwriter that has provided in writing to the Company a telephone or facsimile number and address for notices, and confirm such advice in writing, if requested (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension):
(i) when the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when the Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
(ii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus or for additional information;
 
(iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the institution or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose;
(iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Common Stock included therein for sale in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and
(v) of the happening of any event that requires any change in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus so that, as of such date, they (A) do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact and (B) do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
(d) The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the qualification of the Common Stock registered thereunder for sale in any jurisdiction and, if issued, to obtain as soon as practicable the withdrawal thereof. The Company shall undertake additional reasonable actions as required to permit unrestricted resales of the Common Stock in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(e) Upon request, the Company shall furnish to each Notice Holder, without charge, at least one copy of the Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated therein by reference, and, if a Notice Holder so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
(f) During the Shelf Registration Period, the Company shall promptly deliver to each Initial Purchaser, each Notice Holder, and any sales or placement agents or underwriters acting on their behalf, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including the preliminary Prospectus, if any) included in the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as any such person may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the foregoing in connection with the offering and sale of the Common Stock.
(g) Prior to any offering of Common Stock pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to arrange for the qualification, to the extent required by law, of the Common Stock for sale under the laws of such U.S. jurisdictions as any Notice Holder shall reasonably request and shall maintain such qualification in effect so long as required; that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits or taxation, other than those arising out of the Initial Placement or any offering pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
 
(h) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (c)(ii) through (v) above, the Company shall promptly (or within the time period provided for by Section 3(i) hereof, if applicable) prepare a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to subsequent purchasers of the securities included therein, the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(i) Upon the occurrence or existence of any pending corporate development, public filings with the Commission or any other material event that, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus, the Company shall give notice (without notice of the nature or details of such events) to the Notice Holders that the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement is suspended and, upon receipt of any such notice, each Notice Holder agrees (i) not to offer or sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until such Notice Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in Section 3(i) hereof, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus and (ii) to hold such notice in confidence. Except in the case of a suspension of the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus solely as the result of the filing of a post-effective amendment or supplement to the Prospectus to add additional selling securityholders therein, the period during which the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and any Prospectus is suspended (the "Suspension Period") shall not exceed 30 days in any three-month period or 90 days in any 12-month period.
(j) The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and shall make generally available to its securityholders an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act as soon as practicable after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement and in any event no later than 45 days after the end of a 12-month period (or 90 days, if such period is a fiscal year) beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement.
(k) The Company may require each Holder of Common Stock to be sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of such Common Stock as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement. The Company may exclude from the Shelf Registration Statement the Common Stock of any Holder that fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
(l) Subject to Section 6 hereof, the Company shall negotiate in good faith and enter into customary agreements (including, if requested, an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take all other appropriate actions as are reasonably requested by the Managing Underwriters in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of the
 
Common Stock, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain customary indemnification provisions and procedures.
(m) Subject to Section 6 hereof, the Company shall:
(i) make reasonably available for inspection by the Holders of Common Stock to be registered thereunder, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the Holders or any such underwriter, at the offices where normally kept, during normal business hours, all relevant financial and other records and pertinent corporate documents of the Company and its subsidiaries as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise any applicable due diligence responsibilities;
(ii) cause the Company's officers, directors, employees, accountants and auditors to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the Holders or any such underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations;
(iii) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of Common Stock registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement;
(iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Managing Underwriters, if any) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
(v) obtain "comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Shelf Registration Statement), addressed to each selling Holder of Common Stock registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings; and
(vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Majority Holders or the Managing Underwriters, if any, including those to evidence compliance with Section 3(i) hereof and with any
 
customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company.
Subject to Section 6 hereof, the actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of this paragraph (m) shall be performed in connection with any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder.
(n) In the event that any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any Common Stock or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the NASD Rules) thereof, whether as a Holder of such Common Stock or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, the Company shall, upon the reasonable request of such Broker-Dealer, comply with any such reasonable request of such Broker-Dealer in complying with the NASD Rules.
(o) The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Common Stock covered by the Shelf Registration Statement.
4. . The Company shall bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 2 and 3 hereof; provided, however, that the Company shall not be responsible for the payment of any underwriting discounts or commissions with respect to any Registrable Securities sold by or on behalf of any Holder.
Registration Expenses
5. . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Common Stock covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, the directors and officers of each such Holder and each person who controls any such Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) are caused by or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Shelf Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or caused by or based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability is caused by or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the party claiming indemnification specifically for inclusion therein.
Indemnification and Contribution
provided
however
 
The Company also agrees to indemnify as provided in this Section 5(a) or contribute as provided in Section 5(d) hereof to Losses of each underwriter, if any, of Common Stock registered under the Shelf Registration Statement, its directors and officers and each person who controls such underwriter on substantially the same basis as that of the indemnification of the selling Holders provided in this paragraph (a) and shall, if requested by any Holder, enter into an underwriting agreement reflecting such agreement, as provided in Section 3(l) hereof.
(b) Each Holder of securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs the Shelf Registration Statement and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each such Holder, but only with reference to written information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement shall be acknowledged by each Notice Holder in such Notice Holder's Notice and Questionnaire and shall be in addition to any liability that any such Notice Holder may otherwise have.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 5 or notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 5, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses; and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies an indemnifying party of the commencement of such action, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in such action, and to the extent it may elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense of such action. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party, retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those
provided
however
 
available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any claim or action effected without its written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
(d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 5 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, then each applicable indemnifying party shall have a joint and several obligation to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending loss, claim, liability, damage or action) (collectively "Losses") to which such indemnified party may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, from the Shelf Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses; , , that in no case shall any underwriter be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the securities purchased by such underwriter under the Shelf Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the Initial Placement (before deducting expenses) as set forth in the Final Memorandum. Benefits received by any other Holders shall be deemed to be equal to the value of receiving Common Stock registered under the Act. Benefits received by any underwriter shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus forming a part of the Shelf Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the indemnifying party, on the one hand, or by the indemnified party, on the other hand, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 5, each person who controls a Holder within the
provided
however
 
meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of such Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Shelf Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
(e) The provisions of this Section 5 shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any of the indemnified persons referred to in this Section 5, and shall survive the sale by a Holder of securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement.
6. . (a) In no event will the method of distribution of Registrable Securities take the form of an underwritten offering without the prior written consent of the Company. Consent may be conditioned on waivers of any of the obligations in Section 3, Section 4 or Section 5.
Underwritten Registrations
(b) If any shares of Common Stock covered by the Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Managing Underwriters shall be selected by the Company, subject to the prior written consent of the Majority Holders, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(c) No person may participate in any underwritten offering pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement unless such person (i) agrees to sell such person's shares of Common Stock on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements; and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
7. . If any of the following events shall occur, then the Company shall pay additional interest on the Notes ( "Additional Interest") to the Holders of Notes then outstanding as follows:
Registration Defaults
(a) if the Shelf Registration Statement (which shall be, if the Company is then a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer, an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement) is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the 120th day following the Closing Date and the Company does not have on file with the Commission an effective Shelf Registration Statement covering resales of the Registrable Securities, then commencing on the 121st day following the Closing Date, Additional Interest shall accrue on the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Notes, at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days from and including such 121st day following the Closing Date and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or
(b) if the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective by the Commission (or has not become effective in the case of an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement) on or prior to the 180th day following the Closing Date or an effective Shelf Registration Statement covering resales of the Registrable Securities is otherwise not made available for use by Holders by such date, then commencing on the 181st day after the Closing
 
Date, Additional Interest shall accrue on the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Notes, at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days from and including such 181st day and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or
(c) if any Holder supplies a Notice and Questionnaire after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or the date after which the Company first makes available an effective Shelf Registration Statement for use by Holders, and the Company fails to supplement or amend such Shelf Registration Statement, or file a new Shelf Registration Statement, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, in order to add such Holder as a selling securityholder, then Additional Interest shall accrue on the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Notes, at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days from the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or the date an effective Shelf Registration Statement is made available and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or
(d) if the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared or become effective but ceases to be effective (without being succeeded immediately by an additional Shelf Registration Statement that is filed and immediately becomes effective) or usable for the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities, other than in connection with (A) a Suspension Period or (B) as a result of a requirement to file a post-effective amendment or supplement to the Prospectus to make changes to the information regarding selling securityholders or the plan of distribution provided for therein, at any time during the Shelf Registration Period and (1) the Company does not cure the lapse of effectiveness or usability within 10 Business Days (or, if a Suspension Period is then in effect and subject to the 10 Business Day filing requirement and the proviso regarding the filing of post-effective amendments and new Shelf Registration Statements in Section 2(e) with respect to any Notice and Questionnaire received during such period, within 10 Business Days following the expiration of such Suspension Period or period permitted pursuant to Section 2(e)) by filing a post-effective amendment, prospectus supplement or report filed pursuant to the Exchange Act or (2) the aggregate duration of Suspension Periods in any period exceeds the number of days permitted in respect of such period pursuant to Section 3(i) hereof, then Additional Interest shall accrue on the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Notes commencing on the day following the tenth Business Day, with respect to clause (1) above, or the day the aggregate duration of Suspension Periods in any period exceeds the number of days permitted in respect of such period, with respect to clause (2) above, at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days from and including such date, and 0.50% thereafter; or
(e) if the Company through its omission fails to name as a selling securityholder any Holder that had complied timely with its obligations hereunder in a manner to entitle such Holder to be so named in (i) the Shelf Registration Statement or any amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement at the time it first became effective or (ii) any Prospectus at the later of time of filing thereof or the time the Shelf Registration Statement or amendment of which the Prospectus forms a part becomes effective then Additional Interest shall accrue, on the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Notes, at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days from and including the day following the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or the time of filing of such Prospectus, as the case may be, and 0.50% per annum thereafter;
 
, , that (1) upon the filing of the Shelf Registration Statement (in the case of paragraph (a) above), (2) upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement (in the case of paragraph (b) above), (3) upon such time as the Shelf Registration Statement which had ceased to remain effective or usable for resales again becomes effective and usable for resales (in the case of paragraph (d) above), (4) upon the time such Holder is permitted to sell its Registrable Securities pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus in accordance with applicable law (in the case of paragraphs (c) or (e) above), (5) upon the termination of the Suspension Period that caused the limit on the aggregate duration of Suspension Periods in a period set forth in Section 3(i) to be exceeded (in the case of paragraph (d) above), or (6) in any case, notwithstanding the preceding clauses (1) through (5), upon the earlier of the two dates provided in clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 2(c), Additional Interest shall cease to accrue.
provided
however
Any amounts of Additional Interest due pursuant to this Section 7 will be payable in cash on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date to Holders entitled to receive such Additional Interest on the relevant record dates for the payment of interest. If any Note ceases to be outstanding during any period for which Additional Interest is accruing, the Company will prorate the Additional Interest payable with respect to such Note.
The Additional Interest rate on the Notes shall not exceed in the aggregate 0.50% per annum and shall not be payable under more than one clause above for any given period of time, except that if Additional Interest would be payable because of more than one Registration Default, but at a rate of 0.25% per annum under one Registration Default and at a rate of 0.50% per annum under the other, then the Additional Interest rate shall be the higher rate of 0.50% per annum.
Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement, in no event shall Additional Interest accrue to holders of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes, if any. In lieu thereof, the Company shall increase the Conversion Rate (as defined in the Indenture) by 3% for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes converted at a time when such Registration Default has occurred and is continuing.
8. . The Company has not entered into, and agrees not to enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the registration rights granted to the Holders herein.
No Inconsistent Agreements
9. . So long as any Registrable Securities remain outstanding, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to file the reports required to be filed by it under Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Act and the Exchange Act in a timely manner. The Company covenants and agrees that it shall, during any period in which it is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) under the Exchange Act, make available to any holder or beneficial holder of Notes or any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof which continue to be Registrable Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of Notes or such shares of Common Stock designated by such holder or beneficial holder, the information required pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act upon the request of any holder or beneficial holder of the Notes or such shares of Common Stock, all to the extent required to enable such holder or beneficial holder to sell its Notes or shares of Common Stock without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the
Rule 144A and Rule 144
 
exemption provided by Rule 144A. The availability of the materials required to be furnished pursuant to this Section 9 on the Commission's Web site or on the Issuer's Web site shall be deemed to satisfy the delivery obligations set forth in this Section 9.
10. . The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to maintain the approval of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes for listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
Listing
11. . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders; that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser against which such amendment, qualification, modification, supplement, waiver or consent is to be effective; , , that no amendment, qualification, modification, supplement, waiver or consent with respect to Section 7 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registrable Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder; and , , that the provisions of this Article 11 may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Initial Purchasers and each Holder.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
provided
further
provided
further
12. . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail, telex, telecopier or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices
(a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such holder to the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Notice and Questionnaire;
(b) if to the Initial Purchasers or the Representatives, initially at the address or addresses set forth in the Purchase Agreement; and
(c) if to the Company, initially at its address set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when received.
The Initial Purchasers, the Company by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, notices given to Holders holding Notes in book-entry form may be given through the facilities of DTC or any successor depository.
13. . Each Holder, in addition to being entitled to exercise all rights provided to it herein or in the Purchase Agreement or granted by law, including recovery of liquidated or other damages, will be entitled to specific performance of its rights under this Agreement. The Company agrees that monetary damages would not be adequate compensation
Remedies
 
for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by them of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agree to waive in any action for specific performance the defense that a remedy at law would be adequate.
14. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of Common Stock, and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 5 hereof. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of Common Stock, and any such Holder may specifically enforce the provisions of this Agreement as if an original party hereto.
Successors
15. . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
16. . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
17. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York. The parties hereto each hereby waive any right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim arising out of or relating to this Agreement.
Applicable Law
18. . In the event that any one of more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
19. . Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of principal amount of Common Stock is required hereunder, Common Stock held by the Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Common Stock if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Common Stock) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Common Stock Held by the Company, etc
20. . The Holders shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Representatives, on the other hand, and each of them shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent it deems such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of the Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiary
 
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and
accepted as of the date first above written.
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Ventas, Inc.    10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300    Louisville, Kentucky 40223    (502) 3579000    (502) 3579001 Fax
.
.
 
 
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.395 per share, payable in cash on January 12, 2007, to stockholders of record on January 2, 2007. The dividend is the fourth quarterly installment of the Company's $1.58 per share 2006 annual dividend. This fourth quarterly installment of the 2006 dividend will be included in shareholders' 2007 dividend income for income tax purposes.
LOUISVILLE, KY (December 5, 2006)
Ventas, Inc. is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. Its diverse portfolio of properties located in 43 states includes independent and assisted living facilities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals and medical office buildings. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at .
http://www.ventasreit.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding Ventas, Inc.'s ("Ventas" or the "Company") and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that may affect the Company's plans or results include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's operators, tenants, borrowers and other third parties to meet and/or perform the obligations under their various contractual arrangements with the Company; (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred"), Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Brookdale") and Alterra Healthcare Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, "Alterra") to meet and/or perform their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold the Company harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities under the Company's respective contractual arrangements with Kindred, Brookdale and Alterra; (c) the ability of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities; (d) the Company's success in implementing
 
Ventas Declares Regular Quarterly
Dividend of $0.395 Per Share
December 5, 2006
Page 2
 
its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (e) the nature and extent of future competition; (f) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (g) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing; (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients; (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete; (k) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of and the accounting for the Company's interest rate swap agreement; (m) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (n) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2006; (o) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases, including without limitation Kindred's willingness to renew any or all of its bundles of leased properties expiring in 2008, and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of such changes on the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred and the Company's earnings; and (q) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, and the ability of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers to accurately estimate the magnitude of such liabilities. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 


