FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20070105145657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") has entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of December 28, 2006 (the "New Employment Agreement") with Debra A. Cafaro, pursuant to which Ms. Cafaro will continue to serve as President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of the Company. The New Employment Agreement amends and restates the existing Employment Agreement dated March 5, 1999 (the "March 1999 Employment Agreement") between the parties. The following summary describes certain material provisions of the New Employment Agreement.
The term of Ms. Cafaro's employment under the New Employment Agreement began on the date of its execution and will continue until Ms. Cafaro's employment is terminated or the New Employment Agreement is amended. The New Employment Agreement provides Ms. Cafaro with a base salary of not less than $600,000 per year, subject to increases, if any, as determined by the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. The New Employment Agreement also provides Ms. Cafaro the ability to be eligible for bonuses and incentive compensation as the Board of Directors may approve from time to time and to participate in the Company's incentive and other employee benefit plans. With respect to her services rendered during 2007, Ms. Cafaro will receive an annual bonus in cash of $2.1 million and a package of long-term incentives having a total value at grant of $5.4 million that will vest or be payable over time. She will receive these amounts in a lump sum if her employment is terminated by the Company without Cause (as defined in the New Employment Agreement) or by Ms. Cafaro for Good Reason (as defined in the New Employment Agreement) prior to the time that they would otherwise be paid.
If Ms. Cafaro's employment is terminated by reason of death or disability, she is entitled to receive a prorated portion of her Target Bonus (as defined below) for the year of termination. If Ms. Cafaro's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause (but not for disability) or if Ms. Cafaro terminates her employment for Good Reason, she is entitled to receive a lump sum payment equal to (i) the prorated portion of her Target Bonus for the year of termination, plus (ii) three times the sum of her base salary as then in effect and her Target Bonus for the year of termination. In addition, Ms. Cafaro would become vested in all restricted stock awards, stock options and other performance-related compensation, assuming maximum individual and Company performance, her interests under any retirement, savings, deferred compensation, profit sharing or similar arrangement would be automatically fully vested, and she would be entitled to the continuation of insurance benefits for two years following termination. The Company would also be obligated to provide Ms. Cafaro with office space and a secretary for one year following termination, with an aggregate cost not to exceed $50,000. If the Company terminates Ms. Cafaro's employment for Cause, no additional payments are made under the New Employment Agreement. For purposes of the New Employment Agreement, "Target Bonus" means the greater of (x) the highest actual bonus paid to Ms. Cafaro pursuant to the Company's annual incentive plan with respect to any of the three preceding calendar years and (y) the full amount of Ms. Cafaro's annual bonus, assuming maximum individual and Company performance, in respect of services for the year of termination.
Unlike the March 1999 Employment Agreement, no separate payments will be due to Ms. Cafaro upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as defined in the New Employment Agreement) without a termination of her employment with the Company. The definition of Good Reason has been modified in the New Employment Agreement, however, so that Ms. Cafaro would have the ability to terminate her employment for Good Reason at any time during the 30-day period immediately following the one-year anniversary of a Change of Control. In addition, the New Employment Agreement specifies that if Ms. Cafaro is no longer the chief executive officer of a publicly traded company following a transaction in which the Company is a participant, that shall constitute Good Reason.
The New Employment Agreement further provides that the Company will be obligated to provide Ms. Cafaro with $2 million of life insurance and executive disability coverage with annual benefits of at least 100% of her base salary, to reimburse her for reasonable travel expenses incurred by her for travel to and from the Chicago area once each week and to gross up Ms. Cafaro with respect to any taxes imposed upon her by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code or any similar state or local tax as a result of payments made under the New Employment Agreement or other plans, arrangements, agreements, policies or programs maintained by the Company. Consistent with the March 1999 Employment Agreement, the New Employment Agreement also continues to provide that Ms. Cafaro will be entitled to forgiveness of an existing tax loan by the Company to her in the event of a Change of Control, Ms. Cafaro's death or disability or termination of her employment by the Company without Cause or by her for Good Reason.
During the term of the New Employment Agreement and for one year thereafter, Ms. Cafaro is subject to certain noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions. In addition, the New Employment Agreement imposes certain confidentiality and nondisparagement restrictions, as well as a post-termination assistance obligation, on Ms. Cafaro.
In connection with the New Employment Agreement, Ms. Cafaro has been awarded 179,813 shares of restricted stock, vesting ratably over a five-year period. All restrictions on the shares would lapse upon (i) a Change of Control, (ii) Ms. Cafaro's death or disability or (iii) a termination of Ms. Cafaro's employment by the Company without Cause or by Ms. Cafaro for Good Reason.
The foregoing description is qualified by reference in its entirety to the New Employment Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 2, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had entered into the New Employment Agreement with Ms. Cafaro. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("") is made as of the 28th day of December, 2006 (the ""), by and between Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Debra A. Cafaro (the "").
Agreement
Effective Date
Company
Executive
WHEREAS, Executive has, pursuant to the terms of an Employment Agreement dated as of March 5, 1999 (the "t"), served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since March 5, 1999 and as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") since January 28, 2003;
Existing Employment Agreemen
Board
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire to amend and restate in its entirety, subject to Section 21 herein, the Existing Employment Agreement and enter into this Agreement pursuant to which the Executive will continue to serve as the Company's President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board; and
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the respective covenants and agreements contained herein, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Company and Executive agree as follows:
The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive and Executive hereby agrees to be employed by the Company upon the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth. The term of employment of Executive by the Company pursuant to this Agreement (the "") shall commence on the date hereof and shall continue until terminated pursuant to Section 6 or amended pursuant to Section 21.
1. EMPLOYMENT.
Employment Term
The Company hereby employs Executive and Executive hereby accepts employment with the Company as President and Chief Executive Officer. During the Employment Term, Executive shall have the title, status and duties of President and Chief Executive Officer, shall report directly to the Board, and shall have duties consistent with and authority comparable to Chief Executive Officers of other publicly-traded REITs, including the designation of senior management. During the Employment Term, the Company shall cause Executive to be nominated for election as a member of the Board.
2. DUTIES.
Executive, subject to the direction and control of the Board, shall have the power and authority commensurate with her status as President and Chief Executive Officer and necessary to perform her full-time duties hereunder. During the term, Executive shall devote her working time, attention, labor, skill and energies to the business of the Company, and shall not, without the consent of the Company, be actively engaged in any other business activity, whether or not such business activity is pursued for gain, profit or other pecuniary advantage, that competes, conflicts or interferes with the performance of her duties hereunder in any material way.
3. EXTENT OF SERVICES.
As compensation for services hereunder rendered, Executive shall receive during the Employment Term:
4. COMPENSATION.
(a) . A base salary at a rate of not less than six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) per year subject to increases from time to time as determined by the Executive Compensation Committee acting in its sole discretion. Executive's base salary shall be payable in equal installments in accordance with the Company's normal payroll procedures (but no less frequently than semimonthly). The term "" for purposes of this Agreement shall refer to Executive's base salary annualized, as most recently increased.
BASE SALARY
Base Salary
(b) . In addition to Base Salary, Executive shall be eligible to receive such other bonuses and incentive compensation as the Board may approve from time to time. Provided that Executive's employment is not terminated prior to December 31, 2007, she shall be entitled to the following annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation in respect of her services during 2007:
2007 ANNUAL BONUS AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION
(i) . Executive's annual bonus for the 2007 fiscal year under the Company's annual incentive plan shall be $2,100,000, which shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner as annual bonuses in respect of fiscal 2007 are paid to the Company's other senior executives. Executive shall not be entitled to any other annual bonus in respect of fiscal 2007; provided, however, that if Executive's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason and Executive has executed and delivered a general release of claims in form substantially similar to the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Release"), the Company shall pay Executive on Executive's Date of Termination a lump sum payment in the amount of $2,100,000;
Annual Bonus Paid in 2008 in Respect of Services Rendered During 2007
(ii) Executive shall in 2008 be awarded a package of long-term incentives in respect of services during 2007 that shall have a total value at grant of $5,400,000. This package of incentives shall be divided among restricted stock, stock options and/or awards under the Company's Performance Cash Plan in the manner determined by the Executive Compensation Committee in the exercise of its sole discretion; provided, however, that if Executive's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or by the Executive for Good Reason and Executive has executed and delivered the Release, the Company shall pay Executive on Executive's Date of Termination a lump sum payment in cash in the amount of $5,400,000. Executive shall not be entitled to any other long-term incentive compensation in respect of fiscal 2007.
Long-Term Incentives Awarded in 2008 in Respect of Services Rendered During 2007.
5. BENEFITS.
(a) Executive shall be entitled to participate in any and all pension benefit, welfare benefit (including, without limitation, medical, dental, disability and group life insurance coverages) and fringe benefit plans from time to time in effect for executives of the Company and its affiliates. Without limitation of the foregoing, the Company shall provide Executive,
 
without any cost to Executive, with two million dollars of life insurance coverage and executive disability coverage with an "own occupation" definition of disability providing annual benefits of at least 100% of Executive's Base Salary. To the extent any of the benefits or payments within this Section 5(a) are treated as taxable to the Executive, the Company shall pay Executive an additional amount such that the net amount or benefit retained by Executive after deduction or payment of all federal, state, local and other taxes with respect to amounts or benefits under this Section 5(a) shall be equal to the full amount of the payments or benefits required by this Section 5(a).
(b) Executive shall be granted on the Effective Date 179,813 shares of restricted common stock of the Company under the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended. The agreement evidencing such award shall be substantially in the form attached to this Agreement as Exhibit A.
(c) Executive shall be entitled to participate in such bonus, stock option and other incentive compensation plans of the Company and its affiliates in effect from time to time for executives of the Company.
(d) Executive shall be entitled to four weeks of paid vacation each year, earned on the Effective Date and the first day of each subsequent calendar year. The Executive shall schedule the timing of such vacations in a reasonable manner. The Executive may also be entitled to such other leave, with or without compensation, as shall be mutually agreed by the Company and Executive.
(e) Executive may incur reasonable business related expenses including for promoting the business and expenses for entertainment, travel, cellular telephone and similar items related thereto. The Company shall reimburse Executive for all such reasonable expenses subject to the Company's reimbursement procedures regarding the reporting and documentation of such expenses.
(f) The Company shall pay or promptly reimburse Executive for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by Executive to travel to and from the Chicago area once each week. To the extent any of the payments within this Section 5(f) are treated as taxable to the Executive, the Company shall pay Executive an additional amount such that the net amount retained by Executive after deduction or payment of all federal, state, local and other taxes with respect to amounts under this Section 5(f) shall be equal to the full amount of the payments required by this Section 5(f).
(g) The Company intends that all provisions of this Agreement will be fully operative, effective, binding and enforceable as of the Effective Date and agrees to adopt such employee benefit plans, amendments to employee benefit plans or other arrangements, as applicable, take such other acts and pay such other amounts as are necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Agreement effective on the Effective Date. Without limitation of the foregoing, to the extent Executive experiences any economic or tax or other detriment or diminution in benefit on account of or related to any of such provisions not being fully operative, effective, binding and enforceable on the Effective Date fully in accordance with the terms and provisions of such provisions, or any delay or failure to comply with such provisions, the
 
Company shall immediately take such actions, and pay such amounts, as Executive and the Executive Compensation Committee reasonably determine are appropriate so that the Executive achieves at least the same economic, tax and other benefits the Executive would have had if such provisions were fully operative, effective, binding and enforceable in accordance with their terms as of the Effective Date.
6. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
(a) . Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon Executive's death during the Employment Term. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability of Executive has occurred during the Employment Term (pursuant to the definition of Disability set forth below), it may give to Executive written notice of its intention to terminate Executive's employment. In such event, Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by Executive (the ""), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, Executive shall not have returned to performance of Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the total disability as determined by the Board in accordance with standards and procedures similar to those under the Company's long-term disability plan, or, if none, a physical or mental infirmity which impairs the Executive's ability to perform substantially her duties for a period of 180 consecutive days.
DEATH OR DISABILITY
Disability Effective Date
Disability
(b) . The Company may terminate Executive's employment during the Employment Term for Cause or without Cause. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the Executive's (i) conviction of or plea of nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude; or (ii) willful and material breach by Executive of her duties and responsibilities which is directly and materially harmful to the business and reputation of the Company and which is committed in bad faith or without reasonable belief that such breaching conduct is in the best interests of the Company and its affiliates, but with respect to (ii) only if the Board adopts a resolution by a vote of at least 75% of its members so finding after giving the Executive and her attorney an opportunity to be heard by the Board. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or based upon advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company.
CAUSE
Cause
(c) . Executive's employment may be terminated by Executive for Good Reason or otherwise. "" shall exist upon the occurrence, without Executive's express written consent, of any of the following events:
GOOD REASON
Good Reason
(i) a diminution in Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities (including the assignment to Executive of any duties inconsistent with Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities), in each case, as President and Chief Executive Officer, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive, it being understood that it shall constitute a diminution in Executive's position within the meaning of this provision if Executive is, following a
 
transaction in which the Company is a participant, no longer the chief executive officer of a publicly traded company;
(ii) the Company shall (A) reduce the Base Salary or annual maximum bonus opportunity of Executive or (B) reduce (other than pursuant to a uniform reduction applicable to all similarly situated executives of the Company) Executive's benefits and perquisites;
(iii) the Company shall require Executive to relocate Executive's principal business office to any location more than 30 miles from its location on the Effective Date except that a relocation of the Executive's principal business office to the Chicago business district shall not constitute Good Reason;
(iv) the Company's failure or refusal to comply with any provision of this Agreement;
(v) the Company (1) is a debtor in any bankruptcy case in which an order for relief is entered under any chapter of the federal Bankruptcy Code; (2) is adjudicated a bankrupt under any bankruptcy, insolvency, or reorganization law; (3) has a receiver of all or a substantial portion of its assets or property appointed; or (4) makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or
(vi) the failure of the Company to obtain the assumption of this Agreement as contemplated by Section 12(c).
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, a termination by Executive for any reason during the 30-day period immediately following the one-year anniversary of a Change of Control shall be deemed to be a termination with Good Reason for all purposes of this Agreement.
(d) For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(i) An acquisition of any voting or other securities by any "Person" (having the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("1934 Act") and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d)), such that immediately after which such Person has "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act) of 20% or more of either (i) any class of then-outstanding equity securities of the Company ("Outstanding Shares") or (ii) the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors ("Voting Securities"); provided, however, that in determining whether a Change of Control has occurred, Outstanding Shares or Voting Securities which are acquired in an acquisition by (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries or, (ii) an employee benefit plan (or a trust forming a part thereof) maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall not constitute an acquisition which would cause a Change of Control;
 
(ii) The individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constituted the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute over 50% of the Board; provided, however, that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, of any new director was approved by a vote of over 50% of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of this Section 6(d), be considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; provided, further, however, that no individual shall be considered a member of the Incumbent Board if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either an actual or threatened "Election Contest" (as described in Rule 14a-11 promulgated under the 1934 Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board (a "Proxy Contest"), including by reason of any agreement intended to avoid or settle any Election Contest or Proxy Contest;
(iii) Consummation of a merger, consolidation or reorganization involving the Company, unless each of the following events occurs in connection with such merger, consolidation or reorganization:
1) the stockholders of the Company, immediately before such merger, consolidation or reorganization, have Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly immediately following such merger, consolidation or reorganization, of over 50% of the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of all voting securities of the corporation resulting from such merger or consolidation or reorganization (the "Surviving Company") in substantially the same proportion as their Beneficial Ownership of the Outstanding Shares and Voting Securities immediately before such merger, consolidation or reorganization;
2) the individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board immediately prior to the execution of the agreement providing for such merger, consolidation or reorganization constitute over 50% of the members of the board of directors of the Surviving Company; and
3) no Person (other than the Company, any of its subsidiaries, any employee benefit plan (or any trust forming a part thereof) maintained by the Company, the Surviving Company or any Person who, immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or reorganization had Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of the then Outstanding Shares or Voting Securities) has Beneficial Ownership of 20% or more of the then Outstand Shares of the Surviving Company or combined voting power of the Surviving Company's then outstanding voting securities;
(iv) Approval by the Company's stockholders of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or the occurrence of the same.
(v) Approval by the Company's stockholder of an agreement for the assignment, sale, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to any Person (other than a transfer to a subsidiary of the Company), or the occurrence of the same.
 
(vi) The occurrence of any transaction which is reasonably likely to result in the Company not continuing to be a real estate investment trust as defined under section 856 of the Code (for example, such as because the Company will not have sufficient qualifying income or assets).
(vii) Any other event that the Board shall determine constitutes an effective Change of Control or Company.
(viii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the Outstanding Shares or Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Outstanding Shares or Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Outstanding Shares or Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person; provided that if a Change of Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Shares or Voting Securities by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Outstanding Shares or Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then Outstanding Shares or Voting Securities Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change of Control shall occur.
(e) . Any termination by the Company for Cause, or by Executive for Good Reason, shall be communicated by a Notice of Termination given in accordance with this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of Executive's employment under the provision so indicated, and (iii) specifies the intended termination date (which date, in the case of a termination for Good Reason, shall be not more than thirty days after the giving of such notice). The failure by Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of Executive or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude Executive or the Company, respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.
NOTICE OF TERMINATION
Notice of Termination
(f) . "" means (i) if Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, or by Executive for Good Reason, the later of the date specified in the Notice of Termination or the date that is one day after the last day of any applicable cure period, (ii) if Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, or Executive resigns without Good Reason, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company or Executive notified Executive or the Company, respectively, of such termination and (iii) if Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
DATE OF TERMINATION
Date of Termination
 
Following any termination of Executive's employment hereunder for any reason whatsoever, the Company shall pay Executive her Base Salary through the Date of Termination, all amounts earned by Executive through the Date of Termination (including accrued vacation and bonus and expenses incurred but not yet reimbursed), and all amounts owed to Executive pursuant to the terms and conditions of the benefit plans, programs and arrangements of the Company at the time such payments are due. In addition, Executive shall be entitled to the following additional payments and benefits.
7. OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY UPON TERMINATION.
(a) . If, during the Employment Term, Executive's employment shall terminate by reason of Executive's death or Disability, the Company shall pay to Executive (or her designated beneficiary or estate, as the case may be) the prorated portion of any Target Bonus (as defined in Section 7(d)) Executive would have received for the year of termination of employment. Such amount shall be paid within 30 days of the date when such amounts would otherwise have been payable to the Executive if Executive's employment had not terminated. In addition, if during the Employment Term, Executive's employment shall terminate by reason of Executive's Disability, the Company shall provide the benefits set forth in Section 7(b)(2).
DEATH OR DISABILITY
(b) Subject to Executive's execution and delivery of the Release, if the Company shall terminate Executive's employment other than for Cause (but not for Disability) or the Executive shall terminate her employment for Good Reason:
GOOD REASON; OTHER THAN FOR CAUSE.
(1) The Company shall pay Executive on the Executive's Date of Termination an amount equal to the sum of (i) the prorated portion of the Target Bonus for Executive for the year in which the Date of Termination occurs, plus (ii) an amount equal to three (3) times the sum of the Executive's Base Salary and Target Bonus as of the Date of Termination.
(2) For a period of two (2) years following the Date of Termination, the Executive shall be treated as if she had continued to be an Executive for all purposes under the Company's Health Insurance Plan and Dental Insurance Plan; or if the Company has not yet established its own Health Insurance Plan and/or Dental Plan or the Executive is prohibited from participating in such plan, the Company shall, at its sole cost and expense, provide health and dental insurance coverage for Executive which is equivalent to the coverage provided to Executive as of the Date of Termination. Such benefits shall not have any waiting period for coverage and shall provide coverage for any pre-existing condition. Following this continuation period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive continuation coverage under Part 6 of Title I of ERISA treating the end of this period as a termination of the Executive's employment if allowed by law.
(3) For a period of two (2) years following the Date of Termination, Company shall maintain in force, at its expense, all life insurance being provided or required to be provided to the Executive by the Company as of the Date of Termination and shall thereafter enable Executive to assume such life insurance at the Executive's expense.
 
(4) For a period of two (2) years following the Executive's Date of Termination, the Company shall provide short-term and long-term disability insurance benefits to Executive equivalent to the coverage that the Executive would have had she remained employed under the disability insurance plans applicable to Executive on the Date of Termination. Should Executive become disabled during such period, Executive shall be entitled to receive such benefits, and for such duration, as the applicable plan provides.
(5) To the extent not already vested pursuant to the terms of such plan, the Executive's interests under any retirement, savings, deferred compensation, profit sharing or similar arrangement of the Company shall be automatically fully (i.e., 100%) vested, without regard to otherwise applicable percentages for the vesting of employer contributions based upon the Executive's years of service with the Company.
(6) The Company shall adopt such employee benefit plans or amendments to its employee benefit plans, if any, as are necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Agreement.
(7) Executive shall become vested in all restricted stock awards, stock options and other performance related compensation, including any performance cash plan awards or awards under a successor or replacement plan, on the basis of the maximum payout for any open performance cycles.
(8) The Company shall provide Executive with executive office space and an executive secretary (both the office space and secretary shall be of a quality comparable to that the Executive had during the Employment Term) in a city or other locale chosen by Executive for a period of one year after the termination of Executive's employment with an aggregate cost not to exceed $50,000.
(c) . In the event of the death of Executive during the period Executive is receiving payments pursuant to this Agreement, Executive's designated beneficiary shall be entitled to receive the balance of the payments; or in the event of no designated beneficiary, the remaining payments shall be made to Executive's estate.
DEATH AFTER TERMINATION
(d) . For the purposes of all provisions of this Agreement, the term "" shall mean the greater of (x) the highest actual bonus paid to Executive pursuant to the Company's annual incentive plan with respect to any of the three preceding calendar years and (y) the full amount of the annual bonus that would be payable to the Executive, assuming all performance criteria (at the maximum level) on which such bonus is based were deemed to be satisfied, in respect of services for the calendar year in which the date in question occurs.
TARGET BONUS
Target Bonus
If Executive becomes entitled to any payments or benefits whether pursuant to the terms of or by reason of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement, agreement, policy or program (including without limitation any restricted stock, stock option, stock appreciation right or similar right, or the lapse or termination of any restriction on the vesting or exercisability of any of the foregoing) with the
8.
CERTAIN ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS BY THE COMPANY.
 
Company, any successor to the Company or to all or a part of the business or assets of the Company (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, spin off, or otherwise and regardless of whether such payment is made by or on behalf of the Company or such successor) or any person whose actions result in a change of control or any person affiliated with the Company or such persons (in the aggregate, "" or singularly, ""), which Payments are reasonably determined by the Executive to be subject to the tax imposed by Section 4999 or any successor provision of the Code or any similar state or local tax, or any interest or penalties are incurred by Executive with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the ""), the Company shall pay Executive an additional amount ("") such that the net amount retained by Executive, after deduction or payment of (i) any Excise Tax on Payments, (ii) any federal, state and local income tax and Excise Tax upon the payment provided for by this Section, and (iii) any additional interest and penalties imposed because the Excise Tax is not paid when due, shall be equal to the full amount of the Payments. The Gross-Up Payment shall be paid to the Executive within ten (10) days of the Company's receipt of written notice from the Executive that the Excise Tax has been paid, is or was payable or will be payable at any time in the future.
Payments
Payment
Excise Tax
Gross-Up Payment
For purposes of determining the amount of payments pursuant to Sections 5(a), 5(f), 5(g), 8, 10 and 16 and elsewhere in this Agreement, the Executive shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation in the calendar year in which the payment is to be made and state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rates of taxation in the state and locality of the Executive's residence or the Executive's place of business, whichever is higher, on the date the payment is to be made. Without limitation on any other provision of this Agreement, all such payments involving the calculation of taxes shall be made no later than two (2) days after the receipt by the Company of written advice from a professional tax advisor selected by the Executive that taxes are payable. The expense incurred in obtaining such advice shall be paid by the Company. Without limitation on any other provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall indemnify Executive for all taxes with respect to the amounts for which payments described in the first sentence of this Section are required to be made pursuant to this Agreement and all other costs including interest and penalties with respect to the payment of such taxes. To the extent any of the payments pursuant to this Section are treated as taxable to the Executive, the Company shall pay Executive an additional amount such that the net amount retained by the Executive after deduction or payment of all federal, state, local and other taxes with respect to amounts pursuant to this Section shall be equal to the full amount of the payments required by this Section.
9. TAX PAYMENT.
Any dispute or controversy arising under, out of, or in connection with this Agreement shall, at the election and upon written demand of either party, be finally determined and settled by binding arbitration in the City of Chicago, Illinois, in accordance with the Labor Arbitration rules and procedures of the American Arbitration Association, and judgment upon the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The Company shall pay all costs of the arbitration and all reasonable attorneys' and accountants' fees of the Executive in connection therewith, including any litigation to enforce any arbitration award. To the extent any of the payments within this Section are treated as taxable to the Executive, the Company shall pay Executive an additional amount such that the net amount retained by Executive after deduction or payment of all federal, state, local and other taxes with respect to amounts under this Section shall be equal to the full amount of the payments required by this Section.
10. DISPUTES.
 
11. RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS.
(a) .
CONFIDENTIALITY
(i) The Executive acknowledges that in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company the Executive has and will become familiar with trade secrets and other confidential information concerning the Company and its subsidiaries and that the Executive's services will be of special, unique and extraordinary value to the Company and its subsidiaries.
(ii) Executive acknowledges that it is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to maintain as secret and confidential all valuable and unique information and techniques acquired, developed or used by the Company and its subsidiaries relating to their business, operations, actual or potential products, strategies, potential liabilities, employees, tenants, proposed or perspective tenants and customers, business partners and customers, (including without limitation information protected by the Company's attorney/client, work product, or tax advisor/audit privileges; tax matters and information; financial analysis models; the Company's strategic plans; negotiations with third parties; methods, policies, processes, formulas, techniques, know-how and other knowledge; trade practices, trade secrets, or financial matters; lists of customers or customers' purchases; lists of suppliers, manufacturers, representatives, or other distributors; lists of and information about tenants; requirements for systems, programs, machines, or their equipment; information regarding the Company's bank accounts, credit agreement or financial projections information; information regarding the Company's directors or officers or their personal affairs) which gives the Company and its subsidiaries a competitive advantage in the businesses in which the Company and its subsidiaries are engaged (""). "Confidential Information" shall not include information that (A) is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by Executive in violation of this Agreement, (B) was available to Executive on a non-confidential basis prior to the date hereof, or (C) is compelled to be disclosed by a court or governmental agency, provided that prior written notice is given to the Company and Executive cooperates with the Company in any efforts by the Company to limit the scope of such obligation and/or to obtain confidential treatment of any material disclosed pursuant to such obligation. Executive recognizes that all such Confidential Information is the sole and exclusive property of the Company and its subsidiaries, and that disclosure of Confidential Information would cause damage to the Company and its subsidiaries. Executive shall not disclose, directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information obtained during her employment with the Company, and will take all necessary precautions to prevent disclosure, to any unauthorized individual or entity inside or outside the Company, and will not use the Confidential Information or permit its use for the benefit of Executive or other third party other than the Company. These obligations shall continue for so long as the Confidential Information remains Confidential Information.
Confidential Information
 
(b) . Executive shall not during the Employment Term, and during the one-year period after the termination of Executive's employment with the Company for any reason (the ""), either directly or indirectly (through another business or person) engage in or facilitate any of the following activities anywhere in the United States:
NONCOMPETITION, NONSOLICITATION, NONINTERFERENCE
Restricted Period
(i) soliciting to hire, recruit or employ any person who is, or during the six-month period preceding such activity was, employed by the Company or any subsidiary, or causing or attempting to cause any third party to do any of the foregoing;
(ii) performing services as an employee, director, officer, consultant, independent contractor or advisor; or investing in, whether in the form of equity or debt, owning any interest or otherwise having an ownership or other interest or a connection to any Prohibited Entity or performing services as an employee, director, officer, consultant, independent contractor or advisor to any other company, entity or person if those services relate directly to a business or businesses that directly and materially compete with the Company anywhere in the United States. Nothing in this Section (ii) shall, however, restrict Executive from (A) making an investment in and owning up to one-percent (1%) of the common stock of any company whose stock is listed on a national exchange, provided that such investment does not give Executive the right or ability to control or influence the policy decisions of any direct competitor, or (B) except as provided in Section 11(c) below, performing services as an employee, director, officer, consultant, independent contractor or advisor in an operating company which provides healthcare services or goods other than leasing or financing of real property (for example, a hospital or a nursing facility). For purposes of this Agreement, a Prohibited Entity is any company, entity or person that derives more than 20% of its consolidated gross revenues from a business or businesses that directly and materially compete with the Company.
(c) Executive acknowledges that her position at the Company provides her with access to highly sensitive information concerning the Company's principal lessee and its affiliates and leases to such lessee and its affiliates which are critical to the Company's ability to effectively function and to the properties to be purchased by the Company, and that if Executive were to provide services for such principal lessee and/or its affiliates such services would cause irreparable damages to the Company. Executive shall not during the Employment Term and the Restricted Period, either directly or indirectly (through another business or person) engage in or facilitate any of the following activities anywhere in the United States or in any location outside the United States where the Company conducts or plans to conduct business: performing services as an employee, director, officer, consultant, independent contractor or advisor; or investing in, whether in the form of equity or debt, owning any interest or otherwise having an ownership or other interest or a connection to Kindred Healthcare, Inc. or any of its parent, sister, subsidiary or affiliated entities in any manner, including without limitation as an owner, principal, partner, officer, director, stockholder, employee, consultant, contractor, agent, broker, representative or otherwise (unless Executive becomes a stockholder in Kindred Healthcare as part of a restructuring of Kindred Healthcare where the Company's stockholders receive Kindred Healthcare stock), provided, however that subsection (c) shall not preclude Executive from owning any equity or debt interest in Kindred Healthcare to which she became entitled by reason of her previous employment by Kindred Healthcare.
OTHER PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
 
(d) .
NON-DISPARAGEMENT
(i) Executive agrees not to make, or cause to be made, any statement, observation or opinion, or communicate any information (whether oral or written, directly or indirectly) that (A) accuses or implies that the Company and/or any of its affiliates, together with their respective present or former officers, directors, partners, stockholders, employees and agents, and each of their predecessors, successors and assigns, engaged in any wrongful, unlawful, unethical or improper conduct, whether relating to Executive's employment (or termination thereof), the business or operations of the Company, or otherwise; or (B) disparages, impugns or in any way reflects adversely upon the business, good will, products, business opportunities, competency, character, behavior or reputation of the Company and/or any of its affiliates, together with their respective present or former officers, directors, partners, stockholders, employees and agents, and each of their predecessors, successors and assigns.
(ii) The Company agrees not to make, or cause to be made, any statement, observation or opinion, or communicate any information (whether oral or written, directly or indirectly) that (A) accuses or implies that Executive engaged in any wrongful, unlawful, unethical or improper conduct, whether relating to Executive's employment (or termination thereof), the business or operations of the Company, or otherwise; or (B) disparages, impugns or in any way reflects adversely upon the business, business opportunities, competency, character, behavior or reputation of Executive.
(iii) Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude Executive or the Company from providing truthful testimony or information pursuant to subpoena, court or other similar legal process.
(e) . Executive shall provide the terms and conditions of this Section 11 to any prospective new employer or new employer and shall permit the Company to contact any such company, entity or individual to confirm Executive's compliance with this Section 11 and shall provide the Company with such information as it requests to allow such inquiry.
NEW EMPLOYER
(f)
REASONABLENESS OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS.
(i) Executive acknowledges that the covenants contained in this Section 11 are reasonable in the scope of the activities restricted, the geographic area covered by the restrictions, and the duration of the restrictions, and that such covenants are reasonably necessary to protect the Company's legitimate interests in its Confidential Information, its reputation, and in its relationships with its employees, customers, and suppliers.
(ii) The Company has, and the Executive has had an opportunity to, consult with their respective legal counsel and to be advised concerning the reasonableness and propriety of such covenants. Executive acknowledges that her observance of the covenants contained herein will not deprive Executive of the ability to earn a livelihood or to support her dependents.
 
(g) . In recognition of the confidential nature of the Confidential Information, and in recognition of the necessity of the limited restrictions imposed by Section 11, Executive and the Company agree that it would be impossible to measure solely in money the damages which the Company would suffer if Executive were to breach any of her obligations hereunder. Executive acknowledges that any breach of any provision of this Agreement would irreparably injure the Company. Accordingly, Executive agrees that if she breaches any of the provisions of Section 11, the Company shall be entitled, in addition to any other remedies to which the Company may be entitled under this Agreement or otherwise, to an injunction to be issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, to restrain any breach, or threatened breach, of any provision of Section 11, and Executive hereby waives any right to assert any claim or defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law for any such breach.
RIGHT TO INJUNCTION
(h) . During the one-year period following a termination of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive shall from time to time provide the Company with such reasonable assistance and cooperation as the Company may reasonably from time to time request in connection with any financial and business issues, investigation, claim, dispute, judicial, legislative, administrative or arbitral proceeding, or litigation arising out of matters within the knowledge of Executive and related to her position as an employee of the Company at the times and on the terms agreed to in good faith by Executive and the Company.
ASSISTANCE
12. SUCCESSORS.
(a) This Agreement is personal to Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive's legal representatives.
(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. This Agreement shall not be terminated by the voluntary or involuntary dissolution of the Company or by any merger or consolidation where the Company is not the surviving corporation, or upon any transfer of all or substantially all of the Company's stock or assets. In the event of such merger, consolidation or transfer, the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the surviving corporation or corporation to which such stock or assets of the Company shall be transferred.
(c) The Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, or any business of the Company for which Executive's services are principally performed, to assume expressly, absolutely and unconditionally and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "" shall mean the Company as herein before defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
Company
 
. Executive hereby agrees that in consideration for and subject to the receipt of the payments to be received under this Agreement, Executive waives any and all rights to any payments or benefits under any other plans, programs, contracts or arrangements of the Company or their respective affiliates that provide for severance payments or benefits upon a termination of employment, except as provided in this Agreement.
13. OTHER SEVERANCE BENEFITS
. The Company shall not issue or permit to be issued any press release or other public announcement regarding the Executive or the terms of Executive's employment (including related to any termination of Executive's employment for any reason) without Executive's prior approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
14. PRESS RELEASE
. Beginning on the Effective Date and continuing thereafter, including after the termination of Executive's employment hereunder, the Company shall indemnify, defend and hold the Executive harmless from and against any and all Expenses, liabilities, damages, costs, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement, incurred by Executive in connection with any Proceeding involving her by reason of her being or having been an officer, director, employee or agent of the Company (or any affiliate of the Company) to the fullest extent permitted by law, whether or not Executive is, or is threatened to be made, a party to any threatened, pending, or completed Proceeding, and whether or not Executive is successful in such Proceeding. In addition, upon receipt from Executive of (i) a written request for an advancement of Expenses which Executive reasonably believes will be subject to indemnification hereunder and (ii) a written undertaking by Executive to repay any such amounts if it shall ultimately be determined that she is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement or otherwise, the Company shall advance such Expenses to Executive or pay such Expenses for Executive, all in advance of the final disposition of any such matter. The provisions of the preceding two sentences shall survive the termination of Executive's employment hereunder for any reason whatsoever and the termination of this Agreement. The rights of indemnification and to receive advancement of Expenses as provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Executive may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation, the By-Laws of the Company, any other agreement, a vote of stockholders or a resolution of the Board, or otherwise. For purposes hereof, "" shall include all reasonable fees and expenses including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and disbursements and expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, or being or preparing to be a witness in a Proceeding; and "" shall include (without limitation) any and all proceedings, including, without limitation, actions, suits, arbitrations, alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, investigations, administrative hearings and other proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, and whether or not by or in the right of the Company. Beginning on the Effective Date and continuing thereafter, including after the termination of Executive's employment hereunder, Executive shall have coverage under a director's and officer's liability insurance policy in amounts no less than, and on terms no less favorable than those, as provided to officers of the Company as of the Effective Date and in amounts no less than, and on terms no less favorable than those, as provided to the other members of the Board and senior executive officers of the Company from time to time.
15. INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE
Expenses
Proceeding
 
. The Company will pay, or reimburse Executive for, at Executive's discretion, all attorneys fees, costs and expenses incurred by Executive in connection with the negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement. All reasonable costs and expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) incurred by Executive in seeking to interpret this Agreement or enforce rights pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid on behalf of or reimbursed to Executive promptly by the Company, whether or not Executive is successful in asserting such rights; provided, however, that no reimbursement shall be made of such expenses relating to any unsuccessful assertion of rights if and to the extent that Executive's assertion of such rights was in bad faith. To the extent any of the payments within this Section are treated as taxable to the Executive, the Company shall pay Executive an additional amount such that the net amount retained by Executive after deduction or payment of all federal, state, local and other taxes with respect to amounts under this subsection shall be equal to the full amount of the payments required by this Section.
16. ATTORNEY FEES
. All payments to be made to Executive hereunder will be subject to all applicable required withholding of taxes.
17. WITHHOLDING
. Executive shall have no duty to mitigate her damages by seeking other employment or taking other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under this Agreement and the payments required hereunder shall not be reduced or offset by any amounts, including compensation from other employment. Further, the Company's obligations to make any payments hereunder shall not be subject to or affected by any set off, counterclaims or defenses which the Company may have against Executive or others.
18. NO MITIGATION
. Any notice required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given and effective when delivered by personal or overnight couriers, or registered mail, in each case with confirmation of receipt, prepaid and addressed as follows:
19. NOTICES
 
Either party may change its specified address by giving notice in writing to the other in accordance with the foregoing method.
 
The waiver by either party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the other party shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by either party. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision, which other provision shall remain in full force and effect. In the event any provision of this Agreement is found to be invalid or unenforceable, it may be severed from the Agreement and the remaining provisions of the Agreement, including all make- whole provisions of this Agreement, shall continue to be binding and effective.
20. WAIVER OF BREACH AND SEVERABILITY.
This instrument contains the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements (including the Existing Employment Agreement), promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral, with respect to the subject matter hereof; provided, however, notwithstanding anything to the contrary found herein (including this Section 21), Section 6 of the Existing Employment Agreement shall not be modified in any way and the loans granted and outstanding as of the Effective Date pursuant to such Section 6 shall continue to represent the Executive's obligations to the Company. The penultimate sentence of Section 5(c) of the Existing Agreement shall also remain in full force and effect. No provisions of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such modification, waiver or discharge is agreed to in writing signed by Executive and such officer of the Company specifically designated by the Board.
21. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; AMENDMENT.
All payments pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 22. If Executive is a "Specified Employee" of the Company for purposes of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A ("Code Section 409A") at the time of a payment event set forth in this Agreement, then no severance or other payments pursuant to this Agreement shall be made to Executive by the Company until the amount of time has passed that is necessary to avoid incurring excise taxes under Code Section 409A. Should this Section 22 result in a delay of payments to Executive, on the first day any such payments may be made without incurring a penalty pursuant to Code Section 409A (the "409A Payment Date"), the Company shall begin to make such payments as provided for in this Agreement, provided that any amounts that would have been payable earlier but for the application of this Section 22, shall be paid in lump-sum on the 409A Payment Date along with accrued interest at the rate of interest published in the Wall Street Journal as the "prime rate" (or equivalent) on the date that payments to Executive should have been made under this Agreement. For purposes of this provision, the term Specified Employee shall have the meaning set forth in Section 409A(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended or any successor provision and the treasury regulations and rulings issued thereunder. If any compensation or benefits provided by this Agreement may result in the application of Code Section 409A, the Company shall, in consultation with the Executive, modify the Agreement in the least restrictive manner necessary in order to exclude such
22. COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.
 
compensation from the definition of "deferred compensation" within the meaning of such Code Section 409A or in order to comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A of the Code and without any diminution in the value of the payments or benefits to the Executive.
This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
23. GOVERNING LAW.
The headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be used to interpret or construe its provisions.
24. HEADINGS.
This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
25. COUNTERPARTS.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") announced today that the independent members of its Board of Directors have agreed to amend and restate the Company's Employment Agreement dated March 5, 1999 (the "March 1999 Employment Agreement") with its Chairman, President and CEO Debra A. Cafaro to encourage the long-term retention of Ms. Cafaro and reward her for the Company's excellent performance under her leadership.
LOUISVILLE, KY (January 2, 2007)
The Company said it and Ms. Cafaro have entered into a revised Employment Agreement (the "New Employment Agreement") that provides Ms. Cafaro with certain new compensation arrangements and benefits. Ms. Cafaro has agreed to waive or eliminate certain payments and benefits contained in her March 1999 Employment Agreement. She has also agreed to add noncompetition, nonsolicitation and nondisparagement restrictions for the benefit of the Company to her contract.
"Debbie joined Ventas during very uncertain and difficult times in March of 1999. Under her leadership, the Company has consistently delivered exceptional shareholder value, grown annual Funds from Operations (FFO) at superior levels and made compelling progress on its strategic diversification plan. With 52 percent compound annual total shareholder return for the last seven years, Ventas has significantly outperformed the REIT index return of 21 percent during that period," Ventas Board member and Compensation Committee Chair Sheli Z. Rosenberg said.
"We are pleased that Debbie has agreed to a Board of Directors request to modify her employment contract so that it would better reflect the current market and governance environment for executive compensation. Our goals with these changes are to retain Debbie as Ventas's CEO and reward her for that performance, while also respecting the fiduciary obligations we have to our shareholders and recent changes in the executive compensation environment," Rosenberg added.
 
Ventas Amends CEO Employment Contract
January 2, 2007
Page 2
In connection with the New Employment Agreement, Ms. Cafaro has been awarded 179,813 restricted shares of the Company's common stock, vesting ratably over a five-year period, and she will receive for 2007 service base salary of $600,000, a cash bonus of $2.1 million and $5.4 million in long-term incentive compensation that will vest or be payable over time.
The New Employment Agreement removes the following provisions for Ms. Cafaro's benefit that were contained in her March 1999 Employment Agreement: (1) the "single trigger" Change of Control provision that would have required the Company to incur certain obligations, and make certain payments to Ms. Cafaro, upon a Change of Control without any termination of her employment with the Company; (2) the requirement for the Company to pay Ms. Cafaro three times her annual long-term incentive award if her employment with the Company is terminated; (3) the requirement for Ms. Cafaro's base salary to increase by at least five percent every year; and (4) Ms. Cafaro's right to designate a nominee for election to the Company's Board.
The New Employment Agreement continues to provide, consistent with the March 1999 Employment Agreement, that if Ms. Cafaro's employment is terminated under certain circumstances she will receive: (a) a payment equal to three times her base salary and annual bonus; (b) vesting of her then unvested restricted shares, stock options and performance compensation; (c) forgiveness of an existing tax loan by the Company to Ms. Cafaro; and (d) certain other benefits, including a so-called "gross up" of taxes, if any, incurred under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the case of a Change of Control, the New Employment Agreement adds that Ms. Cafaro shall have the right to terminate her employment with the Company in the 30-day period following the first anniversary of a Change of Control and receive such payments and benefits.
Consistent with the Company's past practices and in accordance with its existing executive compensation plan, Ms. Cafaro's 2006 compensation is expected to be determined in January 2007 by the Ventas Board of Directors.
Ventas, Inc. is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. Its diverse portfolio of properties located in 43 states includes independent and assisted living facilities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals and medical office buildings. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at .
http://www.ventasreit.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding Ventas, Inc.'s ("Ventas" or the "Company") and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
 
Ventas Amends CEO Employment Contract
January 2, 2007
Page 3
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that may affect the Company's plans or results include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's operators, tenants, borrowers and other third parties to meet and/or perform the obligations under their various contractual arrangements with the Company; (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred"), Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Brookdale") and Alterra Healthcare Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, "Alterra") to meet and/or perform their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold the Company harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities under the Company's respective contractual arrangements with Kindred, Brookdale and Alterra; (c) the ability of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities; (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (e) the nature and extent of future competition; (f) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (g) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing; (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients; (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete; (k) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of and the accounting for the Company's interest rate swap agreement; (m) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (n) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2006; (o) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases, including without limitation Kindred's willingness to renew any or all of its bundles of leased properties expiring in 2008, and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of such changes on the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred and the Company's earnings; and (q) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, and the ability of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers to accurately estimate the magnitude of such liabilities. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 


