FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20070119162408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 14, 2007, Ventas, Inc. (the "Company"), 2124678 Ontario Inc. (the "Securities Purchaser") and 2124680 Ontario Inc. (the "Asset Purchaser" and, together with the Securities Purchaser, the "Purchasers"), each a corporation existing under the laws of Ontario, Canada, Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust, a trust existing under the laws of Ontario, Canada ("Sunrise REIT"), Sunrise REIT Trust, a trust existing under the laws of Ontario, Canada ("Sub Trust"), and Sunrise REIT GP Inc., a corporation existing under the laws of Ontario, Canada ("GP"), in its capacity as general partner of Sunrise Canadian UPREIT, LP ("UPREIT"), entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement, the Company will cause the Securities Purchaser and the Asset Purchaser to acquire all of Sunrise REIT's assets and assume all of Sunrise REIT's liabilities (the "Transactions"). The Transactions value the equity of Sunrise REIT at approximately Cdn $1.14 billion and the total enterprise at approximately Cdn $2.14 billion. The Board of Directors of the Company and the Board of Trustees of Sunrise REIT (upon the recommendation of a special committee of the Board of Trustees of Sunrise REIT) have approved the Purchase Agreement and the Transactions.
At the effective time of the Transactions (the "Effective Time"), the Securities Purchaser will purchase all of the interests and assume all of the liabilities of Sunrise REIT Canadian Holdings Inc. ("Canco") and certain of Sunrise REIT's intercompany notes held by Sub Trust, and the Asset Purchaser will acquire all of Sunrise REIT's remaining assets and liabilities from Sunrise REIT, Sub Trust and the UPREIT. If approved by Sunrise REIT's unitholders, each unit of beneficial interest of Sunrise REIT outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will be redeemed at a redemption price of Cdn $15.00 in cash without any action on the part of any holder of any units of Sunrise REIT. The closing of the Transactions (the "Closing") is expected to occur during the second quarter of 2007 and is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including, but not limited to, the approval of Sunrise REIT's unitholders.
A copy of the Purchase Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference. The foregoing description of the Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Purchase Agreement.
On January 14, 2007, the Company also entered into a Letter Agreement (the "Letter Agreement") with Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Sunrise"). Sunrise and its affiliates manage Sunrise REIT's senior living communities pursuant to various management and other agreements and have other contractual relationships with Sunrise REIT. The Letter Agreement provides for the modification of certain terms under the existing agreements between Sunrise REIT and its affiliates, on one hand, and Sunrise and its affiliates, on the other hand (the "Existing Agreements"), to be reflected in definitive agreements between the parties, which modifications will be effective upon the Closing. Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, one of the Existing Agreements, a Strategic Alliance Agreement between Sunrise and Sunrise REIT, dated as of December 23, 2004, will be terminated effective upon the Closing and replaced with a new agreement that will provide, among other things, a right of first offer to the Company to acquire properties developed by Sunrise or its affiliates in Canada and in certain locations in the United States, generally on terms set forth in the existing Strategic Alliance Agreement but subject to modification of such terms to address changes in circumstances and other matters. The Letter Agreement also (1) provides the Company assurances that Sunrise will cooperate with the Company in connection with the Company's compliance with the REIT rules under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and in connection with the Company's financial reporting obligations, (2) contains restrictions on the Company's rights to transfer its interest in the acquired properties to transferees who are competitors of Sunrise or who do not meet certain requirements, (3) provides that Sunrise consents to the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement and waives certain rights under the Existing Agreements, and (4) confirms the Company's right of first offer to acquire certain properties and various factual matters.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 15, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had entered into the Purchase Agreement. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
Purchase Agreement (this "Agreement") made as of the 14th day of January, 2007
BETWEEN
, a trust established under the laws of the Province of Ontario ("").
SUNRISE SENIOR LIVING REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST
Sunrise REIT
, a trust established under the laws of the Province of Ontario (the "").
SUNRISE REIT TRUST
Sub Trust
a corporation existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario, in its capacity as general partner of , a limited partnership established under the laws of the Province of Ontario (the "").
SUNRISE REIT GP, INC.
SUNRISE CANADIAN UPREIT, LP
UPREIT
the Vendors wish to sell, and the Purchasers wish to acquire, the Purchased REIT Property, on and subject to the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement;
WHEREAS
the board of trustees of Sunrise REIT (the "Board"), based on the recommendation of the committee of independent trustees of the Board, has determined, after receiving financial and legal advice, that it would be advisable and in the best interests of Sunrise REIT and the Unitholders for the Board to support the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and to recommend that the Unitholders vote for the Unitholder Resolution at the Unitholder Meeting, all on the terms and subject to the conditions contained herein;
AND WHEREAS
that, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by each party, the parties agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSES
Section 1.1 Definitions
Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined have the meanings given to them in Schedule "A".
Section 1.2 Interpretation Not Affected by Headings, etc.
The division of this Agreement into Articles, Sections and other portions and the insertion of headings are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation hereof. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to an "Article" or "Section" followed by a number and/or letter refer to the specified Article or Section of this Agreement. The terms "this Agreement", "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and similar expressions refer to this Agreement (including the Schedules hereto) and not to any particular Article, Section or other portion hereof and include any agreement or instrument supplementary or ancillary hereto.
Section 1.3 Currency
Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all sums of money referred to in this Agreement are expressed in lawful money of Canada.
Section 1.4 Number, etc.
Unless the context otherwise requires, words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and words importing any gender shall include all genders.
 
Section 1.5 Date For Any Action
In the event that any date on which any action is required to be taken hereunder by any of the parties hereto or of any other event or occurrence contemplated hereby is not a Business Day, such action, event or occurrence shall be required to be taken or occur on the next succeeding Business Day.
Section 1.6 Entire Agreement
This Agreement, the agreements and other documents herein referred to and the Confidentiality Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties pertaining hereto and supersede all other prior agreements, understandings, negotiations and discussions, whether oral or written, between the parties hereto. Except as expressly represented and warranted herein, neither party shall be considered to have given any other express or implied representations or warranties, including without limitation as a result of oral or written statements.
Section 1.7 Schedules
The following Schedules are annexed to this Agreement and are hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement and form part hereof:
Schedule "A" - Definitions
Schedule "B" - Representations and Warranties of the Vendors
Schedule "C" - Representations and Warranties of Ventas and the Purchasers
Schedule "D" - - Regulatory Approvals
Schedule "E" - Form of Indemnity Agreement
Section 1.8 Accounting Matters
Unless otherwise stated, all accounting terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings attributable thereto under Canadian generally accepted accounting principles and all determinations of an accounting nature required to be made shall be made in a manner consistent with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied.
Section 1.9 Knowledge or Awareness
Each reference herein to: (a) the knowledge or awareness of Sunrise REIT means, unless otherwise specified, the actual knowledge or actual awareness, after reasonable inquiry, as applicable, of Douglas J. MacLatchy, President & Chief Executive Officer, D. Lee McCreary, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Lisa Brush, Chief Operating Officer and Chris Brandaleone, Vice President of Acquisitions of Sunrise REIT; and (b) the knowledge or awareness of the Purchasers means, unless otherwise specified, the actual knowledge or actual
 
awareness, after reasonable inquiry, as applicable, of Debra A. Cafaro, Richard A. Schweinhart, Raymond J. Lewis and Richard T. Riney.
Section 2.1 Agreement to Purchase and Sell and Purchase Price
 
 
 
in each case, free and clear of any Encumbrances other than the Permitted Encumbrances. The aggregate amount payable by the Purchasers for the Purchased REIT Property (the ) shall be equal to (i) the amount of $1,137,712,410, plus (ii) the amount of the Assumed Liabilities.
"Purchase Price"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.2 Location and Timing of Closing
The Closing (the ) will be held as soon as practicable and in any event no later than the fifth Business Day after the satisfaction or waiver (subject to applicable Laws) of the conditions (excluding conditions that, by their terms, are to be satisfied on the Closing Date, but subject to the satisfaction or, where permitted the waiver, of those conditions as of the Closing Date) set forth in Section 2.3, and is expected to be held on or before 10:00 a.m. (Toronto Time) on April 2, 2007 or such other time or date as is agreed to in writing by the parties (the )
"Closing"
"Closing Date"
 
provided that in all events the Closing Date shall be the first Business Day of a month. The Closing will take place at the offices of Stikeman Elliott LLP, 5300 Commerce Court West, 199 Bay Street, Toronto, Ontario, M5L 1B9, on the Closing Date unless another place is agreed to in writing by the parties.
Section 2.3 Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or Purchaser Material Adverse Change qualifier contained therein), except to the extent that any such breaches would not individually or in the aggregate reasonably be expected to result in a Purchaser Material Adverse Change, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii), as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as if made on and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent that any such representation or warranty by its terms, is expressly limited to a specific date, in which case, as of such specific date).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing conditions in Sections 2.3(1) through (3) are for the sole benefit of the applicable party and may be waived by such party in whole or in part in such party's discretion, acting reasonably.
Section 2.4 Unitholder Meeting
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.5 Waiver of Standstill
Sunrise REIT hereby waives the standstill provisions contained in the Confidentiality Agreement with respect to Ventas, and the Purchasers. In all other respects, the provisions of the Confidentiality Agreement shall continue to apply notwithstanding the execution of this Agreement by the parties or the announcement of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
Section 3.1 Representations and Warranties of the Vendors
Each of the Vendors represents and warrants, jointly and severally, to and in favour of each of Ventas and the Purchasers as set forth in Schedule "B" and Section 2.4 and acknowledges that each of Ventas, and the Purchasers is relying upon such representations and warranties in connection with the matters contemplated by this Agreement. Each of the representations and warranties set forth in Schedule "B" and Section 2.4 is qualified by and is made subject to the information and disclosures contained in the Disclosure Letter, as long as its relevance to such representation or warranty is reasonably apparent.
Section 3.2 Representations and Warranties of Ventas and the Purchasers
Each of Ventas and the Purchasers represents and warrants, jointly and severally, to and in favour of the Vendors as set forth in Schedule "C" and acknowledges that the Vendors are relying upon such representations and warranties in connection with the matters contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 3.3 Survival
For greater certainty, the representations and warranties of the Vendors, Ventas and the Purchasers contained herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and shall terminate at the Closing or the earlier termination of this Agreement in accordance with and subject to Article 5.
Section 4.1 Covenants of Sunrise REIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.2 Notice Provisions
 
 
 
 
Section 4.3 Competition Act/Investment Canada
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.4 Covenants Regarding Non-Solicitation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.5 Performance by Ventas and the Purchasers
Ventas unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees, and covenants and agrees to be jointly and severally liable with the Purchasers for, the due and punctual performance of each and every obligation of the Purchasers arising under this Agreement; provided, however, that at Closing Ventas shall be released from its obligations under this Section 4.5 in respect of the Asset Purchaser's obligations in Section 4.14(3) to assume Sunrise REIT's Liabilities under the Convertible Debentures if (i) the Asset Purchaser arranges for a letter of credit to be issued as security for the full amount of such assumed Liabilities, or (ii) Ventas causes its affiliates to guarantee or otherwise secure such assumed Liabilities, in each case on terms satisfactory to Sunrise REIT.
Section 4.6 Access to Information
 
 
 
Section 4.7 Insurance and Indemnities
 
 
 
 
Section 4.8 No Personal Liability
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, each of the parties hereto acknowledges that the obligations of Sunrise REIT under this Agreement shall not be personally binding upon any of its trustees or on its registered or beneficial holders of Units as such, and that resort shall not be had to, nor shall recourse be sought from, any of the foregoing or the private property of any of the foregoing in respect of any indebtedness, obligation or liability of the parties arising hereunder, and recourse for such indebtedness, obligations or liabilities shall be limited to, and satisfied only out of, the respective assets of Sunrise REIT. Any obligation of Sunrise REIT set out in this Agreement shall, to the extent necessary to give effect to such obligation, be deemed to constitute, subject to the provisions of the previous sentence, an obligation of its trustees in their capacity as Trustees and to the extent of the assets of Sunrise REIT only.
Section 4.9 Anti-Dilution
For greater certainty, for purposes of this Agreement, the term "Units" shall include all units or other securities into which Units may be, after the date hereof, converted into, exchanged for or otherwise changed into pursuant to any
 
liquidation, dissolution, recapitalization, merger, reorganization, amalgamation, amendment to the Declaration of Trust, extraordinary distribution, or other business combination involving Sunrise REIT prior to the Effective Time.
Section 4.10 [Intentionally omitted.]
Section 4.11 Plans
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.12 Announcement
Ventas and Sunrise REIT shall consult with each other before issuing any press release, news release or otherwise making any filings or public statements with respect to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated herein and shall not issue such press release without the prior written consent of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, in each case, subject to applicable Laws and the exercise of such fiduciary duties, as may be appropriate.
Section 4.13 Defeasance of Convertible Debentures
 
 
Section 4.14 Dissolution of Sunrise REIT, Sub Trust and UPREIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.15 Planning Act
This Agreement shall only be effective to create an interest in the Canadian Properties if the subdivision control provisions of the Planning Act (Ontario), as amended, are complied with by the applicable Vendors on or before Closing and each of the Vendors covenants to proceed diligently at its expense to obtain any necessary consent on or before Closing. Sunrise REIT has no knowledge that completion of the transactions provided for in this Agreement will require any consent under the Planning Act (Ontario) and if any consent is required each of the Vendors will make reasonable efforts to obtain such consent prior to the Closing, at its sole cost and expense.
Section 4.16 Bulk Sales Act
The Purchasers hereby agrees to notify Sunrise REIT in writing within fifteen Business Days of the date hereof if they wish Sunrise REIT and the other Vendors to comply with (i) the Bulk Sales Act (Ontario) or any other applicable provincial bulk sales legislation, or (ii) Section 6 of the Retail Sales Tax Act (Ontario) and any equivalent or corresponding provision under any other applicable provincial tax legislation, otherwise the Purchasers hereby waive compliance with the provisions of such legislation to the extent the same may pertain to the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
Section 4.17 Tax Matters
 
 
 
 
The Purchasers and the Vendors shall prepare and file their respective Tax Returns in a manner consistent with the aforesaid elections.
 
Section 5.1 Amendment
This Agreement may, at any time and from time to time prior to the Closing, be amended by mutual written agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 5.2 Termination
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5.3 Termination Payment Events
Notwithstanding any other provision relating to the payment of fees, if:
 
 
 
then Sunrise REIT shall pay, subject to any applicable withholding taxes, the Termination Payment to Ventas (or as it may direct), (i) in the case of a termination pursuant to (a) above, prior to such termination, (ii) in the case of a termination pursuant to (b) above, within five Business Days of such termination; or (ii) in the case of a termination pursuant to (c) above, upon the earlier to occur of the execution of such definitive agreement or consummation of the transaction, in each case by bank draft or wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by Ventas. If this Agreement is terminated in accordance with the foregoing provisions of Section 5.3, the Vendors may terminate the Unitholder Meeting.
Section 5.4 Liquidated Damages
In the event the Termination Payment is paid to Ventas, no other amounts will be due and payable as damages or otherwise by Sunrise REIT and each of Ventas and the Purchasers hereby accepts that the Termination Payment is the maximum aggregate amount that Sunrise REIT shall be required to pay in lieu of any damages or any other payment or remedy which Ventas and the Purchasers may be entitled to; provided, however, that this limitation shall not apply in the event of fraud or a wilful breach of this Agreement by Sunrise REIT. Each of Ventas and the Purchasers agrees that the Termination Payment constitute payment of
 
liquidated damages which are a genuine anticipated assessment or estimate of the damages which it will suffer or incur as a result of the event giving rise to such damages and resulting in the termination of this Agreement and does not and will not constitute payment of a penalty.
Section 5.5 Remedies
Subject to Section 5.4, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that an award of money damages would be inadequate for any breach of this Agreement by any party or its representatives and any such breach would cause the non-breaching party irreparable harm. Accordingly, the parties hereto agree that, in the event of any breach or threatened breach of this Agreement by one of the parties, the non-breaching party will also be entitled, without the requirement of posting a bond or other security, to such equitable relief, including injunctive relief and specific performance. Such remedies will not be the exclusive remedies for any breach of this Agreement but will be in addition to all other remedies available at law or equity to each of the parties.
Section 6.1 Notices
 
 
Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust
11 King Street West
Suite 1100
Toronto, Ontario
M5H 4C7
Attention: Douglas MacLatchy
Facsimile No.: (703) 854-0405
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Mr. J. Michael Warren, Chairman
Facsimile No.: (519) 371-5766
with a further copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
 
Stikeman Elliott LLP
5300 Commerce Court West
199 Bay Street
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5L 1B9
Attention: David Ehrlich and Donald Belovich
Facsimile No.: (416) 947-0866
 
10350 Ormsby Park Place,
Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Attention: Richard T. Riney, Esq.
Facsimile No.: (502) 357-9029
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
51 West 52
nd
Street
New York, New York 10019
USA
Attention: Robin Panovka, Esq.
    Trevor S. Norwitz, Esq.
Facsimile No.: (212) 403-2000
and:
Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt LLP
100 King Street West
1 First Canadian Place
Suite 6100
P.O. Box 50
Toronto, Ontario M5X 1B8
Attention: Clay Horner
Facsimile No.: (416) 862-6666
or at such other address of which any party may, from time to time, advise the other parties by notice in writing given in accordance with the foregoing. The date of receipt of any such notice shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or telecopying thereof.
 
Section 6.2 Assignment
Each of Ventas and the Purchasers may assign all or any part of its rights and/or obligations under this Agreement to a corporation or other entity owned, directly or indirectly, in whole by Ventas, but, if such assignment takes place, Ventas and the applicable Purchaser shall continue to be liable jointly and severally with the assignee for any obligations hereunder. This Agreement shall not be otherwise assignable by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party hereto, which consent may be unreasonably withheld in such party's discretion.
Section 6.3 Binding Effect
This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall enure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns and no third party shall have any rights hereunder except as provided in Section 4.7.
Section 6.4 Waiver and Modification
The Vendors and Ventas may waive or consent to the modification of, in whole or in part, any inaccuracy of any representation or warranty made to them hereunder or in any document to be delivered pursuant hereto and may waive or consent to the modification of any of the covenants herein contained for their respective benefit or waive or consent to the modification of any of the obligations of the other parties hereto. Any such waiver or consent to be effective, must be in writing executed by the party granting such waiver or consent. No waiver shall operate as an ongoing waiver or as a waiver of any other matter whatsoever.
Section 6.5 Further Assurances
Each party hereto shall, from time to time, and at all times hereafter, at the request of the other party hereto, but without further consideration, do all such further acts and execute and deliver all such further documents and instruments as shall be reasonably required in order to fully perform and carry out the terms and intent hereof.
Section 6.6 Expenses
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the parties agree that all out-of-pocket expenses of the parties relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, including legal fees, accounting fees, financial advisory fees, regulatory filing fees, stock exchange fees, all disbursements of advisors and printing and mailing costs, shall be paid by the party incurring such expenses, provided that if Closing occurs on Closing all Transaction Costs shall be paid to Sunrise REIT (or as it may direct) by the Purchasers (or by an affiliate of the Purchasers as they may direct). No later than 5 Business Days prior to the scheduled Closing Date, Sunrise REIT shall provide Ventas with a list of Transaction Costs and payment instructions. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent or limit Sunrise REIT from paying the reasonable fees and disbursements (plus applicable taxes, if any) of
 
TD Securities Inc. or of its accounting and legal advisors incurred by Sunrise REIT in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Section 6.7 Severability
If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable by an arbitrator or any court of competent jurisdiction, that provision will be severed from this Agreement and the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6.8 Governing Laws
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Province of Ontario and the laws of Canada applicable therein and shall be treated in all respects as an Ontario contract.
Section 6.9 Jurisdiction
The parties hereby irrevocably and unconditionally consent to and submit to the courts of the Province of Ontario for any actions, suits or proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the matters contemplated hereby (and agree not to commence any action, suit or proceeding relating thereto except in such courts) and further agree that service of any process, summons, notice or document by registered mail to the addresses of the parties set forth in this Agreement shall be effective service of process for any action, suit or proceeding brought against any party in such court. The parties hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any action, suit or proceeding arising out of this Agreement or the matters contemplated hereby in the courts of the Province of Ontario and hereby further irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action, suit or proceeding so brought has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Section 6.10 Time of Essence
Time shall be of the essence in this Agreement.
Section 6.11 Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
the parties hereto have executed this Purchase Agreement as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
" means any proposal or offer made by any Person other than the Purchasers (or any affiliate of the Purchasers or any Person acting jointly and/or in concert with the Purchasers or any affiliate of the Purchasers) with respect to the acquisition, directly or indirectly, of assets, securities or ownership interests of or in Sunrise REIT or any of its Subsidiaries representing 20% or more of the consolidated assets of Sunrise REIT and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, in a single transaction or a series of transactions, or of equity interests representing a 20% or greater economic interest in Sunrise REIT or such Subsidiaries taken as a whole, in a single transaction or a series of transactions pursuant to any merger, amalgamation, tender offer, share exchange, business combination, liquidation, dissolution, recapitalization, take-over or non-exempt issuer bid, amendment to the Declaration of Trust, redemption of units, extraordinary distribution, sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer,, purchase or issuance as consideration or similar transaction or series of transactions involving Sunrise REIT or any of such Subsidiaries or any other transaction the consummation of which would reasonably expected to impede, interfere with, prevent or materially delay the transactions contemplated hereby.
"Acquisition Proposal
"" or "" has the meaning ascribed to that term in National Instrument 45-106.
Affiliate
affiliate
means 2124680 Ontario Inc. , a corporation existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario.
"Asset Purchaser"
means all of the Liabilities of each of the Vendors directly related to the Canadian Properties that are incurred, accrued or owing to any Person as at the Closing Date as reflected in the Books and Records of the applicable Vendor as at the Closing Date (excluding the Excluded Liabilities).
"Assumed Liabilities"
means all Liabilities of each of the Vendors, incurred, accrued or owing to any Person (including Liabilities under the Contracts and the Permitted Encumbrances) (excluding the Excluded Liabilities and the Assumed Liabilities).
"Assumed Obligations"
means, with respect to any Person, any order, permit, approval, consent, waiver, clearance, licence or similar authorization of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the Person.
"Authorization"
means the beneficial interest of the UPREIT in each of the Canadian Properties.
"Beneficial Property Interest"
has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
"Board"
means all books and records of Sunrise REIT and its Subsidiaries, including financial, personnel, corporate, operations and sales books, books of account, sales and purchase records, lists of suppliers and customers, formulae, business reports, plans and projections and all other documents, surveys, plans, files, records, correspondence, and other data and information, financial or otherwise including all data and information stored on computer-related or other electronic media.
"Books and Records"
"" means any plants, buildings, structures, fixtures, erections and improvements located on, over, under or upon any of the Company Properties or included in the Purchased REIT Property and mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating and air-conditioning systems relating to any of the Company Properties, including any of the foregoing under construction.
Buildings
"" means any day on which commercial banks are generally open for business in Toronto, Ontario and New York, New York USA other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day observed as a holiday in Toronto, Ontario and New York, New York USA under applicable Laws.
Business Day
means all of the Contracts relating to or associated with the Canadian Properties, including any management agreements, nominee agreements and residence agreements.
"Canadian Property Contracts"
means each of the Owned Properties, including all Buildings thereon, described in the Disclosure Letter.
"Canadian Properties"
means Sunrise REIT Canadian Holdings Inc., a corporation incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario.
"Canco"
means the Note Indenture Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004 between Canco and Computershare Trust Company of Canada.
"Canco Note Indenture"
means all of the issued and outstanding shares in the capital of Canco.
"Canco Shares"
means the notice of Unitholder Meeting and the accompanying management information circular to be sent to Unitholders in connection with the Unitholder Meeting, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified subject to this Agreement.
"Circular"
 
" means all actions required under applicable Environmental Law to contain, clean-up, remove, treat or remediate Hazardous Materials so that they do not migrate or endanger human health or the environment.
Clean-Up"
has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2.2.
"Closing"
has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2.2.
"Closing Date"
means the (Canada), as amended.
"Competition Act"
Competition Act
has the meaning ascribed thereto in paragraph 13(i) of Schedule B.
"Company Properties"
means the Commissioner of Competition appointed pursuant to the Competition Act.
"Competition Commissioner"
"" means the confidentiality, non-disclosure, non-solicit and standstill agreement between Ventas and Sunrise REIT dated November 7, 2006.
Confidentiality Agreement
"" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 4.6(2).
Confidential Information
means contracts, licences, leases, agreements, obligations, promises, undertakings, understandings, arrangements, documents, commitments, entitlements or engagements to which a Vendor or a Subsidiary of any Vendor is a party or by which a Vendor or a Subsidiary of any Vendor is bound or under which a Vendor or a Subsidiary has, or will have, any liability or contingent liability (in each case, whether written or oral, express or implied) relating to the Purchased REIT Assets.
"Contract"
means, collectively, the 2006-1 6.4% convertible debentures due December 31, 2011 issued by Sunrise REIT on each of August 1, 2006 and September 1, 2006, and the 2006-2 7% convertible debentures due December 30, 2011 issued by Sunrise REIT on September 6, 2006.
"Convertible Debentures"
means the registered holders of the outstanding Convertible Debentures.
"Debentureholders"
"" means the first amended and restated declaration of trust of Sunrise REIT dated November 11, 2004.
Declaration of Trust
means the Director of Investments appointed pursuant to the Investment Canada Act.
"Director of Investments"
 
"" means the letter of even date herewith delivered by Sunrise REIT to the Purchasers, in a form accepted by and initialled on behalf of the Purchaser, with respect to certain matters in this Agreement.
Disclosure Letter
"" means the distribution reinvestment plan of Sunrise REIT implemented by Sunrise REIT, providing for, among other things, the purchase of additional Units with cash distributions, as amended from time to time.
Distribution Reinvestment Plan
"" means 10 o'clock (Toronto time) on the Closing Date, being the time that the Purchasers shall have been deemed to have acquired ownership of the Purchased REIT Property in accordance with this Agreement.
Effective Time
means all bonus, deferred compensation, incentive compensation, share purchase, share option, share appreciation, phantom share, change of control, savings, profit sharing, severance or termination pay, employee benefit, fringe benefit, health, dental or other medical, life, disability or other insurance (whether insured or self-insured), mortgage insurance, employee loan, employee assistance, supplementary unemployment benefit, pension, retirement, supplementary retirement, plan, program and every other benefit plan, program, agreement, arrangement or practice (whether written or unwritten), insured or self insured, registered or unregistered, in each case, under which Sunrise REIT may have any liability and that relates solely to the Relevant Sunrise REIT Employees, but excluding the Canada Pension Plan, the Quebec Pension Plan, any health or drug plan established and administered by a province and workers' compensation insurance provided by federal or provincial Law or a comparable program established and administered outside Canada.
"Employee Plan"
" means any encumbrance, lien, charge, hypothec, pledge, option, right of first offer or refusal, mortgage, deed of trust, title retention agreement, security interest of any nature, adverse claim, claim against title, exception, reservation, easement, right of pre-emption, privilege or any option, right of pre-emption, privilege or Contract to create a security interest in any of the foregoing.
Encumbrances"
" means any claim, investigation or written notice by any Person against Sunrise REIT or any of its Subsidiaries alleging potential liability (including potential liability for investigatory costs, Clean-Up costs, governmental response costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries or penalties) under any Environmental Law arising out of, based on or resulting from the presence, or Release, of any Hazardous
Environmental Claim"
 
Material on the real property owned or leased by Sunrise REIT and its Subsidiaries.
" means all applicable Laws relating to pollution or protection of the environment. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Environmental Law includes Laws relating to Releases of Hazardous Material or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, Release, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Material and all Laws with regard to record keeping, notification, disclosure and reporting requirements respecting Hazardous Material.
Environmental Law"
means:
"Excluded Assets"
 
 
 
"" means (i) any taxes payable by the Vendors (other than property taxes and (ii) all of the Sub Trust's Liabilities under the Subtrust Notes; and (iii) all of Sunrise REIT's Liabilities under the Convertible Debentures (which are assumed by the Asset Purchaser pursuant to Section 4.13).
Excluded Liabilities
has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2.4(7).
"Fairness Opinion"
"" means any: (a) multinational, federal, provincial, state, regional, municipal, local or other government, governmental or public department, central bank, court, tribunal, arbitral body, commission, board, bureau or agency, domestic or foreign; (b) any subdivision, agent, commission, board, or authority of any of the foregoing; (c) any quasi- governmental or private body exercising any regulatory, expropriation or taxing authority under or for the account of any of the foregoing; and (d) stock exchange or other self-regulatory organization.
Governmental Authority
means any substance, chemical, compound, product, solid, gas, liquid, waste, byproduct, pollutant, contaminant or material which is classified or regulated as "hazardous" or "toxic" pursuant to Environmental Law, and includes friable asbestos-containing material, polychlorinated biphenyls and petroleum products.
"Hazardous Material"
"" means including without limitation.
including
 
means the (Canada), as amended.
"Investment Canada Act"
Investment Canada Act
means, collectively (i) all of the limited partnership units of Sunrise of Aurora LP held by the Sub Trust, (ii) all of the issued and outstanding shares in the capital of Sunrise of Aurora GP Inc. held by the Sub Trust, (iii) all of the limited partnership units of Sunrise of Erin Mills LP held by the UPREIT, and (iv) all of the issued and outstanding shares in the capital of Sunrise of Erin Mills GP Inc. held by the UPREIT.
"JV Interests"
"" means all statutes, regulations, statutory rules, principles of common law or equity, orders and terms and conditions of any grant of approval, permission, authority or license of any Governmental Authority (including the Securities Regulatory Authorities), and the term "applicable" with respect to such Laws and in the context that refers to one or more Persons, means that such Laws apply to such Person or Persons or its or their business, undertaking, property or securities and emanate from a Governmental Authority (including the Securities Regulatory Authorities) having jurisdiction over the Person or Persons or its or their business, undertaking, property or securities, in each case as such Laws may be amended from time to time.
Laws
"" has the meaning ascribed thereto in paragraph 13(i) of Schedule B.
Leased Properties
"" means any and all debts, liabilities and obligations of any nature whatsoever, whether accrued or fixed, absolute or contingent, including those arising under any Law, those arising under any contract, agreement, commitment, instrument, permit license or other undertaking and those arising as a result of any act or omission.
Liabilities
"" means the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Sunrise REIT, implemented by Sunrise REIT as of December 23, 2004 and as amended and restated as of March 29, 2005 (as ratified and approved on November 22, 2006) and as further amended from time to time.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
"" means Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., Sunrise North Senior Living Ltd. and/or any of its or their affiliates who manage any Owned Properties.
Manager
"" shall mean (i) any loan agreement, letter of credit, indenture, note, bond, debenture, mortgage or any other document, agreement or instrument evidencing a capitalized lease obligation or other indebtedness to any Person, or any guaranty thereof, in excess of $1,000,000 (excluding letters of credit, performance bonds or guaranties entered into in
Material Contracts
 
the ordinary course of business), (ii) any contractual obligation (including any brokerage agreement) entered into by Sunrise REIT or any Subsidiary that, by its terms, is not terminable within one year (without termination fee or penalty) and that may result in total payments by Sunrise or any Subsidiary in excess of $1,000,000, (iii) any material agreements filed or required to be filed under applicable Securities Laws, (iv) any interest rate cap, interest rate collar, interest rate swap, currency hedging transaction and any other agreement relating to a similar transaction in excess of $500,000 to which Sunrise or any Subsidiary is a party or an obligor with respect thereto, (v) any agreement, arrangement or understanding in which the amount involved exceeds $100,000 per annum with any trustee, director or employee of Sunrise or any Subsidiary earning in excess of $75,000 per annum in base compensation and cash bonus associate or any member of the immediate family of any such trustee, director or employee, (vi) any partnership or joint venture agreement with any third parties, (vii) any confidentiality agreement, non-competition agreement or other contract or any agreement that contains covenants that restrict the Sunrise's or any Subsidiary's or any of their respective Affiliates' ability to compete in any line of business or with any Person in any geographical area, (viii) any indemnification agreements entered into by and between Sunrise REIT and any trustee or officer of the Company or any of its Subsidiary, (ix) any contract providing any Person with any option, right of first refusal or similar obligation with respect to any of Sunrise REIT's assets, (x) any agreement pursuant to which Sunrise REIT or any Subsidiary manages or provides services with respect to any real properties other than real property owned by Sunrise REIT or any Subsidiary, in each case together with all amendments, modification and supplements thereto, or (xi) any agreement to which Sunrise REIT and/or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Manager and/or any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, is a party.
"" means the responsible minister under the Investment Canada Act.
Minister
has the meaning ascribed to such term under the Securities Act.
"Misrepresentation"
means collectively, SZR Mississauga Inc., SZR Lynn Valley Limited, SZR Markham Inc., SZR Windsor Inc., SZR Richmond Hill Inc., SZR Beacon Hill Inc., SZR Oakville Inc, Sunrise of Vancouver Limited and SZR Burlington Inc.
"Nominees"
means all of the issued and outstanding shares in the capital of each of the Nominees held by the UPREIT.
"Nominee Shares"
 
means (i) the Fixed Price Acquisition Agreement dated October 25, 2005, among Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., Sunrise North Senior Living Ltd. and the UPREIT, and (ii) the Mezzanine Loan Agreement dated October 25, 2005, the UPREIT, Sunrise of North York, LP, and Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. relating to the development property located in North York, Ontario, in each case as amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to time.
"North York Contracts"
means the Canco Note Indenture and the SZR Note Indenture.
"Note Indentures"
means (i) all of the issued and outstanding 11.75% unsecured, subordinated notes of Canco issued to the Sub Trust pursuant to the terms of the Canco Note Indenture, and (ii) all of the issued and outstanding unsecured, subordinated notes of SZR US Finance, Inc. issued to the Sub Trust pursuant to the terms of the SZR Note Indenture.
"Notes"
"" means options to purchase Units granted under the Unit Option Plan.
Options
means the holders of the outstanding Options.
"Optionholders"
" means May 31, 2007.
"Outside Date
"" has the meaning ascribed thereto in paragraph 13(i) of Schedule B.
Owned Properties
shall have the meaning set forth in the Purchaser Disclosure Letter.
"Permitted Encumbrances"
"" includes any individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, venture capital fund, limited liability company, unlimited liability company, association, trust, trustee, executor, administrator, legal personal representative, estate, group, body corporate, trust, unincorporated association or organization, Governmental Authority, syndicate or other entity, whether or not having legal status.
Person
means all of the right, title and interest in, to and under or relating to, the assets, property, rights and undertaking, owned or used or held by each of the Vendors of whatsoever nature in kind and wherever situated, including:
"Purchased Assets"
 
 
 
 
other than (i) the Excluded Assets, and (ii) the Purchased Securities.
means collectively, the Purchased Securities and the Purchased Assets.
"Purchased REIT Property"
means collectively, the Canco Shares and the Notes.
"Purchased Securities"
has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 2.1.
"Purchase Price"
" means, with respect to the Purchasers, any change, effect, event, occurrence or set of circumstances that, when taken together with all other adverse changes, effects, events, occurrences or set of circumstances that have occurred, is or is reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Purchasers to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and the other transactions contemplated hereby.
Purchaser Material Adverse Change"
means, collectively, the Securities Purchaser and the Asset Purchaser.
"Purchasers"
"" means those sanctions, rulings, consents, clearances, orders, exemptions, permits and other approvals (including the lapse, without objection, of a prescribed time under a statute or regulation that states that a transaction may be implemented if a prescribed time lapses following the giving of notice without an objection being made) of Governmental Authorities, as set out in Schedule "D" hereto.
Regulatory Approvals
means any release, spill, emission, discharge, leaking, pumping, injection, deposit, disposal, dispersal, leaching or migration into the environment (including ambient air, surface water, groundwater and surface or subsurface strata), or into or out of any property, including the movement of Hazardous Material through or in the air, soil, surface water, groundwater or property.
"Release"
"" means those employees listed in the Disclosure Letter.
Relevant Sunrise REIT Employees
"" has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 4.6(1).
Representatives
 
"" means the restricted unit plan of Sunrise REIT, implemented by Sunrise REIT as of July 12, 2006, providing for the grant of Restricted Units, as amended from time to time.
Restricted Unit Plan
"" means the right to receive Units granted under the Restricted Unit Plan.
Restricted Units
"" means the (Ontario) and the rules and regulations made thereunder, as now in effect and as they may be amended from time to time prior to Closing.
Securities Act
Securities Act
" mean the Securities Act and all other applicable Canadian securities Laws.
Securities Laws"
means collectively, the provincial and territorial securities regulatory authority in the provinces and territories of Canada in which Sunrise REIT is a reporting issuer (or the equivalent), and the TSX.
"Securities Regulatory Authorities"
means 2124678 Ontario Inc., a corporation existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario.
"Securities Purchaser"
"" means the notes issued to Sunrise REIT pursuant to the trust indenture dated as of December 23, 2004 between the Sub Trust and Computershare Trust Company of Canada.
Sub Trust Notes
means (i) the Master Management Agreement dated as of the 23
"Sunrise Contracts"
rd
day of December 2004 among Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc., Sunrise North Senior Living Ltd, the Sub Trust, the UPREIT, Sunrise of Aurora, LP, Sunrise US Holdings Inc, and Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., (ii) the Strategic Alliance Agreement dated as of the 23
rd
day of December 2004 among Sunrise REIT and Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., in each case as amended, modified, supplemented or restated from time to time, and (iii) any agreement to which Sunrise REIT and/or any of its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Manager and/or any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, is a party, in each case together with all amendments and modifications thereto, other than ordinary course agreements (a) which do not materially adversely affect (x) the use or occupation of the properties, (y) the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or (z) the ongoing management relationship with the Manager or (b) which require the payment to the Manager or its Affiliates of amounts in excess of $1,000,000 in the aggregate.
" means, with respect to Sunrise REIT, any change, effect, event, development, occurrence or set of circumstances, individually or in the aggregate, (i) that is materially adverse or is reasonably
Sunrise Material Adverse Change"
 
likely to be materially adverse to the business, affairs, results of operations or condition (financial or otherwise) or assets of Sunrise REIT and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (ii) that will, or would reasonably be expected to, prevent or materially impair the ability of the parties to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby before the Outside Date; (iii) that would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially impair the ability of Sunrise REIT from qualifying as a mutual fund trust for purposes of the Tax Act or as a unit trust under paragraph 108(2)(a) of the Tax Act; or (iv) that would reasonably be expected to cause Sunrise REIT or its Subsidiaries to become subject to tax under Part X11.2 of the Tax Act, in each case other than any change, effect, event, development, occurrence or set of circumstances resulting from (1) the announcement of the execution of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or the performance of any obligation hereunder, (2) the U.S. or Canadian economies or securities or currency markets in general, (3) the real estate industry, the long term care industry or the retirement home industry in general in the U.S. or Canada, (4) any Laws related to health care or the care of seniors; (5) the commencement, occurrence or continuation of any war, armed hostilities or acts of terrorism, (6) changes in applicable Laws or regulations or in Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (other than tax laws or regulations or the interpretation thereof), (7) any natural disaster, (8) any decrease in the market price or any decline in the trading volume of Units on the TSX, or (9) any other changes to the taxation of publicly traded trusts, including real estate income trusts, announced or implemented by a Governmental Authority, in the case of each of clauses (2) through (9), which do not affect Sunrise REIT or its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the senior living, long term care or retirement home industry in the relevant geographic areas.
has the meaning ascribed to that term in the National Instrument 45-106.
"Subsidiaries
"
means Sunrise REIT Trust, a trust established under the laws of the Province of Ontario.
"Sub Trust"
means the trust units of the Sub Trust.
"Sub Trust Units"
means any unsolicited written Acquisition Proposal made by a third party that in the good faith determination of the Trustees, after consultation with its financial advisors and with outside counsel: (a) is reasonably capable of being completed without undue delay having regard to financial, legal, regulatory and other matters; (b) in respect of which adequate arrangements have been made to ensure that the required funds will be available to effect payment in full of the consideration; and (c)
"Superior Proposal"
bona fide
 
would, if consummated in accordance with its terms, result in a transaction more favourable to Unitholders from a financial point of view (including financing terms, any termination fee or expenses reimbursement payable under this Agreement, any conditions to the consummation thereof) than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; provided, however, that for purposes of this definition the references in the definition of Acquisition Proposal to "20%" shall be deemed to be references to "100%".
means the note indenture dated as of June 21, 2005 between SZR US Finance, Inc. and Canco.
"SZR Note Indenture"
means all taxes, duties, fees, premiums, assessments, levies and other fees of any kind whatsoever levied by any Governmental Authority or to be paid under any tax laws (including income tax, employment tax, property tax, corporate tax, land transfer tax, sales tax, goods and services tax, harmonized sales, value-added, excise tax, withholding tax, tax on capital, customs duties and transfer fees).
"Taxes"
"" means the (Canada), as amended.
Tax Act
Income Tax Act
means all returns, reports, declarations, elections, notices, filings, information returns and statements filed with any Governmental Authority or required to be filed in respect of Taxes.
"Tax Returns"
means an amount equal to the lesser of (i) the Base Amount (as defined below) and (ii) the maximum amount, if any, that can be paid to Ventas without causing it to fail to meet the requirements of Sections 856(c)(2) and (3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") for such year determined as if (a) the payment of such amount did not constitute income described in Sections 856(c)(2)(A)-(H) and 856(c)(3)(A)-(I) of the Code ("Qualifying Income"), and (b) Ventas has $1,000,000 of income from unknown sources during such year which was not Qualifying Income (in addition to any known or anticipated income of Ventas which was not Qualifying Income), in each case as determined by independent accountants to Ventas. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event Ventas receives a reasoned opinion from outside counsel or a ruling from the United States Internal Revenue Service ("Tax Guidance") providing that Ventas' receipt of the Base Amount would either constitute Qualifying Income or would be excluded from gross income within the meaning of Sections 856(c)(2) and (3) of the Code (the "REIT Requirements"), the Termination Payment shall be an amount equal to the Base Amount and Sunrise REIT shall, upon receiving notice that Ventas has received the Tax Guidance, pay to Ventas the unpaid Base Amount within five Business Days. In the event that Ventas is not able to receive the full Base Amount due to the
"Termination Payment"
 
above limitations, Sunrise REIT shall place the unpaid amount in escrow by wire transfer within three days of termination and shall not release any portion thereof to Ventas unless and until Ventas receives either one or a combination of the following once or more often: (i) a letter from Ventas' independent accountants indicating the maximum amount that can be paid at that time to Ventas without causing Ventas to fail to meet the REIT Requirements (calculated as described above) or (ii) the Tax Guidance, in either of which events Sunrise REIT shall pay to Ventas the lesser of the unpaid Base Amount or the maximum amount stated in the letter referred to in (i) above within five Business Days after Sunrise REIT has been notified thereof. For the purposes hereof, Base Amount means $39,800,000.
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 of Schedule "B".
"Third Party Consents"
means all costs, expenses and fees of the Vendors or their Subsidiaries incurred in connection with, or incidental to, the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) out-of-pocket expenses of the parties relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, including legal fees, accounting fees, financial advisory fees, regulatory filing fees, stock exchange fees, all disbursements of advisors and printing and mailing costs; (ii) all fees, costs or other expenses, of any nature or kind, incurred as a result of the compliance with Section 4.13 and completion of the defeasance of the Convertible Debentures; (iii) filing fees required in connection with the notification of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the application for or prosecution of any consent, clearance, approval, authorization, registration, filing or submission in accordance with Section 4.3; (iv) all land transfer taxes, transfer taxes and all other taxes, duties, registrations charges or other like charges properly payable in connection with the conveyance and transfer of the Purchased Securities and Purchased Assets; (v) all reasonable costs, expenses and fees associated with the distributions, redemptions and wind-ups contemplated in Section 4.14(1); (vi) all sales and transfer taxes, registration charges and transfer fees, other than the goods and services tax and harmonized sales tax imposed under Part IX of the (Canada) and any similar value-added or multi-staged tax imposed under any applicable provincial or territorial legislation, payable by it in respect of the purchase and sale of the Purchased REIT Property under this Agreement; (vii) all change of control payments as set out in the Disclosure Letter; and (viii) all costs, expenses and fees incurred in dealing with lenders, including mortgage assumption, processing or similar fees. The aggregate Transaction Costs are estimated not to exceed the amount set forth in Disclosure Letter.
"Transaction Costs"
Excise Tax Act
means the trustees of Sunrise REIT.
"Trustees"
 
means the trust indenture dated as of December 23, 2004 between Sunrise REIT and Computershare Trust Company of Canada, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 3, 2006 and the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 6, 2006 providing for the issuance of the Convertible Debentures.
"Trust Indenture"
means the Toronto Stock Exchange.
"TSX"
has the meaning ascribed thereto in Schedule "B".
"Unitholder Approval"
means the special meeting of the Unitholders, including any adjournment or postponement thereof, to be called and held to consider the transactions contemplated hereby.
"Unitholder Meeting"
means a Special Resolution (as defined in the Declaration of Trust) of the Unitholders approving the transactions contemplated hereby, such resolution to be in form and substance satisfactory to Sunrise REIT and the Purchaser, acting reasonably.
"Unitholder Resolution"
"" means the registered or beneficial holders of the issued and outstanding Units, as the context requires.
Unitholders
"" means the unit option plan of Sunrise REIT, implemented by Sunrise REIT as of December 23, 2004, providing for the grant of options to acquire Units, as amended from time to time.
Unit Option Plan
"" means the issued and outstanding trust units of Sunrise REIT, as currently constituted.
Units
means Sunrise Canadian UPREIT, LP, a limited partnership established under the Laws of the Province of Ontario.
"UPREIT"
means Sunrise REIT GP, Inc., a corporation incorporated under the Laws of Ontario.
"UPREIT GP"
means, collectively, Sunrise REIT, the Sub Trust, and the UPREIT.
"Vendors"
has the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 4.1(1)(o).
"Yield Maintenance Confirmation"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") announced today that it has reached a definitive agreement with Sunrise Senior Living REIT (TSE: SZR.UN) ("Sunrise REIT") to acquire its interest in 74 high-quality private pay assisted living communities in the U.S. and Canada and the exclusive right of first offer to acquire other newly developed assets in Canada and portions of the U.S. for Cdn $15.00 per unit, for a total value including debt of Cdn $2.1 billion (or approximately USD $1.8 billion at current exchange rates). The 74 communities are located in demographically desirable metropolitan areas of 17 states and two Canadian provinces. Ventas also expects to acquire for a fixed price five communities in the U.S. and Canada that are currently under development (the "Five Development Properties").
LOUISVILLE, KY (January 15, 2007)
The acquired assets are high-quality new communities, almost all of which were developed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (NYSE: SRZ) ("Sunrise") in its recognizable and award-winning "Sunrise Mansion" style. Sunrise is the manager of all of the properties under the existing long-term management contracts, which will remain in place, and is a minority joint venture partner in 56 of the communities.
"This transaction will add 74 exceptional private pay assets to our diverse high-quality portfolio and is expected to increase our revenue from private pay assets to approximately two-thirds of our total revenue. The acquired assets are all new assisted living communities located in large metropolitan areas, with high barriers to entry, and extraordinary growth prospects. We welcome the opportunity to establish a new, important relationship with Sunrise, the world's premier manager of senior living residences," Ventas Chairman, CEO and President Debra A. Cafaro said. "This transaction will broaden our footprint in North America with entry into the
 
Ventas to Acquire Sunrise Senior Living REIT
January 15, 2007
Page 2
Canadian seniors housing market. With the exclusive right of first offer on additional Sunrise-developed assets in Canada and portions of the U.S., we believe that this transaction will position Ventas for long-term growth and add a new dimension to our diversification program."
"We are moving from one excellent capital partner in the Sunrise REIT to another in Ventas," said Thomas Newell, Sunrise's President. "We are growing rapidly because we see tremendous growth in demand for our resident-centered senior living services. We believe the new Ventas relationship provides a great new partner to help us meet the needs of more seniors."
Of the 74 acquired communities, 63 are located in the U.S., clustered in metropolitan areas of California, Illinois, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York and Colorado, and 11 are located in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia. Three of those assets are currently in lease-up.
Four of the Five Development Properties that Ventas expects to acquire are in the U.S. and one is in Ontario. Two communities, located in Staten Island, New York and Sandy, Utah, opened in late 2006; two communities are expected to open in early to mid-2007; and the Ontario community, which is principally a 229-suite independent living community, is expected to open by 2008.
In 2007, total revenue from the 74 acquired communities should approximate USD $387 million, and net operating income (NOI) should approximate USD $132 million, using current exchange rates. Because Sunrise is a minority joint venture partner in some of the assets, Ventas's share of the total expected revenue and NOI is approximately 85 percent.
The transaction is expected to be initially five to seven cents dilutive to the Company's normalized Funds from Operations (FFO) per share in 2007, and is expected to be break even to the Company's normalized FFO per share in 2008, in each case excluding development properties. The Company expects the transaction to increase Ventas's internal growth rate due to the attractiveness of the assets coupled with the positive fundamentals in the seniors housing market.
BENEFITS OF TRANSACTION
 
 
 
 
Ventas to Acquire Sunrise Senior Living REIT
January 15, 2007
Page 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"The Sunrise REIT communities are desired for their exceptional care and resident-centered services, as well as outstanding architectural and interior design. We believe these communities will continue to be highly successful," Cafaro added.
Completion of the transaction will be subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval by the unitholders of Sunrise REIT. Ventas expects the acquisition to be completed early in the second quarter of 2007, although there can be no assurance that the transaction will close or, if it does, when the closing will occur.
Merrill Lynch & Co. acted as the Company's exclusive financial advisor and delivered a fairness opinion to its Board of Directors. Interim financing for the acquisition will be provided by Merrill Lynch. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and Osler, Hoskin & Harcourt acted as legal advisors to Ventas.
CONFERENCE CALL TUESDAY AT 9:00 A.M. (E.T.)
Ventas will hold a conference call to discuss this press release on Tuesday, January 16, 2007, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Central Time). The conference call is being web cast by CCBN and can be accessed at the Ventas website at . A replay of the web cast will be available at approximately 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on January 16 and will be archived for thirty (30) days.
www.ventasreit.com
Ventas, Inc. is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. Its diverse portfolio of properties located in 43 states includes independent and assisted living facilities, skilled nursing
 
Ventas to Acquire Sunrise Senior Living REIT
January 15, 2007
Page 4
facilities, hospitals and medical office buildings. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at .
http://www.ventasreit.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding Ventas, Inc.'s ("Ventas" or the "Company") and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that may affect the Company's plans or results include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's operators, tenants, borrowers and other third parties to meet and/or perform the obligations under their various contractual arrangements with the Company; (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred"), Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Brookdale") and Alterra Healthcare Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, "Alterra") to meet and/or perform their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold the Company harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities under the Company's respective contractual arrangements with Kindred, Brookdale and Alterra; (c) the ability of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities; (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (e) the nature and extent of future competition; (f) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (g) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing; (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients; (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete; (k) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of and the accounting for the Company's interest rate swap agreement; (m) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (n) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2006; (o) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases, including without limitation Kindred's willingness to renew any or all of its bundles of leased properties expiring in 2008, and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants; (p) risks associated with the proposed acquisition of Sunrise Senior Living REIT, including the Company's ability to successfully complete the transaction on the contemplated terms and to timely and fully realize the expected revenues and cost savings therefrom; (q) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (r) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of such changes on the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred and the Company's earnings; and (s) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, and the ability of the Company's operators, tenants and borrowers to accurately estimate the magnitude of such liabilities. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 


