FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20080523143221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") is re-issuing in an updated format its historical financial statements to satisfy Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") requirements as they relate to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS No. 144").
In compliance with SFAS No. 144, the Company has reported revenues and expenses from properties held for sale during the first three months of 2008 as components of discontinued operations for each period presented (including the comparable period of the prior year) in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, filed with the SEC on May 7, 2008. Under SEC rules, the same reclassification as discontinued operations is required for previously issued annual financial statements for each of the three years presented in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the date of sale. This reclassification has no effect on the Company's reported net income available to common stockholders or funds from operations.
This Current Report on Form 8-K updates Items 6, 7 and 8 of, and Exhibit 12 to, the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the "2007 Form 10-K") to reflect those properties held for sale during the first three months of 2008 as discontinued operations for all periods presented. All other items of the 2007 Form 10-K remain unchanged. The Company has not made any attempt to update the matters in the 2007 Form 10-K, except to the extent expressly provided above.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated in this Item 9.01(b) by reference.
 
Not applicable.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 12.1
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-02717) pertaining to the Vencor, Inc. 1987 Incentive Compensation Program; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-25519) pertaining to the TheraTx, Incorporated 1996 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-61552) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. Common Stock Purchase Plan for Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-65642) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-97251) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-107951) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan for Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-118944) pertaining to the Ventas Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan and Ventas Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-126021) pertaining to the common stock of Ventas, Inc.; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-126639) pertaining to the Ventas Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-133115) pertaining to securities of Ventas, Inc. and subsidiaries; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-136175) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan and Ventas, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan for Directors; and the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-141605) pertaining to the common stock of Ventas, Inc., of our report dated February 27, 2008 (except for Notes 6, 14, 19, and 20, as to which the date is May 22, 2008) with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Ventas, Inc. and our report dated February 27, 2008 with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Ventas, Inc.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
May 22, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
You should read the following selected financial data in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as acquisitions, divestitures, changes in accounting policies and other items impact the comparability of the financial data. Certain revenue and expense amounts have been revised to reflect the disposition of real estate during 2008 which have been reclassified as discontinued operations, for the period presented, in accordance with SFAS No. 144.
 
 
 
The following discussion and analysis provides information which management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, "we," "us" or "our"). You should read this discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Management's Discussion and Analysis will help you understand:
 
 
 
 
 
Key Transactions in 2007
During 2007, we completed the following key transactions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), which requires us to make estimates and judgments about future events that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and the related disclosures. We base estimates on our experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been different, it is possible that different accounting would have been applied, resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we re-evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe that the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect our more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. For more information regarding our critical accounting policies, please see "Note 2Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities over which we exercise control. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation, and net earnings are reduced by the portion of net earnings applicable to minority interests.
Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles
Investments in real estate assets are recorded at cost. We account for acquisitions using the purchase method. The cost of the properties acquired is allocated among tangible and recognized intangible assets and liabilities based upon estimated fair values in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations." We estimate fair values of the components of assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date. Recognized intangibles include the value of acquired lease contracts, management agreements and related customer relationships.
Our method for allocating the purchase price paid to acquire investments in real estate requires us to make subjective assessments for determining fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired or assumed. This includes determining the value of the buildings and improvements, land and improvements, ground leases, tenant improvements, in-place tenant leases, above and/or below market leases, other intangibles embedded in contracts and any debt assumed. Each of these estimates requires significant judgment and some of the estimates involve complex calculations. These allocation assessments have a direct impact on our results of operations, as amounts allocated to some assets and liabilities have different depreciation or amortization lives. Additionally, the amortization of value assigned to above and/or below market leases is recorded as a component of revenue, as compared to the amortization of in-place leases and other intangibles, which is included in depreciation and amortization in our Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We estimate the fair value of buildings on an as-if-vacant basis, and depreciate the building value over the estimated remaining life of the building. We determine the allocated value of other fixed assets based upon the replacement cost and depreciate such value over their estimated remaining useful lives. We determine the value of land either based on real estate tax assessed values in relation to the total value of the asset, internal analyses of recently acquired and existing comparable properties within our portfolio. The fair value of in-place leases, if any, reflects (i) above and below market leases, if any, determined by discounting the difference between the estimated current market rent and the in-place rentals, the resulting intangible asset or liability of which is amortized to revenue over the remaining life of the associated lease plus any fixed rate renewal periods, if applicable, (ii) the estimated value of the cost to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances, tenant improvements and leasing commissions, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease, and (iii) an estimated value of the absorption period to reflect the value of the rents and recovery costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the acquired space was vacant, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease. We also estimate the value of tenant or other customer relationships acquired by considering the nature and extent of existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality, expectations of lease renewals with the tenant, and the potential for significant, additional future leasing arrangements with the tenant. We amortize such value over the expected term of the associated arrangements or leases, which would include the remaining lives of the related leases and any expected renewal periods. The fair value of long-term debt is calculated by discounting the remaining contractual cash flows on each instrument at the current market rate for those borrowings. Discount rates are approximated based on the rate we estimate we would incur to replace each instrument on the date of acquisition. Any fair value adjustments related to long-term debt are recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instrument.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment indicators in accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying operations and adjust the net book value of leased properties and other long-lived assets to fair value if the sum of the expected future cash flows and sales proceeds is less than book value. An impairment loss is recognized at the time we make any such determination. Future events could occur which would cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted. We did not record any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
Loans and Other Amounts Receivable from Third Parties
We evaluate the collectibility of loans and other amounts receivable from third parties based on a number of factors, including (i) corporate and facility-level financial and operations reports, (ii) compliance with the financial covenants set forth in the borrowing or lease agreement, (iii) the financial stability of the applicable borrower or tenant and any guarantor and (iv) the payment history of the borrower or tenant. Our level of reserves, if any, for loans and other amounts receivable from third parties fluctuates depending upon all of these factors.
Revenue Recognition
Certain of our leases, excluding our master lease agreements with Kindred (the "Kindred Master Leases"), but including the majority of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, which include Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. and Alterra Healthcare Corporation, "Brookdale Senior Living"), provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent. Base rental revenues under these leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. Income on our straight-line revenue is recognized when collectibility is reasonably assured. In the event we determine that collectibility of straight-line revenue is not reasonably assured, we establish an allowance for estimated losses. Recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis results in recognized revenue exceeding cash amounts contractually due from our tenants during the first half of the term for leases that have straight-line treatment.
Certain of our other leases, including the Kindred Master Leases, provide for an annual increase in rental payments only if certain revenue parameters or other contingencies are met. We recognize the increased rental revenue under these leases only if the revenue parameters or other contingencies are met rather than on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. We recognize income from rent, lease termination fees and other income once all of the following criteria are met in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") Staff Accounting Bulletin 104: (i) the agreement has been fully executed and delivered; (ii) services have been rendered; (iii) the amount is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.
Resident fees and services are recognized monthly as services are provided. Move in fees, which are included in resident fees and services, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease agreement. Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days' notice.
Gain on Sale of Assets
We recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits and classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when the collectibility of the sales price is reasonably assured, we are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the profit, we have received adequate initial investment from the buyer, and other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain recognition on sales of real estate under SFAS No. 66, "Accounting for Sales of Real Estate."
Federal Income Tax
Since we have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), prior to the second quarter of 2007 we made no provision for federal income tax purposes and we will continue to make no provision for REIT income and expense. As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, income tax expense or benefit is now being recorded with respect to certain entities which are taxed as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT provisions.
Deferred income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. An increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes when it is uncertain how an income or expense item should be treated on an income tax return. FIN 48 describes when and in what amount an uncertain tax item should be recorded in the financial statements and provides guidance on recording interest and penalties and accounting and reporting for income taxes in interim periods. We adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." This statement defines fair value and provides guidance for measuring fair value and the necessary disclosures. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements, but rather applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. We adopted SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations." SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to measure the assets acquired, liabilities assumed (including contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair values on the acquisition date. The statement also requires that acquisition-related transaction costs be expensed as incurred and acquired research and development value be capitalized. In addition, acquisition-related restructuring costs are to be capitalized only if they meet certain criteria. SFAS No. 141(R) will be effective for us beginning on January 1, 2009. Early adoption is prohibited. We have not yet determined the impact, if any, the adoption of this new accounting pronouncement is expected to have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In December 2007, the FASB also issued SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51." SFAS No. 160 requires the classification of noncontrolling interests (formerly, minority interests) as a component of consolidated equity. In addition, net income will include the total income of all consolidated subsidiaries with the attribution of earnings and other comprehensive income between controlling and noncontrolling interests reported as a separate disclosure on the face of the consolidated income statement. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. SFAS No. 160 also addresses accounting and reporting for a change in control of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 will be effective for us beginning on January 1, 2009. Early adoption is prohibited. This statement is required to be adopted prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which are required to be adopted retrospectively. We have not yet determined the impact, if any, the adoption of this new accounting pronouncement is expected to have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Results of Operations
The tables below show our results of operations for each year and the absolute dollar and percentage changes in those results from year to year (dollars in thousands).
 
Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
 
 
nmnot meaningful
Revenues
Rental income included in discontinued operations was $13.0 million and $19.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in our 2007 rental income, excluding rental income allocated to discontinued operations, primarily reflects (i) $26.4 million of additional rent resulting from the annual escalator in the rent paid under the Kindred Master Leases effective May 1, 2007 and the Kindred rent reset that was effective July 19, 2006, (ii) $7.6 million in additional rent relating to the properties acquired during 2007 (excluding the Sunrise REIT properties), (iii) $41.1 million in additional rent relating to the full year effect in 2007 of properties acquired during 2006, and various other escalations in the rent paid on our existing properties. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Resident fees and services are a direct result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition and are attributed to the period from April 26, 2007 through December 31, 2007. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These amounts consist of all amounts earned from residents at our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise, including rental fees related to resident leases, extended health care fees and other ancillary service income.
 
Interest income from loans receivable, which includes amortization of deferred fees, decreased $4.4 million in 2007 primarily due to the repayment of a bridge loan made in 2006 to affiliates of the seller of the Senior Care properties. The bridge loan bore interest at a rate of approximately 10.4% and was repaid upon consummation of the Senior Care acquisition in November 2006. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We recognized approximately $3.4 million of interest income from this loan during 2006. Additionally, three of the six first mortgage loans we issued during 2005 were repaid in May 2007, representing a decrease in interest income from loans receivable of approximately $0.8 million.
Expenses
Interest expense included in discontinued operations was $5.0 million and $7.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Total interest expense, including interest allocated to discontinued operations, increased $65.2 million in 2007 over 2006, primarily due to $71.8 million of additional interest from higher loan balances as a result of our 2007 acquisition and loan activity, partially offset by a $9.2 million reduction in interest from lower effective interest rates. In 2007, we also recognized a $2.6 million expense for upfront fees on bridge financing related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. Interest expense includes $5.5 million and $3.3 million of amortized deferred financing costs for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our effective interest rate decreased to 7.0% for the year ended December 31, 2007, from 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to depreciation relating to the properties acquired during 2007 and 2006. Additionally, we incurred amortization expense of approximately $56.1 million related to in-place lease intangibles from the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Property-level operating expenses increased primarily due to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. Property-level operating expenses include all expenses related to our medical office building operations and all amounts incurred for the operations of our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise for the period from April 26, 2007 through December 31, 2007, such as labor, food, utilities, marketing, management and other property operating costs.
The increase in general, administrative and professional fees is due primarily to increased stock-based compensation and increases in other general and administrative items resulting from our enterprise growth.
In connection with the rent reset process under the Kindred Master Leases, we incurred approximately $7.4 million of one-time costs which we expensed during 2006. These costs included fees of the final appraisers and third party experts, consulting fees and legal fees and expenses. No similar costs were incurred during 2007.
During 2006, we were notified by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") that it had completed its audit of our 2001 federal tax return with no additional tax being due. Accordingly, we reversed into income a previously recorded $1.8 million tax liability related to uncertainties surrounding the outcome of this audit. No similar activity occurred during 2007.
The gain on extinguishment of debt in 2007 represents the purchase of $5.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 7
 1
/
8
% senior notes due 2015 in an open market transaction for a discount. The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2006 represents the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs related to the refinancing of our previous secured revolving credit facility during the second quarter of 2006.
The foreign currency gain for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily relates to the Canadian call option contracts that we entered into in conjunction with the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 2Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. No similar contracts were in place for the comparable 2006 period.
Merger-related expenses were incurred in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition and include incremental costs directly related to the acquisition and expenses relating to our lawsuit against HCP, Inc.
Income tax benefit represents a deferred benefit which is due solely to our taxable REIT subsidiaries as a direct result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 12Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Minority interest, net of tax primarily represents Sunrise's share of net income from the Sunrise REIT properties based on its ownership percentage in 61 of our seniors housing communities.
 
Preferred stock dividends and issuance costs relate to the issuance of 700,000 shares of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, all of which were redeemed in May 2007 using the proceeds from the sale of our common stock. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Discontinued Operations
The increase in discontinued operations is primarily due to the $3.5 million lease termination fee and the $129.5 million gain on sale of real estate assets recognized in the second quarter of 2007 resulting primarily from the sale of 22 properties to Kindred. See "Note 6Dispositions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005
 
 
nmnot meaningful
Revenues
Rental income included in discontinued operations was $19.5 million and $21.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in our 2006 rental income, including rental income allocated to discontinued operations, reflects the recognition of (i) $11.3 million in additional rent relating to the properties acquired during 2006 ($7.0 million relates to the Senior Care acquisition), (ii) $58.9 million in additional rent relating to the full year effect in 2006 of properties acquired during 2005 ($46.4 million relates to the Provident Senior Living Trust acquisition), (see "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), (iii) $15 million of rental income resulting from the rent reset under the Kindred Master Leases, (iv) a $6.8 million increase in rent from Kindred resulting from the 3.5% annual escalator under the Kindred Master Leases effective May 1, 2006 (prior to the rent reset) and (v) $1.7 million of additional rental income resulting from rent escalations on various other properties.
 
Interest income from loans receivable, which includes amortization of deferred fees, increased $2.0 million in 2006 primarily as a result of a bridge loan issued to affiliates of the seller of the Senior Care properties, which bore interest at a rate of approximately 10.4% during the time the loan remained outstanding. We recognized approximately $3.4 million of interest income from this loan, which was repaid upon consummation of the Senior Care transaction in November 2006. This was partially offset by a net decrease of $1.7 million from interest income in connection with a $17.0 million mezzanine loan made to Trans Healthcare, Inc. in 2002, as this loan was repaid in full in March 2006. See "Note 8Loans Receivable" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Expenses
Interest expense includes $3.3 million and $3.9 million of amortized deferred financing costs for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest expense included in discontinued operations was $7.0 million and $8.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Total interest expense, including interest allocated to discontinued operations, increased $34.9 million in 2006 over 2005, primarily due to $40.7 million of additional interest expense due to increased debt to fund acquisitions made during 2006, partially offset by a $5.8 million decrease from lower effective interest rates. Our effective interest rate decreased to 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2006, from 7.6% for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to the properties acquired during 2006 and 2005. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The increase in general, administrative and professional fees is attributable primarily to the expensing of stock options as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), "Share Based Payment," at the beginning of 2006.
In April 2006, we refinanced our previous $300.0 million secured revolving credit facility and entered into a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, resulting in a loss from extinguishment of debt of $1.3 million primarily related to the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs. In December 2005, we paid off our commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS") loan and incurred a loss on extinguishment of debt of $1.4 million primarily related to the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.
In connection with the Kindred rent reset process, we incurred approximately $7.4 million of one-time costs which we expensed during 2006. These costs included fees of the final appraisers and third-party experts, consulting fees and legal fees and expenses.
During 2006, we were notified by the IRS that it had completed its audit of our 2001 federal tax return with no additional tax being due. Accordingly, we reversed into income a previously recorded $1.8 million tax liability related to uncertainties surrounding the outcome of this audit. See "Note 13Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As a result of anticipated lower variable rate debt balances due to the payoff of our CMBS loan in December 2005, we entered into an agreement with the counterparty to our interest rate swap to reduce the notional amount of the swap to $100.0 million, from $330.0 million, for its remaining term in exchange for a payment to the counterparty of approximately $2.3 million. In addition, we recognized $3.3 million of a previously deferred gain recorded in connection with our 1999 transaction to shorten the maturity of a separate interest rate swap.
During 2005, we settled our previously disclosed litigation against Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and received net proceeds of $15.9 million, after payment of expenses in connection with the settlement. See "Note 15Litigation" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
With $2.0 million of the net proceeds received from the litigation settlement, we established and funded the Ventas Charitable Foundation, Inc. (the "Foundation") in 2005. The Foundation is used to support charitable and philanthropic causes important to our employees and to the communities in which we operate.
Discontinued Operations
The decrease in discontinued operations is a result of the sale of one property in 2005 for $9.9 million in net cash proceeds and a recognized net gain on the sale of $5.1 million. In addition, the tenant paid us lease termination fees of approximately $0.2 million. See "Note 6Dispositions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Funds from Operations
Our funds from operations ("FFO") for the five years ended December 31, 2007 are summarized in the following table:
 
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values, instead, have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, we consider FFO an appropriate measure of performance of an equity REIT and we use the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate property, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.
FFO presented herein is not necessarily comparable to FFO presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definition. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of our financial performance or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of our liquidity, nor is FFO necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of our needs. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our consolidated historical operating results, FFO should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements and data included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Asset/Liability Management
Asset/liability management is a key element of our overall risk management program. The objective of asset/liability management is to support the achievement of business strategies while maintaining appropriate risk levels. The asset/liability management process focuses on a variety of risks, including market risk (primarily interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk) and credit risk. Effective management of these risks is an important determinant of the absolute levels and variability of FFO and net worth. The following discussion addresses our integrated management of assets and liabilities, including the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Market Risk
We receive a significant portion of our revenue by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual escalators, subject to certain limitations. We also earn revenue from our senior living operations and our real estate loan investments. Our obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility and our Canadian credit facility are floating rate obligations whose interest rate and related monthly interest payments vary with the movement in LIBOR and Bankers' Acceptance, respectively.
The general fixed nature of our assets subject to long-term triple-net leases and the variable nature of our obligations create interest rate risk. If interest rates were to rise significantly, our lease and other revenue might not be sufficient to meet our debt obligations. In order to mitigate this risk, in September 2001, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement in the
 
original notional amount of $450.0 million to hedge floating rate debt for the period between July 1, 2003 and June 30, 2008 (the "Swap"). The Swap is treated as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes and is with a highly rated counterparty on which we pay a fixed rate of 5.385% and receive LIBOR from the counterparty. In December 2003, due to our lower expected future variable rate debt balances as a result of the sale of ten properties, we reduced the notional amount of the Swap for the period from December 11, 2003 through June 29, 2006 from $450.0 million to $330.0 million. In December 2005, due to our lower expected future variable rate debt balances as a result of the payoff of our CMBS loan, we further reduced the notional amount of the Swap to $100.0 million for the remaining term of the Swap. See "Note 9Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There are no collateral requirements under the Swap. As of December 31, 2007, the notional amount of the Swap was $100.0 million, which is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2008.
To highlight the sensitivity of the Swap and our fixed rate debt to changes in interest rates, the following summary shows the effects of a hypothetical instantaneous change of 100 basis points (BPS) in interest rates as of December 31, 2007 and 2006:
 
 
N/A Not applicable.
We paid $0.2 million under the Swap during the year ended December 31, 2007. Assuming that interest rates do not change, we estimate that we will pay $0.9 million on the Swap during the year ending December 31, 2008.
We had approximately $467.8 million and $284.7 million of variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in our outstanding variable rate debt from December 31, 2006 is primarily attributable to additional net borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and our Canadian credit facility of $92.3 million and $89.7 million, respectively, and the assumption of additional variable debt from the properties managed by Sunrise totaling $121.4 million as of December 31, 2007, offset by the repayment of $114.8 million in variable mortgage debt in January 2007 assumed as part of the Senior Care acquisition. The Swap currently effectively hedges $100.0 million of our outstanding variable rate debt. Any amounts of variable rate debt in excess of $100.0 million are subject to interest rate changes. However, pursuant to the terms of certain leases with one of our tenants, if interest rates increase on certain debt that we have totaling $98.1 million as of December 31, 2007, our tenant is required to pay us additional rent (on a dollar-for-dollar basis) in an amount equal to the increase in interest expense resulting from the increased interest rates. Therefore, the increase in interest expense related to this debt is equally offset by an increase in additional rent due to us from the tenant. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable-rate debt, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of December 31, 2007, interest expense for 2008 would increase by approximately $2.7 million, or $0.02 per common share on a diluted basis. The fair value of our fixed and variable rate debt is based on current interest rates at which similar borrowings could be made by us.
We initially acquired eleven seniors housing communities in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia as part of the Sunrise REIT acquisition. In addition, we acquired for a fixed price another newly developed community in Canada in December 2007. As a result, we are subject to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian exchange rates which may, from time to time, have an impact on our financial position and results of operations. As we increase our international presence through investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and/or healthcare-related assets outside the United States, we may also decide to transact additional business in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars. Although we may decide to pursue hedging alternatives (including additional borrowings in local currencies) to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that any such fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and liquidity, on our ability to service our indebtedness and other obligations and on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT.
 
We may engage in additional hedging strategies in the future, depending on management's analysis of the interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate environments and the costs and risks of such strategies. Our market risk sensitive instruments are not entered into for trading purposes.
Credit Risk
As a result of our spin off of Kindred in May 1998 and the Provident acquisition in June 2005, we have a significant concentration of credit risk with Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, Kindred accounted for $240.6 million, or 30.8% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations), and $220.9 million, or 51.6% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations), respectively, and Brookdale Senior Living accounted for $122.8 million, or 15.7% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations), and $122.7 million, or 28.6% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations), respectively. Accordingly, the financial condition of Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living and their ability to meet our rent obligations will largely determine our rental revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, any failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively conduct its operations could have a material adverse effect on its business reputation or on its ability to enlist and maintain patients in its facilities. See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our BusinessWe are dependent on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living; either of Kindred's or Brookdale Senior Living's inability or unwillingness to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could significantly harm us and our ability to service our indebtedness and other obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and "Note 4Concentration of Credit Risk" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We monitor our credit risk under our lease agreements with our tenants by, among other things, (i) reviewing and analyzing information regarding the healthcare industry generally, publicly available information regarding tenants, and information provided by the tenants and borrowers under our lease and other agreements, and (ii) having periodic discussions with tenants, borrowers and their representatives.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
During 2007, our principal sources of liquidity were proceeds from a bridge loan, preferred equity issuance, dispositions, common stock offering, cash flows from operations and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and our Canadian credit facility. We anticipate that cash flows from operations over the next twelve months will be adequate to fund our business operations, dividends to stockholders and debt amortization. Capital requirements for acquisitions, however, may require funding from borrowings, assumption of debt from the seller, and issuance of secured or unsecured long-term debt or other securities.
The $28.3 million of cash and cash equivalents held at December 31, 2007 consists primarily of cash related to our seniors housing communities that is deposited and held in property-level accounts. Funds maintained in the property-level accounts are used primarily for the payment of property-level expenses and certain capital expenditures. Our ownership share of property-level cash in excess of stipulated amounts set forth in the Sunrise management agreements is currently being distributed to us monthly.
We intend to continue to fund future investments through cash flows from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, assumption of indebtedness, disposition of assets (in whole or in part through joint venture arrangements with third parties) and issuance of secured or unsecured long-term debt or other securities. As of December 31, 2007, we had escrow deposits and restricted cash of $54.1 million and unused credit availability of $446.0 million under our unsecured revolving credit facility and Cdn $0.9 million under the Canadian credit facility.
Revolving Credit Facilities
Our unsecured revolving credit facility borrowing capacity is $600.0 million. Generally, borrowings outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a fluctuating LIBOR-based rate per annum plus an applicable percentage based on our consolidated leverage. The applicable percentage was 0.75% at December 31, 2007.
 
On July 27, 2007, we amended our unsecured revolving credit facility to include a $150.0 million "accordion" feature that permits us to expand our borrowing capacity to a total of $750.0 million upon satisfaction of certain conditions. Pricing under the unsecured revolving credit facility did not change and we did not record any material expenses or charges in connection with the amendment.
On August 24, 2007, we entered into the Canadian credit facility. Generally, borrowings outstanding under the Canadian credit facility bear interest at a fluctuating "Bankers' Acceptance" rate per annum plus an applicable percentage based on our consolidated leverage. As of December 31, 2007, the applicable percentage was 0.75%.
On January 24, 2008, we amended the Canadian credit facility to expand our borrowing capacity to a total of Cdn $105.0 million. We also extended the original maturity date from February 24, 2008 to May 24, 2008. We may further extend the maturity date for an additional three months subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.
Convertible Senior Notes
In December 2006, we completed the offering of $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3
 7
/
8
%
 
Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "Convertible Notes"). The Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holder (i) prior to September 15, 2011, upon the occurrence of specified events and (ii) on or after September 15, 2011, at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to the stated maturity, in each case into cash up to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and cash or shares of our common stock, at our election, in respect of any conversion value in excess of the principal amount at an initial conversion rate of 22.1867 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which equates to an initial conversion price of approximately $45.07 per share). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of a quarterly dividend in excess of $0.395 per share. As of December 31, 2007, the adjusted conversion rate was 22.3615 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which equates to a conversion price of approximately $44.72 per share). To the extent the market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price our earnings per share will be diluted.
Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the Convertible Notes offering, we filed a registration statement covering resales by the holders of shares of our common stock, if any, issued upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. We will not receive any proceeds in connection with any such resales.
As of December 31, 2007, $230.0 million principal amount of Convertible Notes were outstanding. Certain of our subsidiaries have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the Convertible Notes.
Senior Notes Offerings
In September 2006, we completed the offering of $225.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6
 
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Senior Notes") of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Issuers") at a 5/8% discount to par value.
In December 2005, we completed the offering of $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6
 
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Senior Notes") of the Issuers at a 1/2% discount to par value.
In June 2005, we completed the offering of $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2010 (the "2010 Senior Notes") of the Issuers, and $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Senior Notes") of the Issuers. In June 2005, we also completed the offering of $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Senior Notes") of the Issuers, which was in addition to the $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2014 Senior Notes originally issued in October 2004. The additional $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Senior Notes was issued at a 1% discount to par value. The additional $50.0 million aggregate principal amount and the original $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Senior Notes are governed by the same indenture. On August 3, 2007, we purchased $5.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 2015 Senior Notes in an open market transaction.
Pursuant to registration rights agreements entered into in connection with the 2010 Senior Notes, 2015 Senior Notes and additional 2014 Senior Notes offerings, on October 28, 2005, we completed offers to exchange the 2010 Senior Notes, 2015 Senior Notes and additional 2014 Senior Notes with new series of notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and are otherwise substantially identical to the original 2010 Senior Notes, 2015 Senior Notes and 2014 Senior Notes, except that certain transfer restrictions, registration rights and liquidated damages do not apply to the new notes. We did not receive any additional proceeds in connection with the exchange offers.
Pursuant to the registration rights agreements entered into in connection with the 2016 Senior Notes offerings, on April 7, 2006, we completed an offer to exchange the 2016 Senior Notes with a new series of notes that are registered under the Securities Act and are otherwise substantially identical to the original 2016 Senior Notes, except that certain transfer restrictions, registration rights and liquidated damages do not apply to the new notes. We did not receive any additional proceeds in connection with the exchange offer.
 
As of December 31, 2007, $174.2 million principal amount of 8
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2009 (the "2009 Senior Notes") of the Issuers, $175.0 million principal amount of 2010 Senior Notes, $191.8 million principal amount of 9% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "2012 Senior Notes") of the Issuers, $175.0 million principal amount of 2014 Senior Notes, $170.0 million principal amount of 2015 Senior Notes, $200.0 million principal amount of 2016 Senior Notes and $225.0 million principal amount of the 2017 Senior Notes (collectively, the "Senior Notes") were outstanding. We and certain of our subsidiaries have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the Senior Notes.
The agreements governing our revolving credit facilities, the Senior Notes and the Convertible Notes subject us to a number of restrictive covenants. See "Note 9Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Dividends
In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to our stockholders of at least 90% of REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gain). We declared dividends greater than 100% of estimated taxable income for 2007 and intend to pay a dividend greater than 100% of taxable income for 2008.
We expect that REIT taxable income will be less than cash flow due to the allowance of depreciation and other non-cash deductions in computing REIT taxable income. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, it is possible that from time to time we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. If we do not have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, or if we desire to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements.
Capital Expenditures
Capital expenditures to maintain and improve our triple-net leased properties generally will be incurred by our tenants. Accordingly, we do not believe that we will incur any major expenditures in connection with these triple-net leased properties. After the terms of the triple-net leases expire, or in the event that the tenants are unable or unwilling to meet their obligations under the triple-net leases, we anticipate that any expenditures relating to the maintenance of these triple-net leased properties for which we may become responsible will be funded by cash flows from operations or through additional borrowings. With respect to our senior living communities managed by Sunrise and our MOBs, we believe that capital expenditures will be funded by the cash flows from the properties or through additional borrowings. To the extent that unanticipated expenditures or significant borrowings are required, our liquidity may be affected adversely. Our ability to borrow funds may be restricted in certain circumstances by the terms of our revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes.
Equity Offerings
In May 2007, we completed the sale of 26,910,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our current shelf registration statement. We received $1.05 billion in net proceeds from the sale, which we used along with the proceeds of the disposition of the Kindred assets (see "Note 6Dispositions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility to redeem all of our outstanding Series A Senior Preferred Stock and to repay our indebtedness under the senior interim loan used to fund a portion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition.
Our automatic universal shelf registration statement, filed with the Commission in April 2006, relates to the sale, from time to time, of an indeterminate amount of debt securities and related guarantees, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The registration statement replaced our previous universal shelf registration statement, under which approximately $500.0 million of securities remained available for offering.
In July 2005, we completed the sale of 3,247,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our previous shelf registration statement. We received $97.0 million in net proceeds from the sale, which we used to repay indebtedness under our previous secured revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes, including the funding of acquisitions.
In February 2008, we completed the sale of 4,485,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our current shelf registration statement. We received $191.9 million in net proceeds, before expenses but after the underwriting discount, from the sale, which we used in part to repay indebtedness and will use for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including to fund future acquisitions, if any.
 
Other
During 2007 and 2006, we assumed facility-level mortgage debt in connection with certain property acquisitions, including the Sunrise REIT and Senior Care acquisitions. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Outstanding facility-level mortgage debt was approximately $1.6 billion and $734.0 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
We received proceeds on the exercises of stock options in the amounts of $9.8 million and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future proceeds on the exercises of stock options will be primarily affected by the future performance of our stock price and the number of options outstanding. Options outstanding have decreased to 950,395 as of December 31, 2007, from 1,156,051 as of December 31, 2006.
We generated net proceeds from our Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan of $1.1 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In March 2005, we began offering a 1% discount on the purchase price of our stock to shareholders who reinvest their dividends and/or make optional cash purchases of common stock through the plan. Each month or quarter, as applicable, we may lower or eliminate the discount without prior notice, thereby affecting the future proceeds that we receive from this plan.
We have outstanding loans made at various times from 1998 through 2002 to certain current and former executive officers in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.1 million as of December 31, 2007, down from $2.5 million at December 31, 2006. The loans are payable over ten years beginning, in each case, on the date such loan was made. See "Note 17Related Party Transactions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Cash Flows
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $399.8 million and $238.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase is due to FFO that was higher for the year ended December 31, 2007 as a result of our real estate acquisitions (primarily the Sunrise REIT acquisition), rent escalations in our leases with tenants and additional rent resulting from the rent reset under the Kindred Master Leases, and changes in operating assets and liabilities at December 31, 2007.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $1.2 billion and $482.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These activities consisted primarily of our investments in real estate, offset by proceeds from our mortgage loans, the sale of securities and the sale of assets during the applicable periods. The increase from 2006 is due primarily to the Sunrise REIT acquisition.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $805.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Proceeds primarily consisted of $1.2 billion in bridge financing, $1.05 billion from the issuance of common stock, $176.6 million of net borrowings on our unsecured revolving credit facility and our Canadian credit facility and $53.8 million from the issuance of other debt. The uses primarily included (i) $1.2 billion for repayment of the bridge financing, (ii) $286.2 million of cash dividend payments to common and preferred stockholders and (iii) $184.6 million of aggregate principal payments on mortgage obligations.
Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $242.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, down from $389.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The proceeds included $449.0 million from the issuance of Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and other debt and $7.5 million from the issuance of common stock upon the exercise of stock options and from our Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The uses primarily included (i) aggregate principal payments on mortgage obligations of $16.1 million, (ii) $160.6 million of cash dividend payments, (iii) payments of deferred financing costs of $4.9 million associated with the issuance of Senior Notes and (iv) net change in borrowings on our unsecured revolving credit facility and our previous secured revolving credit facility of $32.2 million.
 
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes the effect that minimum debt (which includes principal and interest payments) and other material noncancelable commitments are expected to have on our cash flow in future periods as of December 31, 2007.
 
 
As of December 31, 2007, we had $9.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits under the provisions of FIN 48 that have been excluded from the table above, as we are unable to make a reasonable reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authority.
In connection with the Kindred spin off, we assigned our former third-party lease obligations and third-party guarantee agreements to Kindred. As of December 31, 2007, we believe that the aggregate exposure under our third-party lease obligations was approximately $16.0 million and that we have no material exposure under the third-party guarantee agreements. Kindred has agreed to indemnify and hold us harmless from and against all claims against us arising out of the third-party leases, and we do not expect to incur any liability under those leases. However, we cannot assure you that Kindred will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy, or that it will continue to honor its obligations under the indemnity agreement relating to the third-party leases. See "Note 13Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
The information set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsAsset/Liability Management" is incorporated by reference into this Item 7A.
 
 
 
Management of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management, with the participation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management has determined that the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 was effective.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
On April 26, 2007, the Company acquired Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust ("Sunrise REIT"). As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, the Company is party to management agreements with Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. ("Sunrise") pursuant to which Sunrise provides comprehensive accounting and property management services for each of the Sunrise REIT properties, as well as two additional properties the Company acquired subsequent to the Sunrise REIT acquisition (collectively, the "Sunrise Properties"). As permitted under Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines, the Company excluded from the assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, internal control over financial reporting of the Sunrise Properties' assets and operations. Net assets and total revenues related to the Sunrise Properties represented 38.1% and 36.6%, respectively, of the Company's related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007.
The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report included herein.
 
Stockholders and Board of Directors
Ventas, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ventas, Inc. as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits also include the financial statement schedule listed in the index. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of Ventas, Inc.'s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Ventas, Inc. at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2006 Ventas, Inc. changed its method of accounting for stock-based compensation.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Ventas, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 27, 2008, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
 
Stockholders and Board of Directors
Ventas, Inc.
We have audited Ventas, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in "Internal ControlIntegrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Ventas, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
As indicated in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management's assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include internal control over financial reporting of the Sunrise Properties' assets and operations, which is included in the 2007 consolidated financial statements of Ventas, Inc. and constituted 38.1% and 36.6%, of net assets and total revenues, respectively, of the Company's related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Ventas, Inc. also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of the Sunrise Properties' assets and operations.
In our opinion, Ventas, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the COSO criteria
.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Ventas, Inc. as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits also include the financial statement schedule listed in the index. Our report dated February 27, 2008 (except for Notes 6, 14, 19, and 20, as to which the date is May 22, 2008) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1Description of Business
Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, "we," "us" or "our") is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare-related properties in the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2007, this portfolio consisted of 519 assets: 253 seniors housing communities, 197 skilled nursing facilities, 42 hospitals and 27 medical office and other properties in 43 states and two Canadian provinces, including 77 seniors housing communities we acquired from Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust ("Sunrise REIT") on April 26, 2007. See "Note 5Acquisitions." With the exception of our medical office buildings ("MOBs") and 79 of our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Sunrise") pursuant to long-term management agreements, we lease these properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred") leased 203 of our properties and Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, which include Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. ("Brookdale") and Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra"), "Brookdale Senior Living") leased 83 of our properties as of December 31, 2007. We also had real estate loan investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare-related third parties as of December 31, 2007.
We conduct substantially all of our business through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("Ventas Realty"), PSLT OP, L.P. and Ventas SSL, Inc., and ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership ("ETOP"), in which we own substantially all of the partnership units. Our primary business consists of financing, owning and leasing seniors housing and healthcare-related properties and leasing or subleasing those properties to third parties or operating those properties through independent third party managers.
Note 2Accounting Policies
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities over which we exercise control. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation, and net earnings are reduced by the portion of net earnings applicable to minority interests.
Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of rental revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles
Investments in real estate assets are recorded at cost. We account for acquisitions using the purchase method. The cost of the properties acquired is allocated among tangible and recognized intangible assets and liabilities based upon estimated fair values in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations." We estimate fair values of the components of assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date. Recognized intangibles include the value of acquired lease contracts, management agreements and related customer relationships.
Our method for determining fair value varies with the categorization of the asset or liability acquired. We estimate the fair value of buildings on an as-if-vacant basis, and depreciate the building value over the estimated remaining life of the building. We determine the allocated value of other fixed assets based upon the replacement cost and depreciate such value over their estimated remaining useful lives. We determine the value of land either based on real estate tax assessed values in relation to the total value of the asset, internal analyses of recently acquired and existing comparable properties within our portfolio. The fair value of in-place leases, if any, reflects (i) above and below market leases, if any, determined by discounting the difference between the estimated current market rent and the in-place rentals, the resulting intangible asset or liability of which is amortized to revenue over the remaining life of the associated lease plus any fixed rate renewal periods, if applicable, (ii) the estimated value of the cost to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances, tenant improvements and leasing commissions, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease, and (iii) an estimated value of the absorption period to reflect the value of the rents and recovery costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the acquired space was vacant, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease. We also estimate the value of tenant or other customer relationships acquired by considering the nature and extent of existing business relationships with
 
the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality, expectations of lease renewals with the tenant, and the potential for significant, additional future leasing arrangements with the tenant. We amortize such value over the expected term of the associated arrangements or leases, which would include the remaining lives of the related leases and any expected renewal periods. The fair value of long-term debt is calculated by discounting the remaining contractual cash flows on each instrument at the current market rate for those borrowings. Discount rates are approximated based on the rate we estimate we would incur to replace each instrument on the date of acquisition. Any fair value adjustments related to long-term debt are recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instrument.
Fixtures and equipment, with a net book value of $113.6 million and $108.8 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, is included in net real estate property on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Depreciation is recorded on the straight-line basis, using estimated useful lives ranging from 20 to 50 years for buildings and improvements and three to ten years for fixtures and equipment. Depreciation is discontinued when a property is identified as held for sale.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment indicators in accordance with SFAS No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying operations. We adjust the net book value of leased properties and other long-lived assets to fair value, if the sum of the expected future cash flows and sales proceeds is less than book value. An impairment loss is recognized at the time we make any such determination. Future events could occur which would cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted. We did not record any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.
Loans and Other Amounts Receivable from Third Parties
Loans receivable are stated at the unpaid principal balance net of any deferred origination fees. Net deferred origination fees are comprised of loan fees collected from the borrower net of certain direct costs. Net deferred origination fees are amortized over the contractual life of the loan using the level yield method. Interest income on the loans receivable is recorded as earned. We evaluate the collectibility of loans and other amounts receivable from third parties based on, a number of factors, including (i) corporate and facility-level financial and operational reports, (ii) compliance with the financial covenants set forth in the borrowing or lease agreement, (iii) the financial stability of the applicable borrower or tenant and any guarantor and (iv) the payment history of the borrower or tenant. Our level of reserves, if any, for loans and other amounts receivable from third parties fluctuates depending upon all of these factors. No reserves were recorded against our loans receivable balance at December 31, 2007 and 2006.
Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with a maturity date of three months or less when purchased. These investments are stated at cost which approximates fair value.
Escrow Deposits and Restricted Cash
Escrow deposits consist of amounts held by us or lenders to provide for future real estate tax and insurance expenditures and tenant improvements related to our operations and properties. Restricted cash represents amounts paid to us for security deposits and other purposes.
Deferred Financing Costs
Deferred financing costs are amortized as a component of interest expense over the terms of the related borrowings using a method that approximates a level yield, and are net of accumulated amortization of approximately $13.5 million and $7.5 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Amortized costs of approximately $5.5 million, $3.3 million and $3.9 million were included in interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Marketable Equity Securities
We record marketable equity securities as available-for-sale in accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." These securities are recorded at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in stockholder's equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Gains or losses on securities sold are based on the specific identification method and reported in interest and other income on our Consolidated Statements of Income. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we realized gains related to the sale of various equity securities of $0.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively. There were no gains or losses realized for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Derivative Instruments
We use derivative instruments to protect against the risk of interest rate movements on future cash flows under our variable rate debt agreements and the risk of foreign currency exchange rate movements. In accordance with SFAS No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended, derivative instruments are reported at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized as adjustments to net income if the derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting. If the derivative is deemed to be eligible for hedge accounting, such changes are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, exclusive of ineffectiveness amounts, which are recognized as adjustments to net income. As of December 31, 2007, a $0.5 million net unrealized loss on our interest rate swap is included in accumulated other comprehensive income.
In January 2007, we entered into two Canadian call options in conjunction with our agreement to acquire the assets of Sunrise REIT. See "Note 5Acquisitions." We paid an aggregate purchase price of $8.5 million for these contracts, which had an aggregate notional call amount of Cdn $750.0 million at a Cdn $1.18 strike price. These contracts were settled on April 26, 2007, the acquisition date, and we received cash of $33.2 million upon settlement. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized gains related to these call option contracts of $24.7 million, which is included in our Consolidated Statements of Income as a foreign currency gain.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair value disclosures for financial instruments.
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue Recognition
Certain of our leases, excluding our master lease agreements with Kindred (the "Kindred Master Leases") but including the majority of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent. Base rental revenues under these leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the applicable lease. Income on our straight-line revenue is recognized when collectibility is reasonably assured. In the event we determine that collectibility of straight-line revenue is not reasonably assured, we establish an allowance for estimated losses. Recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis results in recognized revenue exceeding cash amounts contractually due from our tenants during the first half of the term for leases that have straight-line treatment. The cumulative excess is included in other assets, net of allowances, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $54.5 million and $37.1 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Certain of our other leases, including the Kindred Master Leases, provide for an annual increase in rental payments only if certain revenue parameters or other contingencies are met. We recognize the increased rental revenue under these leases only if the revenue parameters or other contingencies are met rather than on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. We recognize income from rent, lease termination fees and other income when all of the following criteria are met in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") Staff Accounting Bulletin 104: (i) the agreement has been fully executed and delivered; (ii) services have been rendered; (iii) the amount is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.
 
Resident fees and services are recognized monthly as services are provided. Move-in fees, which are included in resident fees and services, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease agreement. Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days' notice.
Stock-Based Compensation
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123(R)"), which is a revision to SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"). SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB Opinion No. 25"). Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123, except that SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative under SFAS No. 123(R). We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. See "Note 11Stock-Based Compensation."
Gain on Sale of Assets
We recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits and classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when the collectibility of the sales price is reasonably assured, we are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the profit, we have received adequate initial investment from the buyer, and other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain recognition on sales of real estate under SFAS No. 66, "Accounting for Sales of Real Estate."
Federal Income Tax
Since we have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), prior to the second quarter of 2007 we made no provision for federal income tax purposes and we will continue to make no provision for REIT income and expense. As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, income tax expense or benefit is now being recorded with respect to certain entities which are taxed as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT provisions.
Deferred income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. An increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs.
Discontinued Operations
The results of operations and gain or loss on assets sold or held for sale are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Interest expense allocated to discontinued operations has been estimated based on a proportional allocation of rental income among all of our properties.
Foreign Currency
Certain of our subsidiaries' functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, whereas balance sheet accounts are translated using exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Resulting currency translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity, in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Transaction gains and losses are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
Segment Reporting
As of December 31, 2007, we operated through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. Our triple-net leased properties segment consists of financing, owning and leasing seniors housing and healthcare-related properties in the United States and leasing or subleasing those properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior living operations segment consists of investments in seniors housing communities located in the United States and Canada for which we engage Sunrise to manage the operations.
We acquired the senior living operations segment on April 26, 2007, pursuant to the purchase of the Sunrise REIT properties. With the addition of these properties, we believed segment differentiation would be appropriate based on the different economic and legal structures used to acquire and own those assets. Prior to the acquisition, we operated through one reportable segment  investment in real estate  which included the triple-net leased properties and our MOBs. Our MOB segment consists of leasing space primarily to physicians and other healthcare-related businesses and engaging third parties to manage those operations. Due to our limited operation of and allocation of capital to the MOBs, we separated them from the triple-net leased properties segment. However, the MOB segment is not individually reported and is included in "All Other" because it does not meet the quantitative thresholds of SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" at the current time. See "Note 19Segment Information."
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes when it is uncertain how an income or expense item should be treated on an income tax return. FIN 48 describes when and in what amount an uncertain tax item should be recorded in the financial statements and provides guidance on recording interest and penalties and accounting and reporting for income taxes in interim periods. We adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See "Note 12Income Taxes."
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." This statement defines fair value and provides guidance for measuring fair value and the necessary disclosures. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements, but rather applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. We adopted SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations." SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to measure the assets acquired, liabilities assumed (including contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair values on the acquisition date. The statement also requires that acquisition-related transaction costs be expensed as incurred and acquired research and development value be capitalized. In addition, acquisition-related restructuring costs are to be capitalized only if they meet certain criteria. SFAS No. 141(R) will be effective for us beginning on January 1, 2009. Early adoption is prohibited.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51." SFAS No. 160 requires the classification of noncontrolling interests (formerly, minority interests) as a component of consolidated equity. In addition, net income will include the total income of all consolidated subsidiaries with the attribution of earnings and other comprehensive income between controlling and noncontrolling interests reported as a separate disclosure on the face of the consolidated income statement. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. SFAS No. 160 also addresses accounting and reporting for a change in control of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 will be effective for us beginning on January 1, 2009. Early adoption is prohibited. This statement is required to be adopted prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which are required to be adopted retrospectively.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Note 3Revenues from Properties
Triple-Net Leased Properties
Approximately 30.8%, 51.6% and 59.8% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were derived from the four Kindred Master Leases.
 
On June 7, 2005, we completed the acquisition of Provident Senior Living Trust ("Provident") (see "Note 5Acquisitions"), which leased all of its properties to affiliates of Brookdale and Alterra. In September 2005, Brookdale was combined, through a series of mergers, with Alterra under a new holding company, Brookdale Senior Living. Approximately 15.7%, 28.6% and 22.9% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were derived from our lease agreements with Brookdale Senior Living.
Each of our leases with Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living is a triple-net lease pursuant to which the tenant is required to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repairs related to the properties. In addition, the tenants are required to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties.
Each of Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living is subject to the reporting requirements of the Commission and is required to file with the Commission annual reports containing audited financial information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. The information related to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from filings made by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living, as the case may be, with the Commission or other publicly available information, or has been provided to us by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living. We have not verified this information either through an independent investigation or by reviewing Kindred's or Brookdale Senior Living's public filings. We have no reason to believe that this information is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot assure you that all of this information is accurate. Kindred's and Brookdale Senior Living's filings with the Commission can be found at the Commission's website at www.sec.gov. We are providing this data for informational purposes only, and you are encouraged to obtain Kindred's and Brookdale Senior Living's publicly available filings from the Commission.
The properties leased to Kindred pursuant to the Kindred Master Leases are grouped into renewal bundles, with each bundle containing a varying number of diversified properties. All properties within a bundle have primary terms ranging from ten to 15 years, commencing May 1, 1998, and, provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to three five-year renewal terms.
Kindred Master Leases.
Under each Kindred Master Lease, the aggregate annual rent is referred to as Base Rent (as defined in the applicable Kindred Master Lease). Base Rent escalates on May 1 of each year at a specified rate over the Prior Period Base Rent (as defined in the applicable Kindred Master Lease) contingent upon the satisfaction of the specified facility revenue parameters. On October 6, 2006, final appraisers designated by us and Kindred specified that the market annual rent escalator is 2.7% under Kindred Master Leases 1, 3 and 4, and is based on year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index, with a floor of 2.25% and a ceiling of 4%, under Kindred Master Lease 2, in all cases contingent only upon satisfaction of the aforementioned revenue parameters.
On April 27, 2007, Kindred renewed, through April 30, 2013, its leases covering all 64 healthcare assets owned by us (seven of which we subsequently sold on June 30, 2007 (see "Note 6Dispositions")) whose base term would have expired on April 30, 2008. Kindred retains two additional sequential five-year renewal options for these assets.
. Our leases with Brookdale have primary terms of 15 years, commencing either January 28, 2004 (in the case of 15 "Grand Court" properties we acquired in early 2004) or October 19, 2004 (in the case of the properties we acquired in connection with the Provident acquisition), and, provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to two ten-year renewal terms. Our leases with Alterra also have primary terms of 15 years, commencing either October 20, 2004 or December 16, 2004 (both in the case of properties we acquired in connection with the Provident acquisition), and, provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to two five-year renewal terms.
Brookdale Senior Living Leases
Under the terms of the Brookdale leases assumed in connection with the Provident acquisition, Brookdale is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on January 1 of each year, by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year or (ii) 3%. Under the terms of the Brookdale leases with respect to the "Grand Court" properties, Brookdale is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on February 1 of each year, by an amount equal to the greater of (i) 2% or (ii) 75% of the increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year. Under the terms of the Alterra leases, Alterra is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates either on January 1 or November 1 of each year by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year or (ii) 2.5%. We recognize rent revenue under the Brookdale and Alterra leases on a straight-line basis. See "Note 13Commitments and Contingencies."
 
The future contracted minimum rentals, excluding contingent rent escalations, but with straight-line rents where applicable, for all of our triple-net leases are as follows (table has not been updated to reflect discontinued operations treatment for properties held for sale during the first three months of 2008):
 
Senior Living Operations
As a result of the acquisition of the Sunrise REIT properties, we are party to management agreements with Sunrise pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive accounting and property management services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing communities. Each management agreement has a term of 30 years from its effective date, the earliest of which began in 2004. Total revenues attributable to senior living operations managed by Sunrise were $283.1 million for the period from April 26, 2007 through December 31, 2007, representing 36.2% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Sunrise is subject to the reporting requirements of the Commission and is required to file with the Commission annual reports containing audited financial information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. According to public disclosures, Sunrise has not been timely filing such required reports and is currently experiencing certain legal, accounting and regulatory difficulties. On July 25, 2007, Sunrise announced that its board of directors had decided to explore strategic alternatives intended to enhance shareholder value, including a possible sale of Sunrise. We cannot predict what impact, if any, the outcomes of these uncertainties will have on Sunrise's financial condition or ability to manage our senior living operations. You are encouraged to obtain additional information related to Sunrise at the Commission's website at www.sec.gov.
Note 4Concentration of Credit Risk
As of December 31, 2007, approximately 39.7%, 22.0% and 14.9% of our properties, based on their original cost, were operated by Sunrise, Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred, respectively, and approximately 76.9% and 13.9% of our properties, based on their original cost, were seniors housing communities and skilled nursing facilities, respectively. Our remaining properties consist of hospitals, MOBs and other healthcare-related assets. These properties were located in 43 states, with properties in two states accounting for more than 10% of total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) during the year ended December 31, 2007, and two Canadian provinces. Properties in two states and one state accounted for more than 10% of total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Because we lease a substantial portion of our triple-net leased properties to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living and they are each a significant source of our total revenues, their financial condition and ability and willingness to satisfy their obligations under their respective leases and certain other agreements with us and their willingness to renew those leases upon expiration of the initial base terms thereof will significantly impact our revenues and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its obligations under its respective leases and other agreements with us, and any inability or unwillingness on its part to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and liquidity, on our ability to service our indebtedness and on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a "Material Adverse Effect"). We also cannot assure you that Kindred and/or Brookdale Senior Living will elect to renew their respective leases with us upon expiration of the initial base terms or any renewal terms thereof.
 
Although we have various rights as owner under the Sunrise management agreements, we are relying on Sunrise's personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We are also relying on Sunrise to set resident fees and otherwise operate those properties pursuant to our management agreements. A change in the senior management of Sunrise or any adverse developments in Sunrise's business and affairs or financial strength could also have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, any inability or unwillingness on the part of Sunrise to satisfy its obligations under the management agreements it has with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Note 5Acquisitions
The following is a summary of our more significant acquisitions in 2007, 2006 and 2005. The primary reason for these acquisitions was to invest in seniors housing and healthcare-related properties with an expected yield on investment, as well as to diversify our portfolio and revenue base and limit our dependence on any single operator, geography or asset type for our revenue.
Sunrise REIT Acquisition
On April 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of all of the assets of Sunrise REIT pursuant to the terms of a purchase agreement dated as of January 14, 2007, as amended, among us, our wholly owned subsidiaries, Ventas SSL Ontario I, Inc. (formerly 2124678 Ontario Inc., the "Securities Purchaser") and Ventas SSL Ontario II, Inc. (formerly 2124680 Ontario Inc., the "Asset Purchaser" and, together with the Securities Purchaser, the "Purchasers"), Sunrise REIT, Sunrise REIT Trust ("Sub Trust") and Sunrise REIT GP Inc. ("Sunrise GP"), in its capacity as general partner of Sunrise Canadian UPREIT, LP ("UPREIT"). The aggregate consideration for the Sunrise REIT acquisition, including the assumption of debt, was approximately $2.0 billion.
At the effective time of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, the Securities Purchaser purchased all of the interests and assumed all of the liabilities of Sunrise REIT Canadian Holdings Inc. ("Canco") and certain of Sunrise REIT's intercompany notes held by Sub Trust, and the Asset Purchaser acquired all of Sunrise REIT's remaining assets and liabilities from Sunrise REIT, Sub Trust and UPREIT. Immediately following the Sunrise REIT acquisition, each unit of beneficial interest of Sunrise REIT outstanding immediately prior to the effective time (except for a small number of non-tendered units) was redeemed for Cdn $16.50 in cash.
Through the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we acquired a 100% interest in 18 seniors housing communities and a 75% to 85% interest in 59 additional seniors housing communities, with the minority interest in those 59 communities being owned by affiliates of Sunrise. Of the 77 communities, 66 are located in metropolitan areas of 19 U.S. states and eleven are located in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia.
As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we are party to management agreements with Sunrise pursuant to which Sunrise provides comprehensive accounting and property management services with respect to each of the Sunrise REIT properties. Each management agreement has a term of 30 years from its effective date, the earliest of which began in 2004. Pursuant to the management agreements, we pay Sunrise a base management fee of 6% of resident fees and similar revenues, subject to reduction based on below target performance for a pool of properties. The minimum management fee assessable under these agreements is 5% of resident fees and similar revenues of the properties. We also pay incentive fees if a pool of properties exceeds aggregate performance targets; provided, however, that total management fees, including incentive fees, shall not exceed 8% of resident fees and similar revenues. The management agreements also specify that we (or the joint venture to which we are party, as applicable) will reimburse Sunrise for direct or indirect costs necessary to manage our seniors housing communities.
Under the terms of the letter agreement dated January 14, 2007 (the " Letter Agreement") between us and Sunrise, we modified various management and other agreements and contractual relationships that existed between Sunrise, on the one hand, and Sunrise REIT, on the other hand (the "Existing Agreements"). Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, the Strategic Alliance Agreement dated as of December 23, 2004 between Sunrise and Sunrise REIT was terminated effective upon the closing of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, except with respect to certain limited provisions. Under the terms of the Letter Agreement, we have, among other things, a right of first offer to acquire seniors housing communities developed by Sunrise in Canada. In addition, we have a right of first offer to acquire seniors housing communities developed by Sunrise in the United States within a demographically defined radius of any of the properties acquired by us in the Sunrise REIT acquisition. The terms of the rights of first offer for properties in both the United States and Canada are governed generally by the terms set forth in the Strategic Alliance Agreement and the fixed price acquisition agreement referred to in the Strategic Alliance Agreement, but subject to modification of those terms to address changes in circumstances and other matters.
 
The Letter Agreement also (1) provides us assurances that Sunrise will cooperate with us in connection with our compliance with the REIT rules under the Code, and in connection with our financial reporting obligations, (2) contains restrictions on our rights to transfer our interest in the acquired properties to transferees who compete with Sunrise or who do not meet certain requirements, and (3) provides that Sunrise consents to the Sunrise REIT acquisition and waives certain rights under the Existing Agreements. Although not required, we and Sunrise may enter into various amendments to the Existing Agreements to further address the matters set out in the Letter Agreement.
As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we assumed all rights and obligations of Sunrise REIT under two fixed price acquisition agreements with Sunrise. Under the terms of these fixed price acquisition agreements, funds were advanced prior to the Sunrise REIT acquisition to Sunrise in connection with the development by Sunrise of seniors housing communities in Staten Island, New York and Vaughan, Ontario. The fixed price acquisition agreements granted to us an option to purchase a majority interest in each of these properties, independently, for a fixed price and on fixed terms, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. The funds advanced for a property under the fixed price acquisition agreements are advances on the fixed purchase price for the property and are applied to our purchase price for our interest at the closing of the acquisition.
We funded the Sunrise REIT acquisition through $530.0 million of borrowings under a senior interim loan, an equity-backed facility providing for the issuance of 700,000 shares of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, and the assumption of $861.1 million of existing mortgage debt. In May 2007, we completed the sale of 26,910,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our shelf registration statement. We received $1.05 billion in net proceeds from the sale, which we used along with the proceeds of the disposition of certain of our Kindred assets (see "Note 6Dispositions") and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility to redeem all of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock and to repay our indebtedness under the senior interim loan.
For the year ended December 31, 2007, we expensed $5.2 million of preferred stock dividends and issuance costs related to the Series A Senior Preferred Stock and $5.0 million of fees and interest associated with the senior interim loan (the latter of which is included in interest expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007).
On June 19, 2007, we acquired an 80% interest in the seniors housing community located in Staten Island, New York in accordance with the terms of the applicable fixed price acquisition agreement for approximately $25.5 million, inclusive of our share of assumed debt of $15.3 million.
On December 11, 2007, we acquired an 80% interest in the seniors housing community located in Vaughan, Ontario in accordance with the terms of the applicable fixed price acquisition agreement for approximately Cdn $43.6 million, inclusive of our share of assumed construction debt of Cdn $23.3 million. The joint venture has the ability to borrow an additional Cdn $11.7 million under the existing construction loan for capital improvements.
We incurred $3.0 million of merger-related expenses (that were not capitalized) in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition during the year ended December 31, 2007. Merger-related expenses include incremental costs directly related to the acquisition and expenses relating to our lawsuit against HCP, Inc ("HCP").
Other 2007 Acquisitions
During 2007, we acquired two seniors housing communities for an aggregate purchase price of $18.5 million, inclusive of assumed debt of $9.0 million at the time of the acquisition. The purchase price was allocated between land and buildings and improvements of $0.7 million and $17.8 million, respectively, based upon their estimated fair values. These properties are being leased to affiliates of Senior Care, Inc. ("Senior Care").
Also throughout 2007, we acquired eight MOBs, in seven separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of $150.5 million, inclusive of assumed debt of $21.5 million at the time of the acquisitions. The purchase price was allocated between land and buildings and improvements of $7.6 million and $142.9 million, respectively, based upon their estimated fair values. Seven of these MOBs are owned through joint ventures with three different partners that provide management and leasing services for the properties. The joint venture partners have a minority interest ranging from less than 1% to less than 9%.
Senior Care
In November 2006, we completed the acquisition of 64 seniors housing and healthcare-related properties for an aggregate consideration of $602.4 million, consisting of approximately $422.6 million in cash, the assumption of $114.8 million of mortgage debt that was repaid in January 2007 and 1,708,279 shares of our common stock. The portfolio consists of 40 assisted living communities, four multi-level retirement communities, 18 skilled nursing facilities and two rehabilitation hospitals in 15 states.
 
The properties are being leased to affiliates of Senior Care, pursuant to the terms of a triple-net master lease having an initial term of 15 years and two five-year extensions. Approximately 6.1% and 1.6% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were derived from our lease agreements with Senior Care.
Other 2006 Acquisitions
Also during 2006, we acquired eight seniors housing communities, in five separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of $74.3 million, including assumed debt of $10.8 million at the time of the acquisitions. The seniors housing communities are leased to various operators under triple-net leases, each having initial terms ranging from ten to 15 years and initially providing aggregate, annual cash base rent of approximately $6.2 million, subject to escalation as provided in the leases.
Provident
On June 7, 2005, we completed the acquisition of Provident in a transaction valued at approximately $1.2 billion. Provident was formed as a Maryland real estate investment trust in March 2004 and owned seniors housing properties located in the United States. Pursuant to the Provident acquisition, we acquired 68 independent and assisted living communities in 19 states comprised of approximately 6,819 residential living units, all of which are leased to affiliates of Brookdale and Alterra pursuant to triple-net leases with renewal options. Approximately 13.6%, 24.7% and 17.8% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were derived from our lease agreements related to the Provident properties.
We funded the cash portion of the purchase price for the Provident acquisition, which was approximately $231.0 million, and repaid all outstanding borrowings under Provident's credit facility at closing from a combination of net proceeds from the sale of $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued by Ventas Realty and a wholly owned subsidiary, Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Issuers"), and borrowings under our previous secured revolving credit facility. Additionally, we issued approximately 15.0 million shares of our common stock and share equivalents to Provident equity holders as part of the purchase price for the Provident acquisition. We also assumed approximately $459.4 million of property-level mortgage debt.
Other 2005 Acquisitions
Also during 2005, we acquired 23 seniors housing communities, an adjacent parcel of land and one hospital for an aggregate purchase price of $278.2 million, including assumed debt of $74.4 million at the time of the acquisitions. The seniors housing communities and the hospital are leased to various operators under triple-net leases, each having initial terms ranging from ten to 15 years and initially providing aggregate, annual cash base rent of approximately $23.9 million, subject to escalation as provided in the leases.
In addition, we acquired three MOBs in 2005 for an aggregate purchase price of $13.0 million, including assumed debt of $7.3 million at the time of the acquisitions. These buildings are leased to various tenants under leases having various remaining terms and initially providing aggregate, annual cash base rent of approximately $1.7 million, subject to escalation as provided in the leases. We have engaged third parties to manage the operations of the MOBs.
 
Estimated Fair Value
The transactions completed during the year ended December 31, 2007 were accounted for under the purchase method. The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. Such estimates are subject to refinement as additional valuation information is received.
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if we had consummated our 2007 and 2006 acquisitions and issuances of common stock as of the beginning of each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006:
 
Note 6Dispositions
Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," we present separately, as discontinued operations, in all periods the results of operations for all assets held for sale or disposed of on or after January 1, 2002. Results are reflective of assets held for sale or disposed of through March 31, 2008.
In February 2008, we entered into a purchase and sale agreement with a third party to sell seven properties and classified these properties as held for sale. In April 2008, we completed the sale of the seven properties for approximately $68 million. We expect to recognize a gain from the sale of these assets of approximately $24 million in the second quarter of 2008. On June 30, 2007, we completed the sale of 22 properties to Kindred for $171.5 million in net cash proceeds. Of these net proceeds, $14.1 million was held in escrow for use in a Code Section 1031 exchange, of which all was utilized during the year ended December 31, 2007 for other acquisitions. See "Note 5Acquisitions." In addition, Kindred paid us a lease termination fee of $3.5 million. We recognized a net gain on the sale of assets of $129.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. We did not make any dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2006. In 2005, we completed the sale of one seniors housing community for approximately $9.9 million in net cash proceeds and recognized a net gain on the sale of assets of approximately $5.1 million. In addition, the tenant paid us a lease termination fee of approximately $0.2 million. These net proceeds were held in escrow for use in a Code Section 1031 exchange at December 31, 2005 and released back to us during 2006, as no like-kind exchange was consummated.
 
The components of discontinued operations are outlined below and include the results of operations for the respective periods that we owned such assets during each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
For the properties held for sale during the first three months of 2008, the investment in real estate, net of accumulated depreciation, at December 31, 2007 was $42.1 million.
Note 7Intangibles
At December 31, 2007, intangible lease assets, comprised of above market resident leases, in-place resident leases and other intangibles, were $7.3 million, $81.2 million and $2.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007, the accumulated amortization of the intangible assets was $58.4 million. The weighted average amortization period of intangible assets is approximately one year.
At December 31, 2007, intangible lease liabilities, comprised of below market resident leases, were $9.8 million. At December 31, 2007, the accumulated amortization of the intangible liabilities was $6.6 million. The weighted average amortization period of intangible liabilities is approximately one year.
Note 8Loans Receivable
As of December 31, 2007, we held three first mortgage loans in an aggregate amount of $20.1 million. Our first mortgage loans have a 1% exit fee that was received at the date of issuance and is being deferred and amortized over the term of the loan. The aggregate unamortized balance of these deferred fees as of December 31, 2007 was $0.1 million.
During 2005, we extended three first mortgage loans in the aggregate principal amount of $25.9 million. The loans accrue interest at a rate of 9% per annum and provide for monthly amortization of principal with balloon payment maturity dates in 2010. Each loan is guaranteed by an affiliate of the borrower and its two principals. Only two of these loans were outstanding as of December 31, 2007.
Also during 2005, we invested in a portfolio of eight distressed mortgage loans with eight separate borrowers for an aggregate purchase price of $21.4 million. As of December 31, 2005, our investment in the portfolio was satisfied by the buy-out of the applicable distressed mortgage loans in an amount equal to our investment in these loans. In conjunction with these buy-outs, we extended three first mortgage loans in an aggregate principal amount of $10.5 million. These first mortgage loans also accrue interest at a rate of 9% per annum and provide for monthly amortization of principal with balloon payment maturity dates in 2010. These three first mortgage loans are also guaranteed by a third party and its two principals. Only one of these loans was outstanding as of December 31, 2007.
 
Note 9Borrowing Arrangements
The following is a summary of our long-term debt and certain interest rate and maturity information as of December 31, 2007 and 2006:
 
Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility
In April 2006, we entered into a $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility which replaced our previous $300.0 million secured revolving credit facility. Our unsecured revolving credit facility matures in 2009, with an option to extend for one year subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, and originally contained a $100.0 million "accordion feature" that permitted us to increase our total borrowing capacity to $600.0 million. On March 30, 2007, we accessed the accordion feature and increased the borrowing capacity from $500.0 million to $600.0 million. On July 27, 2007, we amended our unsecured revolving credit facility to include a $150.0 million accordion feature that permits us to expand our borrowing capacity to a total of $750.0 million upon satisfaction of certain conditions. Pricing under the unsecured revolving credit facility remained the same and we did not record any material expenses or charges in connection with the amendment.
Generally, borrowings outstanding under the unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a fluctuating LIBOR-based rate per annum plus an applicable percentage based on our consolidated leverage. As of December 31, 2007, the applicable percentage was 0.75%. Our previous secured revolving credit facility also bore interest at a fluctuating LIBOR-based rate per annum plus an applicable percentage. The applicable percentage for the previous secured revolving credit facility was 1.45% from January 1, 2006 until its replacement in April 2006.
We incurred losses on extinguishment of debt in the amount of $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, representing the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs related to the previous secured revolving credit facility and our commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS") loan, respectively.
Canadian Credit Facility
On August 24, 2007, we entered into a Cdn $90.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Canadian credit facility"). Generally, borrowings outstanding under the Canadian credit facility bear interest at a fluctuating "Bankers' Acceptance" rate per annum plus an applicable percentage based on our consolidated leverage. As of December 31, 2007, the applicable percentage was 0.75%.
On January 24, 2008, we amended the Canadian credit facility to expand our borrowing capacity to a total of Cdn $105.0 million. We also extended the original maturity date from February 24, 2008 to May 24, 2008. We may further extend the maturity date for an additional three months subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.
 
Convertible Senior Notes
In December 2006, we completed the offering of $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3
 7
/
8
 
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "Convertible Notes"). The Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holder (i) prior to September 15, 2011, upon the occurrence of specified events and (ii) on or after September 11, 2011, at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to the stated maturity, in each case into cash up to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and cash or shares of our common stock, at our election, in respect of any conversion value in excess of the principal amount at an initial conversion rate of 22.1867 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which equates to an initial conversion price of approximately $45.07 per share). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of a quarterly dividend in excess of $0.395 per share. As of December 31, 2007, the adjusted conversion rate was 22.3615 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which equates to a conversion price of approximately $44.72 per share). To the extent the market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, our earnings per share will be diluted. There was no dilutive impact per share for the year ended December 31, 2007.
The Convertible Notes are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by Ventas Realty and by certain of our other direct and indirect subsidiaries as described in the indenture. The Convertible Notes are part of our and the guarantors' general unsecured obligations, ranking equal in right of payment with all of our and the guarantors' existing and future senior obligations and ranking senior to all of our and the guarantors' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, the Convertible Notes are effectively subordinated to our and the guarantors' secured indebtedness, if any, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The Convertible Notes are also structurally subordinated to preferred equity and indebtedness, whether secured or unsecured, of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Convertible Notes.
We may not redeem the Convertible Notes prior to maturity except to the extent necessary to preserve our status as a REIT.
If we experience certain kinds of changes of control, holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Convertible Notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase.
Senior Notes
In September 2006, we completed the offering of $225.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Senior Notes") of Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Issuers") at a
 5
/
8
% discount to par value.
In December 2005, we completed the offerings of $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Senior Notes") of the Issuers at a
 1
/
2
% discount to par value.
In June 2005, we completed the offering of $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2010 (the "2010 Senior Notes") of the Issuers, and $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7
 1
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Senior Notes") of the Issuers. On August 3, 2007, we purchased $5.0 million principal amount of 2015 Senior Notes in an open market transaction. As a result of the purchase, we reported a gain on extinguishment of debt of $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2007.
In June 2005, we also completed the offering of $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Senior Notes") of the Issuers, which was in addition to the $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2014 Senior Notes originally issued in October 2004. The additional $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Senior Notes was issued at a 1% discount to par value. The additional $50.0 million aggregate principal amount and the original $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Senior Notes are governed by the same indenture.
In April 2002, we completed the offering of $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8
 3
/
4
% Senior Notes due 2009 (the "2009 Senior Notes") of the Issuers, and $225.0 million aggregate principal amount of 9% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "2012 Senior Notes") of the Issuers. In December 2002, we purchased $0.8 million principal amount of 2009 Senior Notes and $33.2 million principal amount of 2012 Senior Notes in open market transactions.
The 2017 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes, 2010 Senior Notes, 2015 Senior Notes, 2014 Senior Notes, 2009 Senior Notes, and 2012 Senior Notes (collectively, the "Senior Notes") are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by us and by certain of our current and future subsidiaries as described in their respective indentures (collectively, the "Guarantors"). The Senior Notes are part of our and the Guarantors' general unsecured obligations, ranking equal in right of payment with all of our and the Guarantors' existing and future senior obligations and ranking senior to all of our and the Guarantors' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, the Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to our and the Guarantors' secured indebtedness, if any, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The Senior Notes are also structurally subordinated to the preferred equity and indebtedness, whether secured or unsecured, of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Senior Notes.
 
The Issuers may redeem the 2017 Senior Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, (i) prior to April 1, 2012 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus a make-whole premium as described in the applicable indenture and (ii) on or after April 1, 2012 at varying redemption prices set forth in the applicable indenture, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to April 1, 2010, the Issuers may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2017 Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds from certain equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 106.750% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
The Issuers may redeem the 2016 Senior Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, (i) prior to June 1, 2011 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus a make-whole premium as described in the applicable indenture and (ii) on or after June 1, 2011 at varying redemption prices set forth in the applicable indenture, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to June 1, 2009, the Issuers may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds from certain equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 106.500% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
The Issuers may redeem the 2010 Senior Notes and the 2015 Senior Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, prior to June 1, 2010 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date and a make-whole premium as described in the applicable indenture. The Issuers may also redeem the 2015 Senior Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, on or after June 1, 2010 at varying redemption prices set forth in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to June 1, 2008, the Issuers may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of either or both of the 2010 Senior Notes and 2015 Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds from certain equity offerings at redemption prices equal to 106.750% and 107.125%, respectively, of the principal amount thereof, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
The Issuers may redeem the 2014 Senior Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, (i) prior to October 15, 2009 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus a make-whole premium as described in the applicable indenture and (ii) on or after October 15, 2009 at varying redemption prices set forth in the applicable indenture, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
The Issuers may redeem the 2009 Senior Notes and the 2012 Senior Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date and a make-whole premium as described in the applicable indenture.
If we experience certain kinds of changes of control, the Issuers must make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase; provided, however, that in the event Moody's and S&P have confirmed their ratings at Ba3 or higher and BB- or higher on the Senior Notes and certain other conditions are met, this repurchase obligation will not apply.
Mortgages
At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding 121 mortgage loans totaling $1.57 billion that are collateralized by the underlying assets of the properties. Outstanding principal balances on these loans ranged from $0.4 million to $59.4 million as of December 31, 2007. The loans generally bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 5.4% to 8.5% per annum, except for 15 loans with outstanding principal balances ranging from $0.4 million to $32.0 million, which bear interest at the lender's variable rates ranging from 3.4% to 7.3% per annum as of December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, the weighted average annual rate on fixed rate debt was 6.5% and the weighted average annual rate on the variable rate debt was 6.1%. The loans had a weighted average maturity of 7.0 years as of December 31, 2007. Sunrise's portion of total debt was $157.1 million as of December 31, 2007.
 
Scheduled Maturities of Borrowing Arrangements and Other Provisions
As of December 31, 2007, our indebtedness had the following maturities (in thousands):
 
Certain provisions of our long-term debt contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: (i) incur debt; (ii) make certain dividends, distributions and investments; (iii) enter into certain transactions; (iv) merge, consolidate or transfer certain assets; and (v) sell assets. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also required to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of this group's unsecured debt.
Derivatives and Hedging
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to the effect of interest rate movements on future cash flows under our variable rate debt agreements and the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We limit these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivative instruments.
For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used primarily to fix the rate on debt based on floating-rate indices and to manage the cost of borrowing obligations. We currently have an interest rate swap to manage interest rate risk (the "Swap"). We prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Further, we have a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivative is designed to hedge, we do not anticipate any material adverse effect on our net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
In 2001, we entered into the Swap in the original notional amount of $450.0 million to hedge floating-rate debt for the period between July 1, 2003 and June 30, 2008, under which we pay a fixed rate of 5.385% and receive LIBOR from the counterparty to the agreement. The Swap is treated as a cash flow hedge. In 2003 and 2005, due to our lower expected future variable rate debt balances, we reduced the notional amount of the Swap to $330.0 million and then to $100.0 million for its remaining term in exchange for payments from us of approximately $8.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively. The $2.3 million partial swap breakage cost and $3.3 million of the deferred gain were recognized as a net gain of $1.0 million in our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Amortization of the deferred gain from the termination of a swap arrangement was included in accumulated other comprehensive income in the amount of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2007, this amount was fully amortized.
Unrealized gains and losses on the Swap are recorded as other comprehensive income. The amounts reclassified into interest expense due to the Swap for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $0.5 million, $0.3 million and $6.9 million, respectively. No amount was reflected as interest expense due to ineffectiveness of the Swap for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as our variable rate debt balances approximated the $100.0 million notional amount of the Swap.
There are no collateral requirements under the Swap. Although we are exposed to credit loss in the event of the non-performance by the counterparty to the Swap, we do not anticipate any such non-performance. The notional amount of the Swap at December 31, 2007 was $100.0 million, which is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2008.
At December 31, 2007, the Swap was reported at its fair value of $0.5 million and is included in other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The offsetting entry is reported as a deferred loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss.
 
In January 2007, we entered into two Canadian call options in conjunction with our agreement to acquire the assets of Sunrise REIT. See "Note 5Acquisitions." We paid an aggregate purchase price of $8.5 million for these contracts, which had an aggregate notional call amount of Cdn $750.0 million at a Cdn $1.18 strike price. These contracts were settled on April 26, 2007, the acquisition date, and we received cash of $33.2 million upon settlement. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized gains related to call option contracts of $24.3 million, which is included as a foreign currency gain on our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Unamortized Fair Value Adjustment
The fair value adjustment related to the long-term debt we assumed in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition was $22.2 million and is recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instruments. The estimated aggregate amortization of the fair value adjustment related to long-term debt for each of the five succeeding years follows: 2008  $4.3 million; 2009  $3.3 million; 2010  $2.9 million; 2011  $2.9 million; and 2012  $2.4 million.
Note 10Fair Values of Financial Instruments
As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the carrying amounts and fair values of our financial instruments were as follows:
 
Fair value estimates are subjective in nature and depend on a number of important assumptions, including estimates of future cash flows, risks, discount rates and relevant comparable market information associated with each financial instrument. The use of different market assumptions and estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the reported estimated fair value amounts. Accordingly, the estimates presented above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts we would realize in a current market exchange.
Note 11Stock-Based Compensation
Compensation Plans
We have six plans under which options to purchase common stock and/or shares or units of restricted stock have been, or may be, granted to officers, employees and non-employee directors, one plan under which executive officers may receive common stock in lieu of compensation and two plans under which certain directors have received or may receive common stock in lieu of director fees (the following are collectively referred to as the "Plans"): (1) the 1987 Incentive Compensation Program (Employee Plan); (2) the 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan (Employee Plan); (3) the 2004 Stock Plan for Directors; (4) the TheraTx, Incorporated 1996 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan; (5) the Common Stock Purchase Plan for Directors (the "Directors Stock Purchase Plan"); (6) the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; (7) the Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; (8) the 2006 Incentive Plan; and (9) the 2006 Stock Plan for Directors.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, option and restricted stock grants and stock issuances could only be made under the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the Directors Stock Purchase Plan, the Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the 2006 Incentive Plan and the 2006 Stock Plan for Directors. The 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan (Employee Plan) and the 2004 Stock Plan for Directors expired on December 31, 2006, and no additional grants were permitted under those plans after that date. Additional grants are also not permitted under the 1987 Incentive Compensation Program (Employee Plan) or the TheraTx, Incorporated 1996 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan. In addition, the Directors Stock Purchase Plan terminated in accordance with its terms during 2007.
The number of shares reserved and the number of shares available for future grants or issuance under these plans as of December 31, 2007 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Under the Plans (other than the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the Directors Stock Purchase Plan and the Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan), options are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant, expire ten years from the date of grant, and vest over varying periods ranging from one to four years. Vesting of certain options may accelerate upon a change of control of Ventas, as defined in the applicable Plan, and other events.
We have also granted options and restricted stock to certain officers, employees and non-employee directors outside of the Plans. These options and shares of restricted stock vest over varying periods, and the options are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant and expire ten years from the date of grant. As of December 31, 2007, options for 38,000 shares had been granted outside of the Plans to certain employees and non-employee directors and remained outstanding.
Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for the Plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, as permitted by SFAS No. 123. Consequently, no stock-based compensation cost relating to stock options was recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Income for any period prior to 2006, as all options granted under the Plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value provisions for share-based awards pursuant to SFAS No. 123(R), using the modified-prospective transition method. Under that transition method, compensation cost recognized in 2006 includes: (i) compensation cost for all share-based awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the attribution method and grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and (ii) compensation cost for all share-based awards granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value as estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), all recognized on a straight-line basis as the requisite service periods are rendered. Results for prior periods have not been restated. Compensation costs related to stock options for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $1.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006 caused our net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 to be approximately $931,000 lower than if we had continued to account for stock-based compensation under APB Opinion No. 25. The adoption caused basic and diluted earnings per share to be $0.01 lower for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2005, as if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) to all stock-based compensation granted under equity award plans for awards granted prior to January 1, 2006 (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
Stock Options
In determining the estimated fair value of our stock options as of the date of grant, we used the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:
 
 
The following is a summary of stock option activity in 2007:
 
A summary of stock options outstanding at December 31, 2007 follows:
 
A summary of the status of our nonvested stock options as of December 31, 2007 and changes during the year then ended follows:
 
As of December 31, 2007, there was $440,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options granted under the Plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.2 years. Proceeds received from options exercised under the Plans for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $9.8 million, $6.6 million and $6.8 million, respectively.
Restricted Stock
The market value of shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units on the date of the award is recognized as stock-based compensation expense over the service period, with charges to general and administrative expenses of approximately $5.6 million in 2007, $2.1 million in 2006 and $2.0 million in 2005. Restricted stock generally vests over three- to five-year periods. The vesting of certain restricted shares may accelerate upon a change of control of Ventas, as defined in the applicable Plan, and other events. As required upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the contra equity balance in unearned compensation on restricted stock of approximately $713,000 as of January 1, 2006 was reclassified (i.e. netted against capital in excess of par value) in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006.
 
A summary of the status of our nonvested restricted stock units and restricted stock as of December 31, 2007, and changes during the year ended December 31, 2007 follows:
 
As of December 31, 2007, there was $11,453,000 unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock under the Plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average of 2.0 years.
Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan
During 2005, we implemented the Ventas Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") under which our employees and directors may purchase shares of our common stock at a discount. Pursuant to the terms of the ESPP, on each purchase date, participants may purchase shares of common stock at a price not less than 90% of the market price on that date, with respect to the employee tax-favored portion of the plan, and not less than 95% of the market price on that date, with respect to the additional employee and director portion of the plan. We have reserved 2,500,000 shares for issuance under the ESPP. As of December 31, 2007, 18,762 shares had been purchased under the ESPP and 2,481,238 shares were available for future issuance.
Employee Benefit Plan
We maintain a 401(K) plan that allows for eligible employees to defer compensation subject to certain limitations imposed by the Code. We make a contribution for each qualifying employee of up to 3% of his or her salary, subject to limitations, regardless of the employee's individual contribution. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, our contributions were approximately $106,000, $85,600 and $78,000, respectively.
Note 12Income Taxes
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code commencing with the year ended December 31, 1999. We also have subsidiaries which we have elected to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRS" or "TRS entities"), which are subject to federal and state income taxes. The TRS entities were created or acquired in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition. All other entities are collectively referred to as "the REIT" within this Note 12.
We intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to enable us to qualify as a REIT. Our actual qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet, on a continuing basis, distribution levels, stock ownership, and the various qualification tests. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our tax treatment of distributions per common share was as follows:
 
 
No net provision for income taxes was recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 due to our belief that we qualified as a REIT and the distribution of more than 100% of our 2006 and 2005 taxable income as a dividend. We believe we have met the annual distribution requirement by payment of at least 90% of our estimated taxable income for 2007, 2006 and 2005. As a result of the TRS entities created and acquired in 2007, the consolidated provision (benefit) for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007 is as follows (in thousands):
 
The deferred benefit for the year ended December 31, 2007 is reduced by income tax expense of $1.1 million related to the minority interest share of net income. Although a substantial portion of the deferred tax benefit is due to the reversal of the deferred tax liability established as a result of the step-up in basis pursuant to purchase accounting, the deferred tax benefit is dependent in part upon generating sufficient taxable income in future periods.
Although the TRS entities did not pay any federal income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007, federal income tax payments for these TRS entities may increase in future years as we exhaust net operating loss carryforwards and as additional seniors housing communities are developed and occupied. Such increases could be significant.
Income tax expense computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 is reconciled to the income tax benefit as follows (in thousands):
 
The REIT made no income tax payments for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Tax payments of $2.1 million related to built-in gains income tax were made for the year ended December 31, 2007.
As part of the acquisition of Sunrise REIT, we established a beginning net deferred tax liability of $306.3 million related to temporary differences (primarily property and related assets net of net operating loss carryforwards).
Each TRS is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards included in the net deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
Due to the uncertainty of the realization of certain tax assets, we established valuation allowances. The majority of the valuation allowances related to the outside tax basis of partnership interests where there was uncertainty regarding their realization.
 
The net difference between tax bases and the reported amount of REIT assets and liabilities for federal income tax purposes was approximately $485.1 million and $446.4 million less than the book bases of those assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
We potentially remain subject to corporate level taxes for any asset dispositions during the ten-year period immediately after the assets were owned by a C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, through stock acquisition or merger) ("built-in gains tax"). The amount of income potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of (i) the excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset or (ii) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all future gains could be offset by available net operating losses ("NOLs"). We had a $23.3 million and a $30.4 million deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, to be utilized for any built-in gain tax related to the disposition of assets owned prior to our REIT election in 1999. The ten-year period in which these assets are subject to built-in gains tax will end on December 31, 2008. Accordingly, any remaining deferred tax liability related to the built-in gains tax will be reversed at December 31, 2008.
Generally, we are subject to audit under the statute of limitations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for the year ended December 31, 2004 and subsequent years and are subject to audit by state taxing authorities for the year ended December 31, 2003 and subsequent years. In Canada, the 2004 through 2007 tax years generally remain subject to examination for certain entities we acquired as part of the Sunrise REIT acquisition.
During 2006, we were notified by the IRS that it had completed its audit of our 2001 federal tax return with no additional tax being due. Accordingly, we reversed into income a previously recorded $1.8 million tax liability related to uncertainties surrounding the outcome of this audit.
We have a combined NOL carryforward of $66.5 million at December 31, 2007 related to the TRS entities and an NOL carryforward reported by the REIT of $88.6 million. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if audits of any prior year's return determine that amounts are owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for dividends paid. The NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2024 with respect to the TRS entities and in 2018 for the REIT.
As a result of the uncertainties relating to the ultimate utilization of existing REIT NOLs, no net deferred tax benefit has been ascribed to REIT NOL carryforwards as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The IRS may challenge our entitlement to these tax attributes during its review of the tax returns for the previous tax years. We believe we are entitled to these tax attributes, but we cannot assure you as to the outcome of these matters.
On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48. As a result of applying the provisions of FIN 48, we recognized no change in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and no adjustment in accumulated earnings as of January 1, 2007. Our policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.
The following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits (in thousands):
 
Included in the unrecognized tax benefits of $9.4 million at December 31, 2007 was $9.4 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We accrued no potential penalties and interest related to the unrecognized tax benefits during 2007, and in total, as of December 31, 2007, we have recorded no liability for potential penalties and interest. We expect our unrecognized tax benefits to increase by $2.7 million during 2008.
Note 13Commitments and Contingencies
Assumption of Certain Operating Liabilities and Litigation
As a result of the structure of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we may be subject to various liabilities of Sunrise REIT arising out of the ownership or operation of the Sunrise REIT properties prior to the acquisition. If the liabilities we have assumed are greater than expected, or if there are obligations relating to the Sunrise REIT properties of which we were not aware at the time of completion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, such liabilities and/or obligations could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
 
In connection with our spin off of Kindred in 1998, Kindred agreed, among other things, to assume all liabilities and to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against certain losses, claims and litigation arising out of the ownership or operation of the healthcare operations or any of the assets transferred to Kindred in the spin off, including without limitation all claims arising out of the third-party leases and third-party guarantees assigned to and assumed by Kindred at the time of the spin off. Under Kindred's plan of reorganization, Kindred assumed and agreed to fulfill these obligations. The total aggregate remaining minimum rental payments under the third-party leases was approximately $16.0 million as of December 31, 2007, and we believe that we had no material exposure under the third-party guarantees.
Similarly, in connection with Provident's acquisition of certain Brookdale-related and Alterra-related entities in 2005 and our subsequent acquisition of Provident, Brookdale and Alterra agreed, among other things, to indemnify and hold Provident (and, as a result of the Provident acquisition, us) harmless from and against certain liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of such entities prior to their acquisition by Provident.
We cannot give any assurances that Kindred or such Brookdale Senior Living subsidiaries will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy, or that they will be willing to satisfy, their respective obligations under these arrangements. If Kindred or such Brookdale Senior Living subsidiaries do not satisfy or otherwise honor their respective obligations to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless under their respective contractual arrangements with us, then we may be liable for the payment and performance of such obligations and may have to assume the defense of such claims or litigation, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Brookdale Leases
Subject to certain limitations and restrictions, if during the first six years of the initial term of our Brookdale leases assumed in connection with the Provident acquisition we, either voluntarily or at Brookdale's request, obtain new mortgage debt or refinance existing mortgage debt on property covered by a Brookdale lease, then we may be required to pay Brookdale the net proceeds from any such mortgage debt financing or refinancing. Also, subject to certain limitations and conditions, Brookdale may request that we obtain new mortgage debt or refinance existing mortgage debt on the property covered by the Brookdale leases, and we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to pursue any such financing or refinancing from the holder of the then existing mortgage debt on the applicable Brookdale property. In connection with any such financing or refinancing, the rent for the applicable Brookdale property will be increased using a recomputed lease basis increased by an amount equal to the net financed proceeds paid to Brookdale plus (with limited exceptions) any fees, penalties, premiums or other costs related to such financing or refinancing. If the monthly debt service on any financed or refinanced proceeds paid to Brookdale exceeds the rent increase attributable to those financed or refinanced proceeds, then Brookdale is required to pay the excess. In addition, under certain circumstances, Brookdale will also be required to pay additional amounts relating to increases in debt service and other costs relating to any such financing or refinancing.
 
Note 14Earnings Per Share
The following table shows the amounts used in computing basic and diluted earnings per common share:
 
There were no anti-dilutive options outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.
Note 15Litigation
Legal Proceedings Defended and Indemnified by Third Parties
Kindred, Brookdale, Alterra, Sunrise and our other tenants, operators and managers are parties to certain legal actions and regulatory investigations arising in the normal course of their business. In certain cases, the tenant, operator or manager, as applicable, has agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless against these actions and investigations. We cannot give any assurance that the resolution of any litigation or investigations, either individually or in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on Kindred's, Brookdale's, Alterra's, Sunrise's or such other tenants', operators' and managers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which in turn could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
 
Litigation Related to the Sunrise REIT Acquisition
On February 14, 2007, HCP submitted the first of a series of conditional proposals to acquire the assets of Sunrise REIT at a price per unit of Cdn $18.00 in cash, conditioned upon HCP entering into an agreement with Sunrise to modify certain of the contracts between Sunrise and Sunrise REIT. In connection with those proposals from HCP, we, as well as Sunrise REIT, Sunrise and HCP, sought legal interpretations in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice concerning various agreements pertaining to the acquisition of Sunrise REIT.
On February 21, 2007, we filed an application in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Commercial List), Court File No. 07-CL-6893, seeking, among other things, a declaration from the Court that Sunrise REIT was obligated, pursuant to its purchase agreement dated as of January 14, 2007 (the "Purchase Agreement") with us, to enforce the standstill terms of the agreement dated November 8, 2006 between Sunrise REIT and HCP (the "Standstill Agreement"). On March 6, 2007, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice released a ruling, declaring that Sunrise REIT was obligated to comply with its covenants in the Purchase Agreement to enforce the Standstill Agreement with HCP. The Court also declared that the Standstill Agreement was still in effect, confirming HCP's several conditional proposals to purchase Sunrise REIT were not bona fide and were made in breach of its Standstill Agreement. The Court dismissed the applications filed by Sunrise REIT and Sunrise, which sought clarification regarding their rights to negotiate with HCP regarding its proposals. On March 23, 2007, the Court of Appeal for Ontario upheld the decision of the Superior Court.
On April 5, 2007, we commenced an action in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Court File No. 07-CV-330703PD1, to recover from Sunrise REIT damages resulting from, among other things, Sunrise REIT's breaches of its standstill enforcement obligations in the Purchase Agreement. On April 26, 2007, upon closing of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we and Sunrise REIT entered into an agreement to, among other things, settle this outstanding litigation against Sunrise REIT.
On May 3, 2007, we filed a lawsuit against HCP in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, entitled , Case No. 07-cv-238-JGH. We assert claims of tortious interference with contract and tortious interference with prospective business advantage. The complaint alleges that HCP interfered with our Purchase Agreement to acquire the assets and liabilities of Sunrise REIT and with the process for unitholder consideration of the Purchase Agreement. The complaint alleges, among other things, that HCP made certain improper and misleading offers to acquire Sunrise REIT and that HCP's actions caused us to suffer substantial damages, including, among other things, the payment of materially greater consideration to acquire Sunrise REIT resulting from the substantial increase in the purchase price that was agreed to in the original Purchase Agreement and the delay in closing the acquisition, as well as the negative movements in the foreign currency exchange rates and the per share price of our common equity during such delay. We are seeking monetary relief and punitive damages against HCP. On July 2, 2007, HCP filed its response to our complaint, along with a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. On August 6, 2007, we filed our response to HCP's motion to dismiss. On December 19, 2007, the District Court denied HCP's motion to dismiss. Although we intend to pursue the claims in the action vigorously, we cannot assure you that we will prevail on any of the claims in the action, or, if we do prevail on one or more of the claims, of the amount of recovery that may be awarded to us for such claims.
Ventas, Inc. v. HCP, Inc.
Other Litigation
We are a plaintiff in an action seeking a declaratory judgment and damages entitled , Case No. 99 C107076, filed November 22, 1999 in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Kentucky. Two of the three defendants in that action, Black Diamond International Funding, Ltd. and BDC Finance, LLC (collectively "Black Diamond"), have asserted counterclaims against us under theories of breach of contract, tortious interference with contract and abuse of process. We dispute the material allegations contained in Black Diamond's counterclaims and we intend to continue to pursue our claims and defend the counterclaims vigorously. We are unable at this time to estimate the possible loss or range of loss for the counterclaims in this action, and therefore, no provision for liability, if any, resulting from this litigation has been made in our Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2007.
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership et al. v. Black Diamond CLO 1998-1 Ltd., et al.
We are party to various other lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which may not be insured) arising in the normal course of our business, including, without limitation, in connection with the operations of our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise. It is the opinion of management that, except as set forth in this Note 15, the disposition of these actions, investigations and claims will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect on us. However, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, investigations and claims, and if management's assessment of our liability with respect to these actions, investigations and claims is incorrect, such actions, investigations and claims could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
 
Note 16Capital Stock
At December 31, 2007, our authorized capital stock consisted of 300,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per share, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share. Our authorized capital stock at December 31, 2006 and 2005 consisted of 180,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock.
In May 2007, we completed the sale of 26,910,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our current shelf registration statement. We received $1.05 billion in net proceeds from the sale, which we used along with the proceeds of the disposition of the Kindred assets (see "Note 6Dispositions") and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility to redeem all of our outstanding Series A Senior Preferred Stock and to repay our indebtedness under the senior interim loan used to fund a portion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition.
Our automatic universal shelf registration statement, filed with the Commission in April 2006, relates to the sale, from time to time, of an indeterminate amount of debt securities and related guarantees, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The registration statement replaced our previous universal shelf registration statement, under which approximately $500.0 million of securities remained available for offering.
In July 2005, we completed the sale of 3,247,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our previous shelf registration statement. We received $97.0 million in net proceeds from the sale, which we used to repay indebtedness under our previous secured revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes, including the funding of acquisitions, if any.
In February 2008, we completed the sale of 4,485,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our current shelf registration statement. We received $191.9 million in net proceeds, before expenses but after the underwriting discount, from the sale, which we used in part to repay indebtedness and will use for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including to fund future acquisitions, if any.
Excess Share Provision
In order to preserve our ability to maintain REIT status, our Certificate of Incorporation provides that if a person acquires beneficial ownership of greater than 9% of our outstanding common stock or 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of such limit are deemed to be excess shares. These shares are automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors. The trust is entitled to all dividends with respect to the shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the shares.
We have the right to buy the excess shares for a purchase price equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares, or (ii) the market price on the date we buy the shares, and we may defer payment of the purchase price for the excess shares for up to five years. If we do not purchase the excess shares, the trustee of the trust is required to transfer the excess shares at the direction of the Board of Directors. The owner of the excess shares is entitled to receive the lesser of the proceeds from the sale of the excess shares or the original purchase price for such excess shares; any additional amounts are payable to the beneficiary of the trust.
The Board of Directors is empowered to grant waivers from the excess share provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation.
Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
We have a Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Under the plan's terms, existing stockholders may purchase shares of common stock by reinvesting all or a portion of the cash distribution on their shares of our common stock. In addition, existing stockholders, as well as new investors, may purchase shares of common stock by making optional cash payments. In March 2005, we began offering a 1% discount on the purchase price of our stock to shareholders who reinvest their dividends and/or make optional cash purchases of common stock through the plan. The availability of a market discount is at our discretion. The granting of a discount for one month or quarter, as applicable, will not insure the availability of a discount or the same discount in future months or quarters, respectively. Each month or quarter, as applicable, we may lower or eliminate the discount without prior notice. We may also, without prior notice, change our determination as to whether common shares will be purchased by the plan administrator directly from us or in the open market.
 
Note 17Related Party Transactions
At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had loan receivables of approximately $2.1 million and $2.5 million, respectively, due from certain current and former executive officers. The loans include interest provisions (with a 4.9% average annual interest rate) and were made in 1998 and at various times from 1999 through 2002 to finance the income taxes payable by the executive officers resulting from: (i) our 1998 spin off of Kindred and (ii) vesting of restricted shares. The loans are payable over a period of ten years. Interest on a note relating to the spin off in the principal amount of $0.4 million at December 31, 2007 (the "Spin Off Note") is paid on a quarterly basis and principal on this note is paid annually. The payee of the Spin Off Note resigned as an employee and director of Ventas in January 2003. In the event of a change in control, as defined in our previous 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan, accrued interest on and the principal balance of the Spin Off Note is forgiven. Interest on the note relating to taxes paid for the vested portion of restricted shares (the "Restricted Share Note") is payable annually out of and only to the extent of dividends from the vested restricted shares. In the event of a change in control or upon termination of the officer without cause, as such terms are defined in the relevant employment agreement, the principal balance of the Restricted Share Note is forgiven. The Restricted Share Note is secured by a pledge of all of the restricted shares to which the Restricted Share Note relates and the Restricted Share Note is otherwise non-recourse. The Spin Off Note is not secured.
During 1998, we acquired eight personal care facilities and related facilities for approximately $7.1 million from Tangram Rehabilitation Network, Inc. ("Tangram"). Tangram is a wholly owned subsidiary of Res-Care, Inc. ("Res-Care") of which a member of our Board of Directors is the Chairman of the Board. We lease the Tangram facilities to Tangram pursuant to a master lease agreement which is guaranteed by Res-Care. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Tangram has paid us approximately $917,000, $897,000 and $863,000, respectively, in base rent payments.
 
Note 18Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
Summarized unaudited consolidated quarterly information for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 is provided below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 19Segment Information
As of December 31, 2007, we operated through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. Our triple-net leased properties segment consists of financing, owning and leasing seniors housing and healthcare-related properties in the United States and leasing or subleasing those properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior living operations segment consists of investments in seniors housing communities located in the United States and Canada for which we engage Sunrise to manage the operations.
We acquired the senior living operations segment on April 26, 2007, pursuant to the purchase of the Sunrise REIT properties. With the addition of these properties, we believed segment differentiation would be appropriate based on the different economic and legal structures used to acquire and own those assets. Prior to the acquisition, we operated through one reportable segment  investment in real estate  which included the triple-net leased properties and our MOBs. Our MOB segment consists of leasing space primarily to physicians and other healthcare-related businesses and engaging third parties to manage those operations. Due to our limited operation of and allocation of capital to the MOBs, we separated them from the triple-net leased properties segment. However, the MOB segment is not individually reported and is included in "All Other" because it does not meet the quantitative thresholds of SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" at the current time.
We evaluate performance of the combined properties in each segment based on net operating income before interest (excluding interest income from loans receivable), income taxes, depreciation and amortization, rent reset costs, reversal of contingent liability, foreign currency gains/losses, general, administrative and professional fees, merger-related expenses and minority interest. There are no intersegment sales or transfers.
All other revenues consist primarily of rental income related to the MOBs, interest income from loans receivable and other miscellaneous income. All other assets consist primarily of MOB assets and corporate assets including cash, restricted cash, deferred financing costs, notes receivable, and miscellaneous accounts receivable.
Summary information by business segment is as follows:
For the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006:
 
For the year ended December 31, 2005:
 
 
 
Our portfolio of properties and real estate investments are located in the United States and Canada. Revenues are attributed to an individual country based on the location of each property.
Geographic information regarding our business segments is as follows:
 
 
Note 20Condensed Consolidating Information
We and certain of our direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors") have fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to the Senior Notes of the Issuers. Ventas Capital Corporation is a wholly owned direct subsidiary of Ventas Realty that was formed to facilitate the offering of the Senior Notes and has no assets or operations. In addition, Ventas Realty and the Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors have fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to our Convertible Notes. ETOP, of which we own substantially all of the partnership units, and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries (the "ETOP Subsidiary Guarantors" and collectively, with the Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors, the "Guarantors"), have also provided a guarantee, on a joint and several basis, of the Senior Notes and the Convertible Notes. We have other subsidiaries ("Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries") that are not included among the Guarantors, and such subsidiaries are not obligated with respect to the Senior Notes or the Convertible Notes. Contractual and legal restrictions, including those contained in the instruments governing certain Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries' outstanding indebtedness, may under certain circumstances restrict our ability to obtain cash from our Non-Guarantor
 
Subsidiaries for the purpose of meeting our debt service obligations, including our guarantee of payment of principal and interest on the Senior Notes and our primary obligation to pay principal and interest on the Convertible Notes. Certain of our real estate assets are also subject to mortgages. The following summarizes our condensed consolidating information as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 and for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 21ETOP Condensed Consolidating Information
ETOP, of which we own substantially all of the partnership interests, and the ETOP Subsidiary Guarantors have provided full and unconditional guarantees, on a joint and several basis with us and certain of our direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, of the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to the Senior Notes and the Convertible Notes. See "Note 20Condensed Consolidating Information." Certain of ETOP's other direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries (the "ETOP Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries") have not provided a guarantee of the Senior Notes or the Convertible Notes and, therefore, are not directly obligated with respect to the Senior Notes or the Convertible Notes.
Contractual and legal restrictions, including those contained in the instruments governing certain of the ETOP Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries' outstanding indebtedness, may under certain circumstances restrict ETOP's (and therefore our) ability to obtain cash from the ETOP Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries for the purpose of satisfying ETOP's and our debt service obligations, including ETOP's and our guarantee of payment of principal and interest on the Senior Notes and our primary obligation to pay principal and interest on the Convertible Notes. See "Note 9Borrowing Arrangements." Certain of the ETOP Subsidiary Guarantors' properties are subject to mortgages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
On April 26, 2007, Ventas, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Ventas") completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust ("Sunrise REIT"). That transaction was originally reported on a Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1, 2007 and subsequently amended by a Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on July 9, 2007. This unaudited pro forma information is being filed to update the pro forma information included in that Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information sets forth:
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income is prepared for informational purposes only and is based on assumptions and estimates considered appropriate by Ventas's management; however, it is not necessarily indicative of what the results of operations of Ventas actually would have been assuming the transactions had been consummated as of the dates indicated nor does it purport to represent the results of operations for future periods. Further, as the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income includes only those adjustments directly attributable to these transactions, it does not include the impact of any strategies that management may consider in order to continue to efficiently manage Ventas's operations. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements of Ventas, including the notes thereto, included in Exhibit 99.1 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The acquisition of Sunrise REIT was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The total purchase price of approximately $2.0 billion was allocated to the assets and liabilities of the Sunrise REIT properties based upon their respective fair values. For purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income, such allocation has been made based upon valuations and other studies which may be subject to adjustment. Accordingly, the impact of the allocation of the purchase price included in the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income is preliminary.
 
 
 
n/a Not applicable.
1. Adjustments to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


