FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20090413081357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
Not applicable.
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information.
Not applicable.
(c) .
Shell Company Transactions
Not applicable.
(d)
Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
April 7, 2009
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
INCORPORATED
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
UBS SECURITIES LLC
CALYON SECURITIES (USA) INC.
BMO CAPITAL MARKETS CORP.
KEYBANC CAPITAL MARKETS INC.
As Underwriters
c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated
4 World Financial Center, North Tower
New York, New York 10080
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("" or the ""), and Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), agree with the underwriters listed in Schedule A hereto (the ""), for whom Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and UBS Securities LLC are acting as representatives (the ""), as set forth in this underwriting agreement (this ""). Each of Ventas and the Operating Partnership are referred to herein sometimes individually as a "" and together as the "."
Ventas
Issuer
Operating Partnership
Underwriters
Representatives
Agreement
Ventas Entity
Ventas Entities
The Issuer proposes to (i) issue and sell to the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, 12,750,000 shares of the Issuer's common stock, par value $0.25 per share (the ""), and (ii) grant to the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, the option described in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any part of 1,912,500 additional shares of the Issuer's common stock to cover overallotments, if any (the ""). The Initial Securities and the Option Securities are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "." Securities issued in book-entry form will be issued in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("").
Initial Securities
Option Securities
Securities
DTC
SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
(a) The Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, represent and warrant to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Applicable Time referred to in Section 1(a)(iv) hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(c) hereof, and agree with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Ventas Entities.
(i) . The Issuer has prepared and filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-158424), which contains a base prospectus (the "
Registration Statement
Commission
Base
"), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of the Securities. Such registration statement, as amended, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, at each time of effectiveness under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""), including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the 1933 Act, is called the "." Any preliminary prospectus supplement that describes the Securities and the offering thereof and is used prior to the filing of the Prospectus is hereafter called, together with the Base Prospectus, a "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto (the ""), together with the Base Prospectus. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act; any reference to any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after the date of such Registration Statement, such Base Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""), and incorporated by reference in such Registration Statement, such Base Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be.
Prospectus
1933 Act
1933 Act Regulations
Registration Statement
preliminary prospectus
Prospectus
Execution Time
1934 Act
1934 Act Regulations
(ii) . The Registration Statement has become effective upon filing with the Commission under the 1933 Act. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement is in effect, the Commission has not issued any order or notice preventing or suspending the use of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission.
Compliance with Registration Requirements
Each of the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus when filed complied in all material respects with the 1933 Act and the rules thereunder. Each of the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, at each time of effectiveness and at the date hereof, complied and will comply in all material respects with the 1933 Act and did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. The Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, as of its date, at the date hereof, at the time of any filing pursuant to Rule 424(b) and at the Closing Time, did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The representations and warranties set forth in the two immediately preceding sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, or the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements thereto, made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any
 
Underwriter furnished to Ventas in writing by the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representatives consists of the Underwriter Information described as such in Section 6(b) hereof. There is no contract or other document required to be described in the Prospectus or to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement that has not been described or filed as required.
The documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, as applicable. Any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, as applicable.
(iii) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto, if applicable, for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the 1934 Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act or form of prospectus) or determining compliance under Rule 405 of the 1933 Act, and (iii) at the time the Issuer or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the 1933 Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the 1933 Act, the Issuer was and is a "" as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act. The Registration Statement is an "," as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act, and Ventas has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
well-known seasoned issuer
automatic shelf registration statement
(iv) . The term "" shall mean (i) the Base Prospectus and the preliminary prospectus, if any, as amended or supplemented, (ii) any "" as defined in Rule 433 of the 1933 Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex A hereto, (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and (iv) the number of Initial Securities being offered, the number of Option Securities subject to the Underwriters' overallotment option, the price to the public of the Securities, and the use of proceeds identified in Annex B hereto. As of 10:15 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of this Agreement (the ""), the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to Ventas in writing by the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representatives consists of the Underwriter Information described as such in Section 6(b) hereof.
Disclosure Package
Disclosure Package
issuer free writing prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Applicable Time
 
(v) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement relating to the Securities that the Issuer or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2) of the 1933 Act) and (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto, if applicable, for the purposes of (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act or form of prospectus) determining compliance under Rule 405 of the 1933 Act, the Issuer was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the 1933 Act that it is not necessary that the Issuer be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Issuer Not Ineligible Issuer
bona fide
(vi) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Securities under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Issuer notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Issuer has promptly notified and shall promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or shall promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished in writing to the Issuer by the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representatives consists of the Underwriter Information described as such in Section 6(b) hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
(vii) . The Issuer has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Time and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities other than the preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives or included in Annex A hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material by the Issuer
(viii) . There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights
(ix) . Ventas has an authorized capitalization of 300,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.25 par value (the ""), and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $1.00 par value. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of Ventas have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and were not issued in violation of any preemptive or similar right. Attached as Schedule B is a true and complete list identifying each
Capitalization
Common Stock
 
subsidiary (as defined in the 1933 Act) of Ventas as of the date hereof, its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation and its direct or indirect percentage equity ownership by Ventas (all such entities, the ""). All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each such Subsidiary have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and (except in the case of general partnership interests) nonassessable, were not issued in violation of any preemptive or similar right and, except as set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or on Schedule B, are owned by Ventas, directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries, free and clear of all Liens other than Liens (i) that will be discharged at or prior to the Closing Time or (ii) that are described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and secure indebtedness described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Except as set forth on Schedule B, there are no outstanding options, warrants or other rights to acquire or purchase, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock of any of the Significant Subsidiaries. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means any Subsidiary whose total assets or annualized revenues (when aggregated with those of its Subsidiaries) as of the date of this Agreement exceed 10% of the consolidated total assets or consolidated annualized revenues of Ventas and the Subsidiaries as of the date of this Agreement. "" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction.
Subsidiaries
Significant Subsidiary
Lien
(x) [Reserved].
(xi) . The Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Issuer have been duly authorized by the Issuer for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement, and at the Closing Time, when issued and delivered by the Issuer against payment by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, will have been validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and conform to the description thereof contained or incorporated by reference in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package; and the stockholders of the Issuer will have no preemptive or similar rights with respect to the Securities.
Authorization and Description of the Securities
(xii) . Each of Ventas and its (a) Significant Subsidiaries is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or real estate investment trust duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) Subsidiaries has all requisite corporate, partnership, limited liability company or trust power and authority, and has all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals, necessary to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted, except where the failure to obtain any such license, authorization, consent and approval is not reasonably likely, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below), and (c) Subsidiaries is qualified to do business and is in good standing in all jurisdictions in which the
Good Standing of Ventas and Its Subsidiaries; Power and Authority
 
nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary except where failure to be so qualified and in good standing is not reasonably likely, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below). Each of the Ventas Entities has all requisite corporate, partnership, limited liability company or trust power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby to be consummated on its part, including, without limitation, in the case of Ventas, the authority to issue, sell and deliver the Securities. A "" means any material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or other), results of operations, performance or properties of Ventas and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
(xiii) . This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the Ventas Entities.
Authorization of this Agreement
(xiv) . Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary is in violation of its charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents. Except as described in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, none of Ventas or any Subsidiary is (A) in default (or, with notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any bond, debenture, note, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, lease, license, franchise agreement, authorization, permit, certificate or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of their assets or properties is subject (collectively, "") or (B) in violation of any law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court with jurisdiction over any of them or any of their assets or properties or other governmental or regulatory authority, agency or other body, which, in the case of clauses (A) and (B), individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. There exists no condition that, with notice, the passage of time or otherwise, would constitute a default by Ventas or any Subsidiary under any such document or instrument or result in the imposition of any penalty or the acceleration of any indebtedness, other than penalties, defaults or conditions that, individually or in the aggregate, are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
Agreements and Instruments
(xv) . None of the issuance, offer and sale of the Securities by the Issuer, the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by each of the Ventas Entities, or the consummation by the Ventas Entities of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and described in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package violate or will violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or results in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge, or encumbrance on any property or assets of Ventas or any Subsidiary pursuant to, (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of Ventas or any Subsidiary, (ii) any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to Ventas or any Subsidiary or their respective assets or properties, (iii) any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over Ventas or any Subsidiary or their respective assets or properties or
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts upon Consummation of Offering
 
(iv) any Agreements and Instruments, except in the case of clauses (ii) and (iv), for such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults, liens, charges or encumbrances that, individually or in the aggregate, are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any court or governmental agency, body or administrative agency, domestic or foreign, is required to be obtained or made by the Issuer or any Subsidiary for the execution, delivery and performance by the Ventas Entities of this Agreement, including the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated hereby, except such as have been or will be obtained or made at or prior to the Closing Time, including, without limitation, such as may be required by the 1933 Act, state securities laws, blue sky laws and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("").
FINRA
(xvi) . Except as set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no action, suit or proceeding before or by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, body or official, domestic or foreign, now pending or, to the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, threatened or contemplated, to which any of Ventas or any Subsidiary is or may be a party or to which the business, assets or property of such person is or may be subject that is, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely (i) to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Securities in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Except as set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is (A) no statute, rule, regulation or order that has been enacted, adopted or issued or, to the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, that has been proposed by any governmental body or agency, domestic or foreign, and (B) no injunction, restraining order or order of any nature by a federal or state court or foreign court of competent jurisdiction to which Ventas or any Subsidiary is or may be subject that in the case of clauses (A) and (B) is, individually or in the aggregate, (x) reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (y) reasonably likely to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Securities in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Every request of any securities authority or agency of any jurisdiction for additional information with respect to the Securities that has been received by Ventas or any Subsidiary or their counsel prior to the date hereof has been, or will prior to the Closing Time be, complied with in all material respects.
Absence of Proceedings
(xvii) . Ventas is subject to and in compliance in all material respects with the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act.
1934 Act Compliance
(xviii) . Except as is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, no labor disturbance by the employees of Ventas or any Subsidiary exists or, to the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, is imminent. None of the Ventas Entities is aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. which may reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
 
(xix) . Except as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, Ventas and each Subsidiary (A) is in compliance with, or not subject to costs or liabilities under, laws, regulations, rules of common law, orders and decrees, as in effect as of the date hereof, and any present judgments and injunctions issued or promulgated thereunder relating to pollution or protection of public and employee health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants applicable to it or its business or operations or ownership or use of its property (""), other than noncompliance or such costs or liabilities that are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (B) possesses all permits, licenses or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws, except where the failure to possess any such permit, license or other approval is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. All currently pending and, to the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, threatened proceedings, notices of violation, demands, notices of potential responsibility or liability, suits and existing environmental conditions by any governmental authority to which any of the Ventas Entities is subject that are reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect are fully and accurately described in all material respects in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Environmental Laws
Environmental Laws
(xx) . Ventas and each Subsidiary has (A) all licenses, certificates, permits, authorizations, approvals, franchises and other rights from, and has made all declarations and filings with, all applicable authorities, all self-regulatory authorities and all courts and other tribunals (each, an "") necessary to engage in the business conducted by it in the manner described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except where the failure to hold such Authorizations is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (B) no knowledge that any governmental body or agency, domestic or foreign, is considering limiting, suspending or revoking any such Authorization, except where any such limitations, suspensions or revocations are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. All such Authorizations are valid and in full force and effect, and Ventas and each Subsidiary is in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Authorizations and with the rules and regulations of the regulatory authorities having jurisdiction with respect to such Authorizations, except for any invalidity, failure to be in full force and effect or noncompliance with any Authorization that is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
Authorization
(xxi) . Ventas and each Subsidiary has good and marketable title in fee simple or a ground leasehold interest in all items of real property and good and marketable title to all personal property owned by each of them, in each case free and clear of all Liens, except (i) for Liens described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and (ii) to the extent that the failure to have such title or the presence of such Liens is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Any real property and buildings held under lease by Ventas or any Subsidiary are held under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases, except to the extent that the failure to so hold such real property and buildings is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Property
 
(xxii) . Each of Ventas' and the Subsidiaries' leases, including the Master Leases (as defined below), has been duly authorized by one or more of Ventas and its Subsidiaries, as applicable, and is a valid and binding agreement of Ventas and/or any such Subsidiary, and, to the knowledge of Ventas and/or any such Subsidiary, each other party thereto, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought and except, with respect to Ventas' and the Subsidiaries' leases (other than the Master Leases), as would not individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, no lessee or sublessee of any portion of any of the properties owned or leased by Ventas and/or any Subsidiary is in default under its respective lease and there is no event which, but for the passage of time or the giving of notice or both, would constitute a default under any such lease, except as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and except for such defaults that are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. The term "" refers to the four second amended and restated master lease agreements, dated as of April 27, 2007, by and among the Operating Partnership and Kindred Healthcare Inc. and Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc.
Authorization, etc. of Leases
Master Leases
(xxiii) . Commencing with Ventas' taxable year ended December 31, 1999, Ventas has been organized and has operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a real estate investment trust ("") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the Issuer's current and proposed method of operation will enable the Issuer to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Code. ElderTrust is a "" within the meaning of Section 856(i)(2) of the Code.
Qualification as a REIT
REIT
Code
qualified REIT subsidiary
(xxiv) . Each of Ventas and each Significant Subsidiary owns, possesses or has the right to employ all patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, service marks, trade names and other intellectual property (collectively, the "") necessary to conduct the businesses operated by it as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except where the failure to own, possess or have the right to employ such Intellectual Property is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. None of Ventas or any Subsidiary has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with (and neither knows of any such infringement or a conflict with) asserted rights of others with respect to any of the foregoing that, if such assertion of infringement or conflict were sustained, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of each of the Ventas Entities, the use of the Intellectual Property in connection with the business and operations of Ventas and the Subsidiaries does not infringe on the rights of any person, except for such infringement as is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has received any notice of, and otherwise has no knowledge of, any threatened or existing action, suit, proceeding or claim by any person challenging use of the Intellectual Property by Ventas and the Subsidiaries.
Possession of Intellectual Property
Intellectual Property
 
(xxv) . (A) All tax returns required to be filed by Ventas and each Subsidiary have been timely filed in all jurisdictions where such returns are required to be filed; (B) Ventas and each Subsidiary have paid all taxes, including, but not limited to, income, value added, property and franchise taxes, penalties and interest, assessments, fees and other charges due or claimed to be due from such entities or that are due and payable, other than those being contested in good faith and for which reserves have been provided in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("") or those currently payable without penalty or interest; and (C) Ventas and each Subsidiary has complied with all withholding tax obligations except, in the case of any of clause (A), (B) or (C), where the failure to make such required filings, payments or withholdings is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, none of Ventas or any Subsidiary has knowledge of any material proposed additional tax assessments against Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries or their assets or property.
Tax Returns and Payment of Taxes
GAAP
(xxvi) . None of Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries has any liability for any prohibited transaction or accumulated funding deficiency (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code) or any complete or partial withdrawal liability with respect to any pension, profit sharing or other plan which is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), to which Ventas or any Subsidiary makes or ever has made a contribution and in which any employee of Ventas or any Subsidiary is or has ever been a participant. With respect to such plans, Ventas and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable provisions of ERISA.
Certain ERISA Matters
ERISA
(xxvii) . None of the Ventas Entities is, or upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated and any application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus will be, an "" or a company "" by an "" as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
investment company
controlled
investment company
1940 Act
(xxviii) . Each of Ventas and each Subsidiary maintains or causes to be maintained by the lessee under the leases for its properties or by the manager of its properties insurance covering its properties (including title to its properties), assets, operations, personnel and businesses, and such insurance is of such type and in such amounts in accordance with customary industry practice and in Ventas' reasonable judgment sufficient to protect Ventas and the Subsidiaries and their businesses.
Insurance for Properties
(xxix) . Ventas maintains effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in the 1934 Act. Each of Ventas and each Subsidiary maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that: (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of its financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Accounting and Other Controls
 
(xxx) . Except as disclosed in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or in any document incorporated by reference therein, since the end of Ventas' most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (A) no material weakness in Ventas' internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (B) no change in Ventas' internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Ventas' internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls
(xxxi) . Since December 31, 2008, neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has incurred any material liabilities or obligations, direct or contingent, that were not set forth in Ventas' consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008, or in the notes thereto, incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, or otherwise described therein, other than the performance by Ventas and each Subsidiary of their respective obligations under ordinary course executory contracts that are not in default, that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and that are not required by GAAP, as modified by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations, to be disclosed on a regularly prepared balance sheet or in the notes thereto. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, (a) none of Ventas or any Subsidiary has (1) incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (2) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (b) there has not been any event or development in respect of the business or condition (financial or other) of Ventas and the Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) there has not been any change in the long-term debt of Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries or in the authorized capitalization of Ventas.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
(xxxii) . Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary (or any agent thereof acting on its behalf other than the Underwriters, as to whom Ventas makes no representation or warranty) has taken, and none of them will take, any action that would cause this Agreement or the issuance or sale of the Securities to violate Section 7 of the 1934 Act or Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect, or as the same may hereafter be in effect, at the Closing Time.
Regulations T, U, X
(xxxiii) . Ernst & Young LLP is an independent public accountant with respect to Ventas, as required by the 1933 Act, the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1934 Act. The historical financial statements, together with the related financial schedules and notes thereto, included or incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that relate to Ventas and the Subsidiaries present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position and results of operations of Ventas and the Subsidiaries at the respective dates and for the respective periods
Independent Accountants and Financial Statements
 
indicated. Such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods presented (except as disclosed in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus). The supporting schedules of Ventas and the Subsidiaries, if any, included or incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that relate to Ventas and the Subsidiaries present fairly in all material respects in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein and comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the 1933 Act. The other financial and statistical information and data included or incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus relating to Ventas and the Subsidiaries are accurately presented in all material respects and prepared on a basis consistent with the financial statements and the books and records of Ventas and the Subsidiaries. Other than the financial statements or supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, no other financial statements or supporting schedules are required to be included or incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(xxxiv) . Each of the Ventas Entities, is and will be, immediately following the issuance of the Securities at the Closing Time, Solvent. None of the Ventas Entities, is contemplating either the filing of a petition by it under any bankruptcy or insolvency laws or the liquidating of all or a substantial portion of its property, and none of the Ventas Entities has knowledge of any person contemplating the filing of any such petition against any of the Ventas Entities. As used herein, "" shall mean, for any person on a particular date, that on such date (a) the fair value of the property of such person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent liabilities, of such person, (b) the present fair salable value of the assets of such person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such person on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) such person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts and liabilities beyond such person's ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature, (d) such person is not engaged in a business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in a business or a transaction, for which such person's property would constitute an unreasonably small capital and (e) such person is able to pay its debts as they become due and payable.
Solvency
Solvent
(xxxv) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, including, but not limited to, the most recent Annual Report of Ventas on Form 10-K filed with the Commission, as amended by Ventas' Annual Report on Form 10-K/A, filed with the Commission on March 31, 2009 (the ""), each Current Report of Ventas on Form 8-K filed with the Commission since the end of the fiscal year to which such Annual Report relates, and Ventas' Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, prior to the Execution Time, when they became effective or at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission (together, the ""), complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations or the 1934 Act and 1934 Act Regulations, as applicable, and, when read together with the other information in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, at the Execution Time and at the Closing Time, do not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
Annual Report
Incorporated Documents
 
(xxxvi) . None of Ventas or any Subsidiary or, to the best of its knowledge, any of their directors, officers or affiliates has taken or will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to, or that would reasonably be expected to, cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Stabilization or Manipulation
(xxxvii) . Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds" and "Underwriting," there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between Ventas or any Significant Subsidiary and any other person that would give rise to a valid claim against Ventas, any Significant Subsidiary or the Underwriters for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or like payment in connection with the issuance, purchase and sale of the Securities.
Distribution
(xxxviii) . All (A) statistical and market-related data and (B) data (including financial information) with respect to Kindred Healthcare Inc., Brookdale Senior Living or Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. ("") included in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus are based on or derived from sources that the Ventas Entities reasonably believe to be accurate in all material respects or represent the Ventas Entities' good faith estimates that are made on the basis of data derived from sources the Ventas Entities reasonably believe to be reliable and accurate in all material respects.
Statistical and Other Data
Sunrise
(xxxix) . Ventas is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
(b) 'Any certificate signed by any officer of any Ventas Entity or any Subsidiary addressed and delivered to the Underwriters or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by such Ventas Entity to the Underwriters as to the matters covered thereby. The Ventas Entities acknowledge that the Underwriters and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to the Underwriters pursuant to Section 5 hereof, counsel to the Ventas Entities and counsel to the Underwriters will rely upon the accuracy of the foregoing representations, and the Ventas Entities hereby consent to such reliance.
Officer
s Certificates.
SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to the Underwriters; Closing
(a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Issuer agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Issuer, at a purchase price of $22.944 per share, the respective number of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional number of Initial Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof, bears to the total number of Initial Securities, subject, in each case, to such adjustments among the Underwriters as the Representatives in their sole discretion shall make to eliminate any sales or purchases of fractional securities.
Initial Securities
 
(b) . In addition, on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Issuer hereby grants an option to the Underwriters, severally and not jointly, to purchase the Option Securities, as set forth in Schedule A, at the price per share to be paid for the Initial Securities, less an amount per share equal to any dividends or distributions declared by the Issuer and payable on the Initial Securities but not payable on the Option Securities. The option hereby granted will expire 30 days after the date hereof and may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time (but not more than two (2) times without the written consent of the Issuer) only for the purpose of covering overallotments which may be made in connection with the offering and distribution of the Initial Securities upon written notice by the Representatives to the Issuer setting forth the number of Option Securities as to which the several Underwriters are then exercising the option and the time and date of payment and delivery for such Option Securities. Any such time and date of delivery (an "") shall be determined by the Representatives, but shall not be later than seven full business days after the exercise of said option, nor in any event prior to the Closing Time. If the option is exercised as to all or any portion of the Option Securities, each of the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, will purchase that proportion of the total number of Option Securities then being purchased which the number of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter bears to the total number of Initial Securities, subject in each case to such adjustments as the Representatives in their discretion shall make to eliminate any sales or purchases of fractional shares.
Option Securities
Additional Closing Time
(c) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Securities shall be made at the offices of Cahill Gordon & Reindel , 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Issuer at 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on April 13, 2009, or such other time not later than seven business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives and the Issuer (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called the "").
Payment
LLP
Closing Time
Payment shall be made to the Issuer by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account or accounts designated by the Issuer against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, which it has agreed to purchase.
(d) One or more of the Securities in global form shall be in such denominations and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC. The Securities will be made available for examination by the Underwriters in The City of New York not later than 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time or the Additional Closing Time, as the case may be.
Denominations; Registration.
(e) . Not later than 10:00 a.m. on the second business day following the date the Securities are first released by the Underwriters for sale to the public, to the extent required, the Ventas Entities shall deliver or cause to be delivered, copies of the Prospectus in such quantities and at such places as the Representatives shall reasonably request.
Delivery of Prospectus to the Underwriters
 
SECTION 3. . The Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, covenant with the Underwriters and, as applicable, the Underwriters covenant with the Ventas Entities as follows:
Covenants of the Ventas Entities and the Underwriters
(a) During the period beginning on the Applicable Time and ending on the later of the Closing Time or such date, as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 (the ""), prior to amending or supplementing the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, the Ventas Entities shall furnish to the Representatives for review a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement, and the Ventas Entities shall not file or use any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object within a reasonable time.
Representatives' Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements.
Prospectus Delivery Period
(b) After the date of this Agreement, the Ventas Entities shall promptly advise the Representatives in writing (i) when the Registration Statement, if not effective at the Execution Time, shall have become effective, (ii) of the receipt of any comments of, or requests for additional or supplemental information from, the Commission, (iii) of the time and date of any filing of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, (iv) of the time and date that any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement becomes effective, and (v) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order or notice preventing or suspending the use of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or of any receipt by the Ventas Entities of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or of the threatening or initiation of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Ventas Entities shall use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or notice of prevention or suspension of such use. If the Commission shall enter any such stop order or issue any such notice at any time, the Ventas Entities will use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the lifting or reversal of such order or notice at the earliest practicable moment, or, subject to Section 3(a) hereof, will file an amendment to the Registration Statement or will file a new registration statement and use its reasonable best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable. Additionally, the Ventas Entities agree that they shall comply with the provisions of Rules 424(b) and 430B, as applicable, under the 1933 Act, including with respect to the timely filing of documents thereunder.
1933 Act Compliance.
(c) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Ventas Entities will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15 of the 1934 Act in the manner and within the time periods required by the 1934 Act.
1934 Act Compliance.
(d) [Reserved].
 
(e) The Ventas Entities represent, jointly and severally, that they have not made, and agree that, unless they obtain the prior written consent of the Representatives, they will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that constitutes or would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that otherwise constitutes or would constitute a "" (as defined in Rule 405 of the 1933 Act) or a portion thereof required to be filed by the Ventas Entities with the Commission or retained by the Ventas Entities under Rule 433 of the 1933 Act; that the prior written consent of the Representatives hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex B hereto and any electronic road show. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Ventas Entities agree that (i) they have treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) they have complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the 1933 Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Ventas Entities consent to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering or (ii) information permitted under Rule 134 under the 1933 Act; that each Underwriter severally covenants with the Ventas Entities not to take any action without the Ventas Entities' consent (which consent shall be confirmed in writing) that would result in the Ventas Entities being required to file with the Commission under Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of such Underwriter that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Ventas Entities thereunder, but for the action of the Underwriter.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses.
free writing prospectus
provided
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
issuer free writing prospectus
provided
(f) If, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event or development shall occur or condition exist as a result of which the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the 1934 Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading, or if in the reasonable judgment of the Ventas Entities or their counsel it is otherwise necessary to amend or supplement the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the 1934 Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file a new registration statement containing the Prospectus, in order to comply with applicable law, including in connection with the delivery of the Prospectus, the Ventas Entities agree to (i) notify the Representatives of any such event or condition and (ii) upon reasonable notice to the Representatives, promptly prepare (subject to Section 3(a) and 3(e) hereof), file with the Commission (and use their reasonable best efforts to have any amendment to the Registration Statement or any new registration statement to be declared effective) and furnish at their own expense to the Underwriters and to dealers, amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or any new registration statement, necessary in order to make the statements in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus
Amendments and Supplements to the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus and Other 1933 Act Matters.
 
as so amended or supplemented, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading or so that the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with applicable law.
(g) The Ventas Entities will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters signed copies of the Registration Statement (including exhibits thereto) and, so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be required by the 1933 Act, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus and any amendments and supplements thereto (including any documents incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference therein) and the Disclosure Package as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Copies of the Registration Statements and the Prospectus.
(h) Each Ventas Entity agrees to use its reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Underwriters may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities; , , that the Ventas Entities shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which they are not so qualified or to subject themselves to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which they are not otherwise so subject. In each jurisdiction in which the Securities have been so qualified, the Ventas Entities will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities.
Blue Sky Qualifications.
provided
however
(i) Without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, the Ventas Entities will not, during the period ending 60 days after the date of the Prospectus, (i) offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase, lend, or otherwise transfer or dispose of, directly or indirectly, any shares of its Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock, (ii) enter into any swap or other arrangement that transfers to another, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of the Common Stock, or (iii) file with the Commission a registration statement under the 1933 Act relating to any additional shares of its Common Stock or securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, any shares of its Common Stock, or publicly disclose the intention to effect any transaction described in clause (i), (ii) or (iii), whether any such transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise; that the foregoing shall not apply to (A) the sale of the Securities under this Agreement, (B) the grant by the Ventas Entities of employee or director stock options, shares of restricted stock or restricted stock units in the ordinary course of business or the issuance by the Ventas Entities of any shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of an option or warrant, the settlement of any stock unit account or the conversion of a security outstanding on the date hereof, (C) the filing and effectiveness of any amendment to Ventas' existing shelf registration statements (Registration No. 333-141605 and 333-158424, respectively) relating to the resale by the holders of the Issuer's 3
Clear Market.
provided
 7
/
8
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 or the addition of any subsidiary guarantor registrants, as applicable, (D) the issuance and sale of shares of Common Stock pursuant to, or the filing of a new shelf registration statement
 
relating to, the Ventas Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan or the Ventas Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan and (E) the filing of a new universal shelf registration statement to replace the Registration Statement, that the securities registered under such new universal shelf registration statement shall remain subject to the restrictions above.
provided
(j) . To use the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities in the manner described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
(k) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Ventas Entities shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under the 1934 Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
(l) The Ventas Entities agree to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) of the 1933 Act without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the 1933 Act.
Filing Fees.
(m) The Ventas Entities will use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the approval of the Securities by DTC for "book-entry" transfer and agree to comply with all of its agreements set forth in its representation letters relating to the approval of the Securities by DTC for "book-entry" transfer.
DTC.
(n) . The Issuer will use its reasonable best efforts to effect the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange subject to official notice of issuance.
Listing
SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
(a) The Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, will pay all costs, fees and expenses incident to the performance of their obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, notarization (if necessary), and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, and such other documents as may be reasonably required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities, (ii) the issuance, transfer and delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters, including any transfer taxes and any stamp or other duties payable upon the sale, issuance or delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters, (iii) the fees and disbursements of the Ventas Entities' counsel, accountants and other advisors, (iv) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(h) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplements thereto ( that the Ventas Entities will only be responsible for paying costs, fees and expenses incurred under this clause (iv) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000), (v) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of such copies of the Disclosure Package and Prospectus (including financial statements and exhibits) and any amendments or supplements thereto, as may be reasonably requested for use in connection with the offering, (vi) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of a reasonable number of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto (not to exceed $10,000), (vii) the fees and
Expenses.
provided
 
expenses of any transfer agent or registrar for the Common Stock, (viii) the approval of the Securities by DTC for "book-entry" transfer, (ix) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange, (x) the performance by the Ventas Entities of their other obligations under this Agreement, (xi) all expenses in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors, including, without limitation, the costs incurred in connection with any chartered private aircraft and the preparation of any "road show" materials; , , that the Underwriters shall be responsible for the costs of their hotel accommodations, commercial aircraft expenses and other personal expenses and (xii) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement.
provided
however
(b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8 hereof, or (ii) the Underwriters decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Ventas Entities agree to reimburse the Underwriters for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the reasonable fees and expenses of their counsel) in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Ventas Entities contained in Section 1 hereof and in certificates of any officer of any Ventas Entity or any Subsidiary delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Ventas Entities of their covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of the Underwriters' Obligations
(a) For the period from and after the Execution Time and prior to the Closing Time and, with respect to the Securities:
Compliance with Registration Requirements; No Stop Order; No Objection from FINRA.
(i) Ventas shall have filed the Prospectus with the Commission (including the information required by Rule 430A under the 1933 Act) in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act;
(ii) Any free writing prospectus listed on Annex B, and any other material required to be filed by Ventas pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act, shall have been filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433 and within the time period required by Rule 164(b);
(iii) No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement, shall be in effect and no proceedings for such purpose shall have been instituted or threatened by the Commission; and Ventas shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the 1933 Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form; and
(iv) FINRA shall have raised no objection to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
 
(b) . No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any governmental agency or authority that would, as of the Closing Time, prevent the issuance of the Securities; except as disclosed in each of the Disclosure Package and Prospectus, no action, suit or proceeding shall have been commenced and be pending against or affecting or, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, threatened against any Ventas Entity before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official that is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Securities in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and no stop order preventing the use of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto shall be in effect.
No Proceedings
(c) . As of December 31, 2008, none of Ventas or any Subsidiary shall have had any material liabilities or obligations, direct or, contingent, that were not set forth in Ventas' consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 or in the notes thereto, incorporated by reference in the Base Prospectus, the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus or otherwise described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, other than the performance by Ventas of its obligations under ordinary course executory contracts that are not in default, that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and that are not required by GAAP, as modified by the 1933 Act, 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and 1934 Act Regulations, to be disclosed on a regularly prepared balance sheet or in the notes thereto. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, (a) none of Ventas or any Subsidiary shall have (1) incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (2) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (b) there shall not been any event or development in respect of the business or condition (financial or other) of Ventas and the Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) there shall not have been any change in the long-term debt of Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries or in the authorized capitalization of Ventas.
No Material Liabilities, Events
(d) At the Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of:
Opinion of Counsel for the Ventas Entities.
(i) T. Richard Riney, general counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-1 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request;
(ii) Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, as counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibits A-2 and A-3 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request; and
(iii) Greenberg Traurig, LLP, as regulatory counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-4 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
 
(e) At the Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, and a negative assurance letter, dated as of the Closing Time, of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
(f) 'The Underwriters shall have received a certificate of the Chief Executive Officer and President of Ventas and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of Ventas, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that (i) the representations and warranties of the Ventas Entities in Section 1(a) hereof and the provisions in Sections 5(a)(i)-(iii) and, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, 5(c)(ii) hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, and (ii) the Ventas Entities have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time.
Officers
Certificate.
(g) ' At the Execution Time, the Underwriters shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, a letter, dated such date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Underwriters containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements of Ventas and the Subsidiaries and certain financial information contained in the Disclosure Package.
Accountant
s Comfort Letter.
(h) At the Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to Section 5(g) hereof, except that (i) it shall cover the financial information in the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus and (ii) the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter.
(i) . The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Time satisfactory evidence of the good standing of Ventas and its Significant Subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as set forth in Schedule C hereto, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication, from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
Good Standing
(j) [Reserved].
(k) The "lock-up" agreements, each substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, of the officers of Ventas identified on Exhibit B-2 relating to sales and certain other dispositions of shares of Common Stock or certain other securities, shall have been delivered to the Representatives on or before the Closing Time and shall be in full force and effect at the Closing Time.
Lock-up Agreements.
(l) [Reserved].
 
(m) . At the Closing Time, the Securities shall have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject only to official notice of issuance.
Approval of Listing
(n) At the Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Ventas Entities in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Underwriters and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents.
(o) . In the event that the Representatives exercise their option provided in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any portion of the Option Securities, the representations and warranties of the Ventas Entities contained herein and the statements in any certificates furnished by the Ventas Entities delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, as of each Additional Closing Time, shall be true and correct and, at the relevant Additional Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received
Conditions to Underwriters' Purchase of Option Securities
(i) The favorable opinion of (A) T. Richard Riney, general counsel for the Ventas Entities; (B) Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, as counsel for the Ventas Entities; and (C) Greenberg Traurig, LLP, as regulatory counsel for the Ventas Entities, in each case, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Additional Closing Time, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased at such Additional Closing Time and otherwise to the same effect as the opinions required pursuant to Section 5(d) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Company.
(ii) The favorable opinion, dated as of the Additional Closing Time, of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased at such Additional Closing Time and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required pursuant to Section 5(e) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
(iii) 'A certificate of the Chief Executive Officer and President of Ventas and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of Ventas, dated as of the Additional Closing Time, confirming that the certificate delivered at the Closing Time pursuant to Section 5(f) hereof remains true and correct as of such Additional Closing Time.
Officers
Certificate.
(iv) A letter from Ernst & Young LLP, dated as of the Additional Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to Section 5(g) hereof, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Additional Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter.
(p) If any condition specified in this Section 5(p) shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Underwriters by notice to the Ventas Entities at any time at or prior to Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 hereof shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement.
 
SECTION 6. .
Indemnification and Contribution
(a) . Each of the Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Underwriters and each person, if any, who controls the Underwriters within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act, the agents, employees, officers and directors of the Underwriters and the agents, employees, officers and directors of any such controlling person as follows:
Indemnification of the Underwriters by the Ventas Entities
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of (a) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, including any information deemed to be a part thereof pursuant to Rule 430B or 430C under the 1933 Act, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (b) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; that (subject to Section 6(d) hereof) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of Ventas; and
provided
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Underwriters), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with the Underwriter Information. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Ventas Entities may otherwise have, including, but not limited to, liability under this Agreement.
provided
however
 
(b) Each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Ventas Entities, each person, if any, who controls any Ventas Entity within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act and each of their respective agents, employees, officers and directors and the agents, employees, officers and directors of any such controlling person against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 6(a) hereof, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions relating to such Underwriter, made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with the information furnished by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus; that, with respect to the preceding sentence, the Ventas Entities acknowledge that the only information furnished in writing by the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus is the statements contained in the fifth, thirteenth and fourteenth paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus (the "").
Indemnification of Ventas Entities, Directors and Officers.
provided
Underwriter Information
(c) Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder, except to the extent it is materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) hereof, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, subject to the reasonable approval of the indemnifying party, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) hereof, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by Ventas, subject to the reasonable approval of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party; , if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 6 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party (or by the Representatives in the case of Section 6(f)),  representing the indemnified parties who
Actions Against Parties; Notification.
provided
however
provided further
 
are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could reasonably be sought under this Section 6 (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d) If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(ii) hereof effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement; that an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any such settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (1) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (2) provides written notice to the indemnified party substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement Without Consent if Failure to Reimburse.
provided
(e) The provisions of this Section 6(e) shall not affect any agreement between the Ventas Entities with respect to indemnification.
Other Agreements with Respect to Indemnification.
(f) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section 6 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Ventas Entities on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Ventas Entities on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
 
The relative benefits received by the Ventas Entities on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Issuer and the total discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth in this Agreement, bear to the aggregate initial offering price of the Securities as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus.
The relative fault of the Ventas Entities, on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Ventas Entities or the Underwriter Information and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Ventas Entities and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6(f) were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 6(f). The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 6(f) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6(f), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities purchased by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 6(f) shall be several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
For purposes of this Section 6(f), each officer and director of each of the Underwriters, and each person, if any, who controls the Underwriters within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Underwriters, and each officer and director of any Ventas Entity, and each person, if any, who controls any Ventas Entity within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20(a) of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Ventas Entity.
 
The provisions of this Section 6(f) shall not affect any agreement among the Ventas Entities with respect to contribution.
SECTION 7. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Ventas Entities or any of the Subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Underwriters or controlling person, or by or on behalf of Ventas, and shall survive delivery of the Securities to the Underwriters.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
SECTION 8. .
Termination of Agreement
(a) The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to Ventas, at any time at or prior to the Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the Execution Time or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), any material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or other), results of operations, performance, properties or business prospects of Ventas and the Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or in the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities in the manner and on the terms described in the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Ventas Entities has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, FINRA or any other governmental authority, or a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (iv) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General.
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 8(b), such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6 and 7 hereof shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
SECTION 9. . If the Issuer shall fail at the Closing Time to sell the number of Securities that it is obligated to sell hereunder, then this Agreement shall terminate without any liability on the part of any non-defaulting party; , , that the provisions of Sections 1, 4, 6 and 7 hereof shall remain in full force and effect. No action taken pursuant to this Section 9 shall relieve the Issuer from liability, if any, in respect of such default.
Default by the Issuer
provided
however
 
SECTION 10. . (a) If, at the Closing Time or an Additional Closing Time, any Underwriter defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, and the aggregate number of Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate number of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the number of Securities set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate number of Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters to purchase the Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase the Securities and the aggregate number of the Securities with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate number of Securities to be purchased at the Closing Time, and arrangements satisfactory to the Underwriters and Ventas for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party (other than the defaulting Underwriters) except that the provisions of Sections 3, 4, and 6 hereof shall at all times be effective and shall survive termination. In any such case, either the Underwriters or Ventas shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected. As used in this Agreement, the term "" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
Underwriter
SECTION 11. . Each of the Ventas Entities acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Ventas Entities on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Ventas Entities are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby the Underwriters are and have been acting solely as principals and are not the agents or fiduciaries of the Ventas Entities or their respective affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) the Underwriters have not assumed and will not assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Ventas Entities with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (irrespective of whether the Underwriters have advised or are currently advising the Ventas Entities on other matters) or any other obligation to the Ventas Entities with respect to such transactions except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Ventas Entities; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Ventas Entities have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Ventas Entities and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Ventas Entities hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Ventas Entities may have against the Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, at 4 World Financial Center, North Tower, New York, New York 10080, attention: General Counsel, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., at 388 Greenwich St., New York, New York 10013, attention: General Counsel, and UBS Investment Bank, 299 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10171, attention: General Counsel, with a copy to Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, 80 Pine St., New York, New York 10005, attention: William M. Hartnett and Ann Makich; and notices to the Ventas Entities shall be directed to Ventas at 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, attention: T. Richard Riney, General Counsel, with a copy to Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, attention: David Boston.
Notices
SECTION 13. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Ventas Entities and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Ventas Entities and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Section 6 hereof and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Ventas Entities and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
SECTION 14. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
GOVERNING LAW AND TIME
SECTION 15. . Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby ("") may be instituted in the federal courts of the United States of America located in the City and County of New York or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City and County of New York (collectively, the ""), and each party irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail to such party's address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court. The parties irrevocably and
Submission to Jurisdiction
Related Proceedings
Specified Courts
 
unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. The Ventas Entities hereby irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
SECTION 16. . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
SECTION 17. . For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act; (b) the term "" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; and (c) the term "" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act.
Certain Defined Terms
affiliate
business day
Subsidiary
SECTION 18. Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Underwriters. Any action by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated in the case of those matters as to which it has sole authority may be taken by it on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by it on such matters shall be binding upon the Underwriters.
Authority of the Representatives.
SECTION 19. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
SECTION 20. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to Ventas a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts (including via facsimile), will become a binding agreement between the Underwriters and the Ventas Entities in accordance with its terms.
 

Exhibit 1.2
April 7, 2009
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
UBS SECURITIES LLC
CALYON SECURITIES (USA) INC.
BMO CAPITAL MARKETS CORP.
KEYBANC CAPITAL MARKETS INC.
    As Underwriters
c/o Banc of America Securities LLC
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), Ventas Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Operating Partnership ("," and together with the Operating Partnership, the "Issuers"), Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("") and Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (""), agree with the underwriters listed in hereto (the ""), for whom Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and UBS Securities LLC are acting as representatives (the "") as set forth herein. The Operating Partnership is wholly-owned, directly and indirectly through LLC, by Ventas. The Operating Partnership, Capital Corp, Ventas and LLC are referred to herein sometimes individually as a "Ventas Entity" and collectively as the "."
Capital Corp
Ventas
LLC
Schedule A
Underwriters
Representatives
Ventas Entities
The Issuers propose to issue and sell to the Underwriters $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 (the ""). The Notes will be issued under an indenture dated as of September 19, 2006, as supplemented by a second supplemental indenture (the ""), among the Issuers, Ventas, the guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). The Issuers' obligations under the Notes and the Indenture will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally (the ""), at the Closing Time (as defined in Section 2(b) hereof), by Ventas and its direct or indirect subsidiaries identified as guarantors on hereto (Ventas, together with such direct and indirect subsidiaries, the ""). All references herein to the Notes include the related guarantees, unless the context otherwise requires.
Notes
Indenture
Trustee
Guarantees
Schedule B
Guarantors
The Issuers hereby confirm their engagement of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. ("") as, and Citi hereby confirms its agreement with the Issuers to render services as, a "qualified independent underwriter", within the meaning of Section (b)(15) of NASD Conduct Rule 2720 of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("") with respect to the offering and sale of the Notes. Citi, solely in its capacity as the qualified independent underwriter and not otherwise, is referred to herein as the "". The price at which the Notes will be sold to the public shall not be higher than the maximum price recommended by the QIU.
Citi
FINRA
QIU
SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
(a) The Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, represent and warrant to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Applicable Time referred to in Section 1(a)(iv) hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(b) hereof and agree with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Ventas Entities.
(i) . The Ventas Entities and the Guarantors have prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-158424), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of the Notes. Such registration statement, as amended, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, at each time of effectiveness under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." Any preliminary prospectus supplement that describes the Notes and the offering thereof and is used prior to the filing of the Prospectus is hereafter called, together with the Base Prospectus, a "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto (the ""), together with the Base Prospectus. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act; any reference to any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after the date of such Registration Statement, such Base Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and incorporated by reference in such Registration Statement, such Base Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus, as the case may be.
Registration Statement
Commission
Base Prospectus
Securities Act
Registration Statement
preliminary prospectus
Prospectus
Execution Time
Exchange Act
(ii) . The Registration Statement has become effective upon filing with the Commission under the Securities Act. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement is in effect, the Commission has not issued any order or notice preventing or suspending the use of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission.
Compliance with Registration Requirements
Each of the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus when filed complied in all material respects with the Securities Act and the rules thereunder. Each of the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, at each time of effectiveness and at the date hereof, complied and will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder (the "
Trust
"), and did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. The Indenture when filed complied in all material respects with the Trust Indenture Act and was duly qualified as an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act. The Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, as of its date, at the date hereof, at the time of any filing pursuant to Rule 424(b) and, at the Closing Time (as defined herein), did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The representations and warranties set forth in the two immediately preceding sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, or the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements thereto, made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Ventas Entities in writing by the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representatives consists of the Underwriter Information described as such in Section 6(b) hereof. There is no contract or other document required to be described in the Prospectus or to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement that has not been described or filed as required.
Indenture Act
The documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable,. Any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Prospectus or any further amendment or supplement thereto, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable.
(iii) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto, if applicable, for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus) or determining compliance under Rule 405 of the Securities Act, and (iii) at the time Ventas or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, Ventas was and is a "well-known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, and Ventas has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
(iv) . The term "" shall mean (i) the Base Prospectus and the preliminary prospectus, if any, as amended or supplemented, (ii) any issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in hereto, (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and (iv) the Final Term
Disclosure Package
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Schedule D
Sheet (as defined herein), which also shall be identified in Schedule D hereto. As of 10:15 a.m. (New York City time) on the date of this Agreement (the ""), the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to Ventas in writing by the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representatives consists of the Underwriter Information (as defined below).
Applicable Time
(v) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement relating to the Notes that the Issuers or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Securities Act) and (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto, if applicable, for the purposes of (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus) determining compliance under Rule 405 of the Securities Act, the Issuers were not and neither are an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that either Issuer be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Issuers Not Ineligible Issuers
bona fide
(vi) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that Ventas notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, Ventas has promptly notified and shall promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or shall promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished in writing to Ventas by the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Representatives consists of the Underwriter Information.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
(vii) . Ventas has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Time (as defined below) and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives or included in hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material by Ventas
Schedule D
(viii) . There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights
(ix) . Ventas has an authorized capitalization of 300,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.25 par value (the ""), and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $1.00 par value. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of Ventas have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and were not issued in violation of any preemptive or similar right. Attached as is a true and complete list identifying each subsidiary (as defined in the Securities Act) of Ventas as of the date hereof, its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation and its direct or indirect percentage equity ownership by Ventas (all such entities, the ""). All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each such Subsidiary have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and (except in the case of general partnership interests) nonassessable, were not issued in violation of any preemptive or similar right and, except as set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or on , are owned by Ventas, directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries, free and clear of all Liens other than Liens (i) that will be discharged at or prior to the Closing Time or (ii) that are described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and secure indebtedness described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Except as set forth on , there are no outstanding options, warrants or other rights to acquire or purchase, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock of any of the Significant Subsidiaries. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means any Subsidiary whose total assets or annualized revenues (when aggregated with those of its Subsidiaries) as of the date of this Agreement exceed 10% of the consolidated total assets or consolidated annualized revenues of Ventas and the Subsidiaries as of the date of this Agreement. "" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction.
Capitalization
Common Stock
Schedule B
Subsidiaries
Schedule B
Schedule B
Significant Subsidiary
Lien
(x) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Issuers and each of the Guarantors and, at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Issuers and each of the Guarantors and will be a legally binding and valid obligation of the Issuers and each of the Guarantors (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee), enforceable against the Issuers and each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought.
Authorization of Indenture
(xi) . The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Issuers are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Issuers for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture, and at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed by the Issuers and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered by the Issuers against payment by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, will be legally binding and valid obligations of the Issuers (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee and the due authorization and delivery of the Notes by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture), entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Issuers in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought.
Authorization of the Notes
(xii) . The Guarantees are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Guarantors and, at the Closing Time, will have been executed by each of the Guarantors and, when the Notes are authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered by the Issuers against payment by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Indenture, will be legally binding and valid obligations of Ventas and each other Guarantor, as the case may be (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee and the due authorization and delivery of the Notes by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture), enforceable against each of them in accordance with their terms, except that enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought.
Authorization of the Guarantees
(xiii) . Each of Ventas and its (a) Significant Subsidiaries is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or real estate investment trust duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) Subsidiaries has all requisite corporate, partnership, limited liability company or trust power and authority, and has all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals, necessary to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted, except where the failure to obtain any such license, authorization, consent and approval is not reasonably likely, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below) and (c) Subsidiaries is qualified to do business and is in good standing in all jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary except where failure to be so qualified and in good standing is not reasonably likely, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below). Each Ventas Entity and Guarantor has all requisite corporate, partnership, limited liability company or trust power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under this Agreement, the Notes and the Indenture (collectively, the "") to which it is a party and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby to be consummated on its part, including, without limitation, the authority to issue, sell and deliver the Notes and to execute, deliver and perform all its
Good Standing of Ventas and Its Subsidiaries; Power and Authority
Note Documents
obligations under the Guarantees. A "" means any material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or other), results of operations, performance or properties of Ventas and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
(xiv) . This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the Ventas Entities.
Authorization of this Agreement
(xv) . Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary is in violation of its charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents. Except as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, none of Ventas or any Subsidiary is (A) in default (or, with notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any bond, debenture, note, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, lease, license, franchise agreement, authorization, permit, certificate or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of their assets or properties is subject (collectively, "") or (B) in violation of any law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court with jurisdiction over any of them or any of their assets or properties or other governmental or regulatory authority, agency or other body, which, in the case of clauses (A) and (B), individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. There exists no condition that, with notice, the passage of time or otherwise, would constitute a default by Ventas or any Subsidiary under any such document or instrument or result in the imposition of any penalty or the acceleration of any indebtedness, other than penalties, defaults or conditions that, individually or in the aggregate, are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
Agreements and Instruments
(xvi) . None of the issuance, offer and sale of the Notes by the Issuers, the execution, delivery and performance of the Note Documents by the Ventas Entities and Guarantors, as applicable, or the consummation by the Ventas Entities and Guarantors, as applicable, of the transactions contemplated by the Note Documents and in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus violate or will violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or results in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge, or encumbrance on any property or assets of Ventas or any Subsidiary pursuant to, (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of Ventas or any Subsidiary, (ii) any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to Ventas or any Subsidiary or their respective assets or properties, (iii) any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over Ventas or any Subsidiary or their respective assets or properties or (iv) any Agreements or Instruments and except in the case of clauses (ii) and (iv), for such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults, liens, charges or encumbrances that, individually or in the aggregate, are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any court or governmental agency, body or administrative agency, domestic or foreign, is required to be obtained or made by Ventas or any Subsidiary for the execution, delivery and performance
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts upon Consummation of Offering
by the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors of the Note Documents to which they are a party, including the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby, except such as have been or will be obtained or made on or prior to the Closing Time, including, without limitation, such as may be required by the Securities Act, state securities laws, blue sky laws and FINRA.
(xvii) . Except as set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is no action, suit or proceeding before or by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, body or official, domestic or foreign, now pending or, to the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, threatened or contemplated, to which any of Ventas or any Subsidiary is or may be a party or to which the business, assets or property of such person is or may be subject, that is, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely (i) to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Note Documents and each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Except as set forth in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is (A) no statute, rule, regulation or order that has been enacted, adopted or issued or, to the knowledge of any Ventas Entity, that has been proposed by any governmental body or agency, domestic or foreign and (B) no injunction, restraining order or order of any nature by a federal or state court or foreign court of competent jurisdiction to which Ventas or any Subsidiary is or may be subject that in the case of clauses (A) and (B), is, individually or in the aggregate, (x) reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (y) reasonably likely to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Note Documents. Every request of any securities authority or agency of any jurisdiction for additional information with respect to the Notes that has been received by Ventas or any Subsidiary or their counsel prior to the date hereof has been, or will prior to the Closing Time be, complied with in all material respects.
Absence of Proceedings
(xviii) . Ventas is subject to and in compliance in all material respects with the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Exchange Act Compliance
(xix) . Except as is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, no labor disturbance by the employees of Ventas or any Subsidiary exists or, to the knowledge of any Ventas Entity, is imminent. None of the Ventas Entities is aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. which may reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
(xx) . Except as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, Ventas and each Subsidiary (A) is in compliance with, or not subject to costs or liabilities under, laws, regulations, rules of common law, orders and decrees, as in effect as of the date hereof, and any present judgments and injunctions issued or promulgated thereunder relating to pollution or protection of public and employee health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants applicable to it or its business or operations or ownership or use of its property
Environmental Laws
(""), other than noncompliance or such costs or liabilities that are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (B) possesses all permits, licenses or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws, except where the failure to possess any such permit, license or other approval is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. All currently pending and, to the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, threatened proceedings, notices of violation, demands, notices of potential responsibility or liability, suits and existing environmental conditions by any governmental authority to which any of the Ventas Entities is subject that are reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect are fully and accurately described in all material respects in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Environmental Laws
(xxi) . Ventas and each Subsidiary has (A) all licenses, certificates, permits, authorizations, approvals, franchises and other rights from, and has made all declarations and filings with, all applicable authorities, all self-regulatory authorities and all courts and other tribunals (each, an "") necessary to engage in the business conducted by it in the manner described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except where failure to hold such Authorizations is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (B) no knowledge that any governmental body or agency, domestic or foreign, is considering limiting, suspending or revoking any such Authorization, except where any such limitations, suspensions or revocations are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. All such Authorizations are valid and in full force and effect, and Ventas and each Subsidiary is in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Authorizations and with the rules and regulations of the regulatory authorities having jurisdiction with respect to such Authorizations, except for any invalidity, failure to be in full force and effect or noncompliance with any Authorization that is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
Authorization
(xxii) . Ventas and each Subsidiary has good and marketable title in fee simple or a ground leasehold interest in all items of real property and good and marketable title to all personal property owned by each of them, in each case free and clear of all Liens, except (i) for Liens described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and (ii) to the extent that the failure to have such title or the presence of such Liens is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Any real property and buildings held under lease by Ventas or any Subsidiary are held under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases, except to the extent that the failure to so hold such real property and buildings is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Property
(xxiii) . Each of Ventas' and the Subsidiaries' leases, including the Master Leases (as defined below) has been duly authorized by one or more of Ventas and its Subsidiaries, as applicable, and is a valid and binding agreement of Ventas and/or any such Subsidiary, and, to the knowledge of Ventas and/or any such Subsidiary, each other party thereto, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency,
Authorization, etc. of Leases
reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought and except, with respect to Ventas' and the Subsidiaries' leases (other than the Master Leases), as would not individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, no lessee or sublessee of any portion of any of the properties owned or leased by Ventas and/or any Subsidiary is in default under its respective lease and there is no event which, but for the passage of time or the giving of notice or both, would constitute a default under any such lease, except as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and except for such defaults that are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. The term "" refers to the four second amended and restated master lease agreements, dated as of April 27, 2007, by and among the Operating Partnership and Kindred Healthcare Inc. and Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc.
Master Leases
(xxiv) . Commencing with Ventas' taxable year ended December 31, 1999, Ventas has been organized and has operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a real estate investment trust ("") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and Ventas' current and proposed method of operation will enable Ventas to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Code. ElderTrust is a "" within the meaning of Section 856(i)(2) of the Code.
Qualification as a REIT
REIT
Code
qualified REIT subsidiary
(xxv) . Each of Ventas and each Significant Subsidiary owns, possesses or has the right to employ all patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, service marks, trade names and other intellectual property (collectively, the "") necessary to conduct the businesses operated by it as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except where the failure to own, possess or have the right to employ such Intellectual Property is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. None of Ventas or any Subsidiary has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with (and neither knows of any such infringement or a conflict with) asserted rights of others with respect to any of the foregoing that, if such assertion of infringement or conflict were sustained, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of each of the Ventas Entities, the use of the Intellectual Property in connection with the business and operations of Ventas and the Subsidiaries does not infringe on the rights of any person, except for such infringement as is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has received any notice of, and otherwise has no knowledge of, any threatened or existing action, suit, proceeding or claim by any person challenging use of the Intellectual Property by Ventas and the Subsidiaries.
Possession of Intellectual Property
Intellectual Property
(xxvi) . (A) All tax returns required to be filed by Ventas and each Subsidiary have been timely filed in all jurisdictions where such returns are required to be filed; (B) Ventas and each Subsidiary have paid all taxes, including, but not limited to, income, value added, property and franchise taxes, penalties and interest, assessments, fees and other charges due or claimed to be due from such entities or that are due and payable, other than those being contested in good
Tax Returns and Payment of Taxes
faith and for which reserves have been provided in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("") or those currently payable without penalty or interest; and (C) Ventas and each Subsidiary has complied with all withholding tax obligations except, in the case of any of clause (A), (B) or (C), where the failure to make such required filings, payments or withholdings is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, none of Ventas or any Subsidiary has knowledge of any material proposed additional tax assessments against Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries or their assets or property.
GAAP
(xxvii) . None of Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries has any liability for any prohibited transaction or accumulated funding deficiency (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code) or any complete or partial withdrawal liability with respect to any pension, profit sharing or other plan which is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), to which Ventas or any Subsidiary makes or ever has made a contribution and in which any employee of Ventas or any Subsidiary is or has ever been a participant. With respect to such plans, Ventas and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable provisions of ERISA.
Certain ERISA Matters
ERISA
(xxviii) . No Ventas Entity or any Guarantor is, nor upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated and any application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus will be, an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
1940 Act
(xxix) . Each of Ventas and each Subsidiary maintains or causes to be maintained by the lessee under the leases for its properties or by the manager of its properties insurance covering its properties (including title to its properties), assets, operations, personnel and businesses, and such insurance is of such type and in such amounts in accordance with customary industry practice and in Ventas' reasonable judgment sufficient to protect Ventas and the Subsidiaries and their businesses.
Insurance for Properties
(xxx) . Ventas maintains effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in the Exchange Act. Each of Ventas and each Subsidiary maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that: (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of its financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Accounting and Other Controls
(xxxi) . Except as disclosed in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or in any document incorporated by reference therein, since the end of Ventas' most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in Ventas' internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in Ventas' internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Ventas' internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls
(xxxii) . As of December 31, 2008, neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has incurred any material liabilities or obligations, direct or contingent, that were not set forth in Ventas' consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008, or in the notes thereto, incorporated by reference in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, or otherwise described therein, other than the performance by Ventas and each Subsidiary of their respective obligations under ordinary course executory contracts that are not in default, that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and that are not required by GAAP, as modified by the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the ""), the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the ""), to be disclosed on a regularly prepared balance sheet or in the notes thereto. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in each of the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, (a) none of Ventas or any Subsidiary has (1) incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (2) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (b) there has not been any event or development in respect of the business or condition (financial or other) of Ventas and the Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) there has not been any change in the long-term debt of Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries or in the authorized capitalization of Ventas.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
Securities Act Regulations
Exchange Act Regulations
(xxxiii) . Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary (or any agent thereof acting on its behalf other than the Underwriters, as to whom Ventas makes no representation or warranty) has taken, and none of them will take, any action that would cause this Agreement or the issuance or sale of the Notes to violate Section 7 of the Exchange Act or Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect, or as the same may hereafter be in effect, at the Closing Time.
Section 7 of the Exchange Act or Regulations T, U, X
(xxxiv) . Ernst & Young LLP is an independent public accountant with respect to Ventas, as required by the Securities Act, the Securities Act Regulations and the Exchange Act. The historical financial statements, together with the related financial schedules and notes thereto, included or incorporated by reference in each of the Base Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that relate to Ventas and the Subsidiaries present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position and results of operations of Ventas and the Subsidiaries at the respective dates and for the respective periods indicated. Such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods presented (except as disclosed in each of the Base Prospectus, the
Independent Accountants and Financial Statements
Disclosure Package and the Prospectus). The supporting schedules of Ventas and the Subsidiaries, if any, included or incorporated by reference in each of the Base Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that relate to Ventas and the Subsidiaries present fairly in all material respects in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein and comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Securities Act. The other financial and statistical information and data included or incorporated by reference in each of the Base Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus relating to Ventas and the Subsidiaries are accurately presented in all material respects and prepared on a basis consistent with the financial statements and the books and records of Ventas and the Subsidiaries. Other than the financial statements or supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Base Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, no other financial statements or supporting schedules are required to be included or incorporated by reference in the Base Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(xxxv) . Each of the Ventas Entities and ElderTrust is and will be, immediately following the issuance of the Notes at the Closing Time, Solvent (as defined below) and, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, each Guarantor will be, immediately following the issuance of its guarantee of the Notes, Solvent. None of the Ventas Entities or ElderTrust is contemplating either the filing of a petition by it under any bankruptcy or insolvency laws or the liquidating of all or a substantial portion of its property, and none of the Ventas Entities or ElderTrust has knowledge of any person contemplating the filing of any such petition against any of the Ventas Entities or ElderTrust. As used herein, "" shall mean, for any person on a particular date, that on such date (a) the fair value of the property of such person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent liabilities, of such person, (b) the present fair salable value of the assets of such person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such person on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) such person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts and liabilities beyond such person's ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature, (d) such person is not engaged in a business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in a business or a transaction, for which such person's property would constitute an unreasonably small capital and (e) such person is able to pay its debts as they become due and payable.
Solvency
Solvent
(xxxvi) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, including, but not limited to, the most recent Annual Report of Ventas on Form 10-K filed with the Commission, as amended by Ventas' Annual Report on Form 10-K/A, filed with the Commission on March 31, 2009 (the ""), each Current Report of Ventas on Form 8-K filed with the Commission since the end of the fiscal year to which such Annual Report relates, and Ventas' Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, prior to the Execution Time, when they became effective or at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission (the ""), complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Securities Act Regulations or the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Regulations, as applicable, and, when read together with the other information in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, at the Applicable Time and at the Closing Time, do not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
Annual Report
Incorporated Documents
(xxxvii) . None of Ventas or any Subsidiary or, to the best of its knowledge, any of their directors, officers or affiliates has taken or will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to, or that would be reasonably be expected to, cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Notes to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Stabilization or Manipulation
(xxxviii) . Except as described in the section of the preliminary prospectus and Prospectus entitled "Underwriting," there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between Ventas or any Significant Subsidiary and any other person that would give rise to a valid claim against Ventas, any Significant Subsidiary or the Underwriters for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or like payment in connection with the issuance, purchase and sale of the Notes.
Distribution
(xxxix) . All (A) statistical and market-related data and (B) data (including financial information) with respect to Kindred Healthcare Inc., Brookdale Senior Living Inc. or Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. included in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus are based on or derived from sources that the Ventas Entities reasonably believe to be accurate in all material respects or represent the Ventas Entities' good faith estimates that are made on the basis of data derived from sources the Ventas Entities reasonably believe to be reliable and accurate in all material respects.
Statistical and Other Data
(xl) . As of the Closing Time there will exist no event or condition which would constitute a default or an event of default under any of the Note Documents. The Note Documents will conform in all material respects to the respective statements relating thereto contained in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
No Default Under Note Documents, Etc
(xli) . Ventas is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
(b) 'Any certificate signed by any officer of any Ventas Entity or any Subsidiary addressed and delivered to the Underwriters or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Ventas Entities to the Underwriters as to the matters covered thereby. The Ventas Entities acknowledge that the Underwriters and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to the Underwriters pursuant to Section 5 hereof, counsel to the Ventas Entities and counsel to the Underwriters will rely upon the accuracy of the foregoing representations, and the Ventas Entities hereby consent to such reliance.
Officer
s Certificates.
SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to the Underwriters; Closing; Representations and Warranties and Covenants of the Underwriters
(a) Delivery of the Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Cahill Gordon & Reindel (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Ventas Entities and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m. New York time, on April 13, 2009, or such other time and date, as the Representatives and the Ventas Entities shall agree
Purchase and Sale.
LLP
(the time and date of such closing are called the ""). On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Issuers the respective aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on . The purchase price per Note to be paid by the several Underwriters to the Company shall be equal to 83.0% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, from December 1, 2008 to the Closing Time.
Closing Time
Schedule A
(b) . The Representatives hereby advise the Ventas Entities that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after this Agreement has been executed, and the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes
(c) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Time by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Ventas Entities. It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own account and the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes.
Payment for the Notes.
(d) Delivery of the Notes shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ("") unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct.
Delivery of the Notes.
DTC
(e) . Not later than 10:00 a.m. on the second business day following the date the Notes are first released by the Underwriters for sale to the public, to the extent required, the Ventas Entities shall deliver or cause to be delivered, copies of the Prospectus in such quantities and at such places as the Representatives shall reasonably request.
Delivery of Prospectus to the Underwriters
SECTION 3. . The Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, covenant with the Underwriters and, as applicable, the Underwriters covenant with the Ventas Entities as follows:
Covenants of the Ventas Entities and of the Underwriters
(a) During the period beginning on the Applicable Time and ending on the later of the Closing Time or such date, as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 (the ""), prior to amending or supplementing the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, the Ventas Entities shall furnish to the Representatives for review a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement, and the Ventas Entities shall not file or use any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object within a reasonable time.
Representatives' Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements.
Prospectus Delivery Period
(b) After the date of this Agreement, the Ventas Entities shall promptly advise the Representatives in writing (i) when the Registration Statement, if not effective at the Execution Time, shall have become
Securities Act Compliance.
effective, (ii) of the receipt of any comments of, or requests for additional or supplemental information from, the Commission, (iii) of the time and date of any filing of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, (iv) of the time and date that any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement becomes effective, and (v) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order or notice preventing or suspending the use of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or of any receipt by the Ventas Entities of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for sale in any jurisdiction or of the threatening or initiation of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Ventas Entities shall use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or notice of prevention or suspension of such use. If the Commission shall enter any such stop order or issue any such notice at any time, the Ventas Entities will use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the lifting or reversal of such order or notice at the earliest practicable moment, or, subject to Section 3(a) hereof, will file an amendment to the Registration Statement or will file a new registration statement and use its reasonable best efforts to have such amendment or new registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable. Additionally, the Ventas Entities agree that they shall comply with the provisions of Rules 424(b) and 430B, as applicable, under the Securities Act, including with respect to the timely filing of documents thereunder.
(c) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Ventas Entities will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15 of the Exchange Act in the manner and within the time periods required by the Exchange Act;
Exchange Act Compliance.
(d) The Ventas Entities will prepare a final term sheet containing solely a description of the Notes, including the price at which the Notes are to be sold to the public, in a form attached hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "").
Final Term Sheet.
Final Term Sheet
(e) The Ventas Entities represent, jointly and severally, that they have not made, and agree that, unless they obtain the prior written consent of the Representatives, they will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that constitutes or would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that otherwise constitutes or would constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) or a portion thereof required to be filed by the Ventas Entities with the Commission or retained by the Ventas Entities under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; that the prior written consent of the Representatives hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in hereto and any electronic road show. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Ventas Entities agree that (i) they have treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) they have complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses.
provided
Schedule D
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Ventas Entities consent to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Ventas Entities contemplated in Section 1(iv) hereof, or (iii) information permitted under Rule 134 under the Securities Act; that each Underwriter severally covenants with the Ventas Entities not to take any action without the Ventas Entities' consent (which consent shall be confirmed in writing) that would result in the Ventas Entities being required to file with the Commission under Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of such Underwriter that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Ventas Entities thereunder, but for the action of the Underwriter.
provided
(f) If, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event or development shall occur or condition exist as a result of which the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading, or if in the reasonable judgment of the Ventas Entities or their counsel it is otherwise necessary to amend or supplement the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or to file a new registration statement containing the Prospectus, in order to comply with applicable law, including in connection with the delivery of the Prospectus, the Ventas Entities agree to (i) notify the Representatives of any such event or condition and (ii) upon reasonable notice to the Representatives, promptly prepare (subject to Section 3(a) and 3(e) hereof), file with the Commission (and use their reasonable best efforts to have any amendment to the Registration Statement or any new registration statement to be declared effective) and furnish at their own expense to the Underwriters and to dealers, amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, or any new registration statement, necessary in order to make the statements in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or then prevailing, as the case may be, not misleading or so that the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with applicable law.
Amendments and Supplements to the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus and Other Securities Act Matters.
(g) The Ventas Entities will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters signed copies of the Registration Statement (including exhibits thereto) and, so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be required by the Securities Act, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus,
Copies of the Registration Statements and the Prospectus.
the Prospectus and any amendments and supplements thereto (including any documents incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference therein) and the Disclosure Package as the Representatives may reasonably request.
(h) The Ventas Entities agree to use their reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Notes for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Underwriters may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes; , , that the Ventas Entities shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which they are not so qualified or to subject themselves to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which they are not otherwise so subject. In each jurisdiction in which the Notes have been so qualified, the Ventas Entities will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes.
Blue Sky Qualifications.
provided
however
(i) . Without the prior written consent of Banc of America Securities LLC, the Ventas Entities will not, during the period ending 45 days after the date of the Offering Memorandum, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase, lend or otherwise transfer or dispose of, directly or indirectly, any non-convertible debt securities of the Ventas Entities or any Subsidiary (other than as contemplated by this Agreement).
Clear Market
(j) . To use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes in the manner described in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
(k) During the Prospectus Delivery Period Ventas shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
(l) The Ventas Entities agree to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) of the Securities Act without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees.
(m) The Ventas Entities will use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the approval of the Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer and agree to comply with all of their agreements set forth in its representation letters relating to the approval of the Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer.
DTC.
(n) . The Indenture shall have been executed and delivered by the parties thereto, and the Underwriters shall have received copies, conformed as executed, thereof.
Indenture
(o) The Ventas Entities shall deliver to the Underwriters a true and correct copy of each of the Note Documents, together with all related agreements and all schedules and exhibits thereto.
Delivery of Note Documents.
SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
(a) The Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, will pay all costs, fees and expenses incident to the performance of their obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, notarization (if necessary), and delivery to the Underwriters of the Note Documents, and such other documents as may be reasonably required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Notes, (ii) the issuance, transfer and delivery of the Notes and the Guarantees to the Underwriters, including any transfer taxes and any stamp or other duties payable upon the sale, issuance or delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters, (iii) the fees and disbursements of the Ventas Entities' and the Guarantors' counsel, accountants and other advisors, (iv) the qualification of the Notes under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(h) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplements thereto ( that the Ventas Entities will only be responsible for paying costs, fees and expenses incurred under this clause (iv) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000), (v) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of such copies of the Disclosure Package and Prospectus (including financial statements and exhibits) and any amendments or supplements thereto, as may be reasonably requested for use in connection with the offering, (vi) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of a reasonable number of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto (not to exceed $10,000), (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) the approval of the Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer, (ix) the rating of the Notes by rating agencies, (x) the performance by the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors of their other obligations under the Note Documents (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement.
Expenses.
provided
(b) If this Agreement is terminated by the Underwriters in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9(a)(i) hereof, the Ventas Entities agree to reimburse the Underwriters for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) for the Underwriters in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
Termination of Agreement.
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Ventas Entities contained in Section 1 hereof and in certificates of any officer of any Ventas Entity or any Subsidiary delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Ventas Entities of their covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of the Underwriters' Obligations
(a) For the period from and after effectiveness of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Time and, with respect to the Notes:
Compliance with Registration Requirements; No Stop Order; No Objection from FINRA.
(i) Ventas shall have filed the Prospectus with the Commission (including the information required by Rule 430A under the Securities Act) in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act;
(ii) The Final Term Sheet, and any other material required to be filed by Ventas pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings under such Rule 433;
(iii) No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement, shall be in effect and no proceedings for such purpose shall have been instituted or threatened by the Commission; and Ventas shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form; and
(iv) FINRA shall have raised no objection to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
(b) . No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any governmental agency or authority that would, as of the Closing Time, prevent the issuance of the Notes; except as disclosed in each of the Disclosure Package and Prospectus, no action, suit or proceeding shall have been commenced and be pending against or affecting or, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, threatened against any Ventas Entity before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official that is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes or the Guarantees in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Note Documents; and no stop order preventing the use of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto shall be in effect.
No Proceedings
(c) .
No Material Liabilities, Events
(i) Since December 31, 2008, none of Ventas or any Subsidiary shall have had any material liabilities or obligations, direct or, contingent, that were not set forth in Ventas' consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 or in the notes thereto, incorporated by reference in the Base Prospectus, the preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus or otherwise described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, other than the performance by Ventas of its obligations under ordinary course executory contracts that are not in default, that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and that are not required by GAAP, as modified by the Securities Act, Securities Act Regulations, the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Regulations, to be disclosed on a regularly prepared balance sheet or in the notes thereto. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in each of the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except as
otherwise stated therein, (a) none of Ventas or any Subsidiary shall have (1) incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (2) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (b) there shall not been any event or development in respect of the business or condition (financial or other) of Ventas and the Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) there shall not have been any change in the long-term debt of Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries or in the authorized capitalization of Ventas; and
(ii) There shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of (x) any intended or potential downgrading or (y) of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in each case, in the rating accorded any securities of Ventas or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
(d) At Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of:
Opinion of Counsel for Company.
(i) T. Richard Riney, general counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-1 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request;
(ii) Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, as counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibits A-2 and A-3 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request;
(iii) Venable LLP, or such other Maryland counsel reasonably acceptable to the Underwriters, as counsel for ElderTrust, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-4 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request; and
(iv) Greenberg Traurig, LLP, as regulatory counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-5 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Underwriters may reasonably request.
(e) At the Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, and negative assurance letter, dated as of the Closing Time, of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, counsel for the Underwriters in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
(f) 'At the Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, any material adverse change in the business, condition, financial or otherwise, results of operations, performance or properties of Ventas and the Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Underwriters shall have received a certificate of the Chief Executive Officer and President of Ventas and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of Ventas, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties of the Ventas Entities in Section 1(a) hereof and the provisions in Sections 5(a)(i)-(iii) and, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, 5(c)(ii) hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, and (iii) the Ventas Entities have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time.
Officers
Certificate.
(g) ' At the Applicable Time, the Underwriters shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, a letter, dated such date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Underwriters containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements of Ventas and the Subsidiaries and certain financial information contained in the Disclosure Package.
Accountant
s Comfort Letter.
(h) At the Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to Section 5(g) hereof, except that (i) it shall cover the financial information in the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus and (ii) the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter.
(i) . The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Time satisfactory evidence of the good standing of Ventas and its Significant Subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as set forth in hereto, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication, from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
Good Standing
Schedule C
(j) The Notes and the Indenture shall be executed by Ventas, or the Guarantors, as the case may be, in substantially the form previously delivered to the Underwriters.
Notes and Indenture.
(k) At Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Ventas Entities in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Underwriters and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents.
(l) If any condition specified in this Section 5(l) shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Underwriters by notice to the Ventas Entities at any time at or prior to Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 hereof shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement.
SECTION 6. .
Indemnification
(a) . Each of the Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Underwriters and each person, if any, who controls the Underwriters within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, the agents, employees, officers and directors of the Underwriters and the agents, employees, officers and directors of any such controlling person as follows:
Indemnification of the Underwriters by the Ventas Entities
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of (a) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, including any information deemed to be a part thereof pursuant to Rule 430B or 430C under the Securities Act, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (b) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact, in each case, necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; that (subject to Section 6(c) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of Ventas; and
provided
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Underwriters), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with the Underwriter Information. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Ventas Entities may otherwise have, including, but not limited to, liability under this Agreement.
provided
however
(b) Each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Ventas Entities, each person, if any, who controls any Ventas Entity within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act and each of their respective agents, employees, officers and directors and the agents, employees, officers and directors of any such controlling person against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 6(a) hereof, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions relating to such Underwriter, made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with the information furnished by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus; that, with respect to the preceding sentence, the Ventas Entities acknowledge that the only information furnished in writing by the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus is the statements contained in the fourth paragraph and the eighth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus (the "").
Indemnification of Ventas Entities, Directors and Officers.
provided
Underwriter Information
(c) Without limitation and in addition to its obligation under the other subsections of this Section 6, each of the Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the QIU, its officers and employees and each person, if any, who controls the QIU within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act from and against any loss, claim, damage, liabilities or expense, as incurred, arising out of or based upon the QIU's acting as a "qualified independent underwriter" (within the meaning of Rule 2720 to the NASD's Conduct Rules of FINRA) in connection with the offering contemplated by this Agreement, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified person for any legal or other expense reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the Ventas Entities shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense results from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the QIU.
Indemnification of the QIU.
provided, however
(d) Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder, except to the extent it is materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) hereof, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, subject to the reasonable approval of the indemnifying party, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) hereof, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by Ventas, subject to the
Actions Against Parties; Notification.
reasonable approval of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party; , if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 6 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel), reasonably approved by the indemnifying party (or by the Representatives in the case this Section 6), representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could reasonably be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
provided
however
provided
further
(e) If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(ii) hereof effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement; , that an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any such settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (1) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (2) provides written notice to the indemnified party substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement Without Consent if Failure to Reimburse.
provided
(f) The provisions of this Section 6 shall not affect any agreement between the Ventas Entities with respect to indemnification.
Other Agreements With Respect to Indemnification.
SECTION 7. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Ventas Entities on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Ventas Entities on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
The relative benefits received by the Ventas Entities on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Issuers and the total discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth in this Agreement, bear to the aggregate initial offering price of the Notes as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus.
The relative fault of the Ventas Entities, on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Ventas Entities or the Underwriter Information and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Ventas Entities and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes purchased by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the
amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 shall be several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
For purposes of this Section 7, each officer and director of each of the Underwriters, and each person, if any, who controls the Underwriters within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Underwriters, and each officer and director of any Ventas Entity, and each person, if any, who controls any Ventas Entity within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Ventas Entity.
The provisions of this Section 7 shall not affect any agreement among the Ventas Entities with respect to contribution.
SECTION 8. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Ventas Entities or any of the Subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Underwriters, the QIU or controlling person, or by or on behalf of Ventas, and shall survive delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
SECTION 9. .
Termination of Agreement
(a) The Underwriters may terminate this Agreement, by notice to Ventas, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or Prospectus (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), any material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or other), results of operations, performance, properties or business prospects of Ventas and the Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or in the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Underwriters, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Notes, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Ventas Entities has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have
Termination; General.
been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, FINRA or any other governmental authority, or a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (iv) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
(b) If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 9(b), such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 hereof shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities.
SECTION 10. . If any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder at the Closing Time, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their respective names on bears to the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Underwriters with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase the Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes and the aggregate principal amount of Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased at the Closing Time, and arrangements satisfactory to the Underwriters and the Issuers for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party (other than defaulting Underwriters) except that the provisions of Sections 3, 4, 6 and 7 hereof shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Underwriters or the Issuers shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Disclosure Package or Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
Schedule A
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
SECTION 11. . Each of the Ventas Entities acknowledges and agrees on its behalf and on behalf of the Guarantors that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Ventas Entities, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Ventas Entities are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby the Underwriters are and have been acting solely as principals and are not the agents or fiduciaries of the Ventas Entities or their respective affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) the Underwriters have not assumed and will not assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Ventas Entities or
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
any of the Guarantors with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (irrespective of whether the Underwriters have advised or are currently advising the Ventas Entities or any of the Guarantors on other matters) or any other obligation to the Ventas Entities or any of the Guarantors with respect to such transactions except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate.
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Ventas Entities, the Guarantors and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Ventas Entities hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors may have against the Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to Banc of America Securities LLC, One Bryant Park, New York, New York 10036, (fax: (212) 901-7897, attention of Legal Department), Citigroup Global Markets Inc., at 388 Greenwich St., New York, New York 10013, attention: General Counsel, and UBS Investment Bank, 677 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901, attention: Fixed Income Syndicate, with a copy to Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, 80 Pine Street, New York, New York 10005, attention: James Clark; and notices to the Ventas Entities shall be directed to Ventas at 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, attention: T. Richard Riney, General Counsel, with a copy to Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, attention: David Boston.
Notices
SECTION 13. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters and the Ventas Entities and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Ventas Entities and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 hereof and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Ventas Entities and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Notes from the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
SECTION 14. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
GOVERNING LAW AND TIME
SECTION 15. . Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby ("") may be instituted in the federal courts of the United States of America located in the City and County of New York or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City and County of New York (collectively, the ""), and each party irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail to such party's address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. The Ventas Entities hereby irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Submission to Jurisdiction
Related Proceedings
Specified Courts
SECTION 16. . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
SECTION 17. . For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act; (b) the term "" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; and (c) the term "" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act.
Certain Defined Terms
affiliate
business day
Subsidiary
SECTION 18. Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Underwriters. Any action by Banc of America Securities LLC in the case of those matters as to which it has sole authority may be taken by it on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by it on such matters shall be binding upon the Underwriters.
Authority of the Representatives.
SECTION 19. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
SECTION 20. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to Ventas a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts (including via facsimile), will become a binding agreement between the Underwriters and the Ventas Entities in accordance with its terms.
 

Exhibit 5.1
April 7, 2009
Ventas, Inc.
111 South Wacker Drive, Suite 4800
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Re: Offering of Common Stock
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the offer and sale of 12,750,000 shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.25 per share, and up to an additional 1,912,500 shares in connection with the underwriters' over-allotment option (collectively, the ""), pursuant to that certain Underwriting Agreement, dated April 7, 2009, by and among the Company, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., UBS Securities LLC, Calyon Securities (USA) Inc., BMO Capital Markets Corp. and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. (the ""). The Shares are being offered pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""). This opinion is being delivered in connection with (i) that certain Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-158424), as amended, originally filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on April 6, 2009, which became automatically effective upon filing (the ""), and (ii) a Prospectus Supplement, dated April 7, 2009 (the ""), filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, which supplements the prospectus contained in the Registration Statement.
Company
Shares
Underwriting Agreement
Securities Act
Commission
Registration Statement
Prospectus Supplement
We have examined such documents as we have considered necessary for purposes of this opinion, including (i) the Registration Statement, (ii) the Prospectus Supplement, (iii) the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, the Third Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company, (iv) the Underwriting Agreement, and (v) such other documents and matters of law as we have deemed necessary in connection with the opinions hereinafter expressed.
In our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the capacity of each party (excluding the Company) executing a document to so execute that document, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of all copies submitted to us. As to various questions of fact material to our opinion, we have relied on statements and certificates of officers and representatives of the Company and public officials.
Ventas, Inc.
April 7, 2009
Page 2
 
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that:
 
 
This opinion is limited to the federal law of the United States, and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which includes the statutory provisions, applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting such provisions.
The opinions expressed herein are given as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update or supplement such opinions or views to reflect any fact or circumstance that may hereafter come to our attention or any change in law that may hereafter occur or hereinafter become effective.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K and to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we come within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 

Exhibit 5.2
April 7, 2009
Ventas, Inc., on behalf of the Registrants
111 South Wacker Drive, Suite 4800
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Re:    Offering of 6 
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (""), Ventas Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("" and, together with Ventas LP in their capacity as joint issuers, the "") and the subsidiary guarantors set forth on Schedule A hereto (the "" and, together with Ventas, Ventas LP and Ventas Capital, the ""), in connection with the sale by the Joint Issuers of an aggregate of $200,000,000 of the Joint Issuers' 6
Ventas
Ventas LP
Ventas Capital
Joint Issuers
Subsidiary Guarantors
Registrants
 1
/
2
% Senior Notes due 2016 (the ""), pursuant to that certain Underwriting Agreement, dated April 7, 2009, by and among the Joint Issuers, Ventas, Ventas Realty LP, LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., UBS Securities LLC, Calyon Securities (USA) Inc., BMO Capital Markets Corp. and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. (the ""). The Notes will be issued under an Indenture, dated as of September 19, 2006, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, to be dated as of April 13, 2009 (as supplemented, the ""), between Ventas, the Joint Issuers, the Subsidiary Guarantors and U.S. Bank, National Association, as trustee, and will be guaranteed by guarantees of Ventas and the Subsidiary Guarantors (the "") . The Notes are being offered pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""). This opinion is being delivered in connection with (i) that certain Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-158424), as amended, originally filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on April 6, 2009, which Registration Statement became automatically effective upon filing (the ""), and (ii) a Prospectus Supplement, dated April 7, 2009 (the ""), filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which supplements the prospectus contained in the Registration Statement.
Notes
Underwriting Agreement
Indenture
Guarantees
Securities Act
Commission
Registration Statement
Prospectus Supplement
We have examined such documents as we have considered necessary for purposes of this opinion, including (i) the Registration Statement, (ii) the Prospectus Supplement, (iii) the Indenture, (iii) the certified copies of respective certificates of incorporation (or equivalent), as amended, and by-laws (or equivalent) of Ventas and the Joint Issuers, (iv) the Underwriting Agreement, (v) the form
Ventas, Inc., on behalf of the Registrants
April 7, 2009
Page 2
 
of global certificate evidencing the Notes, (vi) the form of notation of the Guarantees and (vii) such other documents and matters of law as we have deemed necessary in connection with the opinions hereinafter expressed.
As to questions of fact material to the opinions expressed below, we have relied without independent check or verification upon certificates and comparable documents of public officials and officers and representatives of the Registrants and statements of fact contained in the documents we have examined. In our examination and in rendering our opinions contained herein, we have assumed (i) the genuineness of all signatures of all parties; (ii) the authenticity of all corporate records, documents, agreements, instruments and certificates submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents and agreements of all documents and agreements submitted to us as conformed, certified or photostatic copies; (iii) the due organization, valid existence and good standing of all parties (other than Ventas and the Joint Issuers) under all applicable laws; (iv) the legal right and power of all parties (other than Ventas and the Joint Issuers) under all applicable laws and regulations to enter into, execute and deliver such documents, agreements and instruments; (v) the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Registration Statement and due authorization of all documents, agreements and instruments (including the Indenture) by all parties thereto (other than Ventas and the Joint Issuers) and the binding effect of such documents, agreements and instruments on all parties (other than (a) Ventas and the Joint Issuers and (b) for purposes of the opinions set forth in paragraphs 1 and 3 with respect to enforceability against the Subsidiary Guarantors of the Indenture and the Guarantees under the laws of the State of New York, the Subsidiary Guarantors); (vi) that all consents, approvals and authorizations by any governmental authority required to be obtained by all parties (other than Ventas and the Joint Issuers) have been obtained by such parties; and (vii) the capacity of natural persons.
A. Based on the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that:
1. The Indenture has been duly authorized and, when duly executed and delivered, will constitute the valid and legally binding obligations of the Joint Issuers, Ventas and the Subsidiary Guarantors, enforceable against the Joint Issuers, Ventas and the Subsidiary Guarantors in accordance with the terms thereof.
2. The Notes have been duly authorized and, when they have been duly executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the underwriters in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Joint Issuers, enforceable against the Joint Issuers in accordance with the terms thereof, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
3. The Guarantees have been duly authorized and, when they have been duly endorsed, the Guarantees will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of Ventas and the Subsidiary Guarantors, enforceable against Ventas and the Subsidiary Guarantors in accordance with the terms thereof, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Ventas, Inc., on behalf of the Registrants
April 7, 2009
Page 3
 
B. The foregoing opinions are subject to the following assumptions, qualifications and exceptions:
1. The opinions expressed herein are limited to the laws of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (including the statutory provisions, all applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting the foregoing) and the Federal laws of the United States as in effect on the date of this opinion typically applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by this opinion and to the specific legal matters expressly addressed herein, and no opinion is expressed or implied with respect to the laws of any other jurisdiction or any legal matter not expressly addressed herein.
2. The opinions set forth above are qualified in that the legality or enforceability of the documents referred to therein may be (a) subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, (b) limited insofar as the remedies of specific performance and injunctive and other forms of equitable relief may be subject to equitable defenses and the discretion of the court before which any enforcement thereof may be sought, and (c) subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity) including principles of commercial reasonableness or conscionability and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Insofar as provisions of any of the documents referenced in this opinion letter provide for indemnification or contribution, the enforcement thereof may be limited by public policy considerations.
3. The opinions in paragraphs 1 and 3 are further qualified by the following assumptions with respect to the Subsidiary Guarantors: (a) the valid existence and good standing of such entities under applicable state laws, (b) that such entities have the corporate, partnership, limited liability company or other power and authority to own their property and carry on their business as now being conducted and to execute, deliver and perform all of their obligations under the Indenture and the Guarantees and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby and to be consummated on their part and (c) the due authorization, execution and delivery by such entities of the Indenture and the Guarantees. We have not independently investigated or verified the matters set forth in clauses (a) through (c) above and we express no views with respect to such matters.
4. We express no opinion as to provisions of the documents referenced in this opinion letter insofar as such provisions relate to (i) the subject matter jurisdiction of a United States Federal court to adjudicate any controversy relating to such documents, (ii) the waiver of inconvenient forum with respect to proceedings in any such United States Federal court, (iii) the waiver of right to a jury trial, (iv) the validity or enforceability under certain circumstances of provisions of the documents with respect to severability or any right of setoff or (v) limitations on the effectiveness of oral amendments, modifications, consents and waivers.
Ventas, Inc., on behalf of the Registrants
April 7, 2009
Page 4
 
5. This letter speaks only as of the date hereof and is limited to present statutes, regulations and administrative and judicial interpretations. We undertake no responsibility to update or supplement this letter after the date hereof.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to Ventas's Current Report on Form 8-K and to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we come within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act.
 
AL (AP) Holding LLC
AL (HCN) Holding LLC
AL (MT) Holding LLC
Allison Park Nominee LLC
Allison Park Nominee LP
BCC Altoona Realty GP, LLC
BCC Altoona Realty, LLC
BCC Altoona Realty, LP
BCC Berwick Realty GP, LLC
BCC Berwick Realty, LLC
BCC Berwick Realty, LP
BCC Lewistown Realty GP, LLC
BCC Lewistown Realty, LLC
BCC Lewistown Realty, LP
BCC Martinsburg Realty, LLC
BCC Medina Realty, LLC
BCC Ontario Realty, LLC
BCC Reading Realty GP, LLC
BCC Reading Realty, LLC
BCC Reading Realty, LP
BCC Shippensburg Realty, LLC
BCC State College Realty GP, LLC
BCC State College Realty, LLC
BCC State College Realty, LP
BCC Washington Township Realty, LLC
BLC of California-San Marcos, L.P.
Bloomsburg Nominee LLC
Bloomsburg Nominee LP
Brookdale Holdings, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of Arizona-EM, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of California, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of California-RC, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of California-San Marcos, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of Illinois-2960, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of Illinois-II, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of Massachusetts-RB, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of Minnesota, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of New York-GB, LLC
Brookdale Living Communities of Washington-PP, LLC
Chippewa Nominee LLC
Chippewa Nominee LP
Dillsburg Nominee LLC
Dillsburg Nominee LP
EC Halcyon Realty, LLC
EC Hamilton Place Realty, LLC
EC Lebanon Realty, LLC
EC Timberlin Parc Realty, LLC
ElderTrust
ET Berkshire, LLC
ET Capital Corp.
ET GENPAR, L.L.C.
ET Lehigh, LLC
ET Pennsburg Finance, L.L.C.
ET Sanatoga, LLC
ET Sub-Berkshire Limited Partnership
ET Sub-Heritage Woods, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Highgate, L.P.
ET Sub-Lacey I, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Lehigh Limited Partnership
ET Sub-Lopatcong, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Pennsburg Manor Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Sub-Phillipsburg I, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Pleasant View, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Rittenhouse Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Sub-Riverview Ridge Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Sub-Sanatoga Limited Partnership
ET Sub-SMOB, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Wayne I Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Sub-Willowbrook Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Sub-Woodbridge, L.P.
ET Wayne Finance, Inc.
ET Wayne Finance, L.L.C.
Hendersonville Nominee LLC
Hendersonville Nominee LP
IPC (AP) Holding LLC
IPC (HCN) Holding LLC
IPC (MT) Holding LLC
Kingsport Nominee LLC
Kingsport Nominee LP
Knoxville Nominee LLC
Knoxville Nominee LP
Lebanon Nominee LLC
Lebanon Nominee LP
Lewisburg Nominee LLC
Lewisburg Nominee LP
Lima Nominee LLC
Lima Nominee LP
Loyalsock Nominee LLC
 
Loyalsock Nominee LP
MAB Parent, LLC
PSLT GP, LLC
PSLT OP, L.P.
PSLT-ALS Properties Holdings, LLC
PSLT-ALS Properties I, LLC
PSLT-BLC Properties Holdings, LLC
River Oaks Partners
Sagamore Hills Nominee LLC
Sagamore Hills Nominee LP
Saxonburg Nominee LLC
Saxonburg Nominee LP
Shippensburg Realty Holdings, LLC
SZR Burlington Inc.
SZR Columbia, LLC
SZR Lincoln Park, LLC
SZR Markham Inc.
SZR Mississauga Inc.
SZR North Hills, LLC
SZR Norwood, LLC
SZR Oakville Inc.
SZR Richmond Hill Inc.
SZR Rockville, LLC
SZR San Mateo, LLC
SZR Scottsdale, LLC
SZR US Investments, Inc.
SZR US UPREIT Three, LLC
SZR Westlake Village LLC
SZR Willowbrook, LLC
SZR Windsor Inc.
SZR Yorba Linda, LLC
The Ponds of Pembroke Limited Partnership
United Rehab Realty Holding, LLC
Ventas Broadway MOB, LLC
Ventas Cal Sun LLC
Ventas Carroll MOB, LLC
Ventas Casper Holdings, LLC
Ventas Center MOB, LLC
Ventas DASCO MOB Holdings, LLC
Ventas Framingham, LLC
Ventas Grantor Trust # 2
Ventas Grantor Trust #1
Ventas Healthcare Properties, Inc.
Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C.
Ventas MO Holdings, LLC
 
Ventas MOB Holdings, LLC
Ventas Nexcore Holdings, LLC
Ventas of Vancouver, Limited
Ventas Provident, LLC
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership
Ventas REIT US Holdings Inc.
Ventas SSL Beacon Hill, Inc.
Ventas SSL Holdings, Inc.
Ventas SSL Holdings, LLC
Ventas SSL Lynn Valley, Inc.
Ventas SSL Ontario II, Inc.
Ventas SSL Ontario III, Inc.
Ventas SSL Vancouver, Inc.
Ventas SSL, Inc.
Ventas Sun LLC
Ventas TRS, LLC
Ventas University MOB, LLC
VSCRE Holdings, LLC
VTRLTH MAB I, LLC
VTRLTH MAB II, LLC
Xenia Nominee LLC
Xenia Nominee LP
 


