FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20090807163705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") is re-issuing in an updated format its historical financial statements to satisfy Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") requirements as they relate to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets ("SFAS No. 144").
In compliance with SFAS No. 144, the Company has reported revenues and expenses from properties sold during the first six months of 2009 as components of discontinued operations for each period presented (including the comparable period of the prior year) in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, filed with the SEC on August 5, 2009. Under SEC rules, the same reclassification as discontinued operations is required for previously issued annual financial statements for each of the three years presented in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the date of sale. This reclassification has no effect on the Company's reported net income attributable to common stockholders or funds from operations.
This Current Report on Form 8-K updates Items 6, 7 and 8 of, and Exhibit 12 to, the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, as previously updated by the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 6, 2009 (as so updated, the "2008 Form 10-K"), to reflect those properties sold during the first six months of 2009 as discontinued operations for all periods presented. All other items of the 2008 Form 10-K remain unchanged. The Company has not made any attempt to update the matters in the 2008 Form 10-K, except to the extent expressly provided above.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 12.1
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-02717) pertaining to the Vencor, Inc. 1987 Incentive Compensation Program; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-34191) pertaining to the Vencor, Inc. 1987 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-25519) pertaining to the TheraTx, Incorporated 1996 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-61552) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. Common Stock Purchase Plan for Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-97251) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-107951) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan for Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-118944) pertaining to the Ventas Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan and Ventas Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-136175) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan and Ventas, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan for Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-141605) pertaining to the common stock of Ventas, Inc.; the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-155770) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan; and the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-158424) pertaining to preferred stock, depository shares, common stock, warrants and debt securities of Ventas, Inc., of our report dated February 26, 2009 (except for Notes 2 and 9, as to which the date is May 4, 2009, and except for Notes 6, 14, 19, and 20, as to which the date is August 5, 2009) with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Ventas, Inc. and our report dated February 26, 2009 with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Ventas, Inc. included in this Current Report (Form 8-K).
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
August 5, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
You should read the following selected financial data in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as acquisitions, divestitures, changes in accounting policies and other items impact the comparability of the financial data.
 
 
 
 
The following discussion and analysis provides information which management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, "we," "us" or "our"). You should read this discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Management's Discussion and Analysis will help you understand:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate and Operating Environment
We are a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2008, this portfolio consisted of 513 assets: 248 seniors housing communities, 192 skilled nursing facilities, 41 hospitals and 32 medical office buildings ("MOBs") and other properties in 43 states and two Canadian provinces. With the exception of 79 of our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Sunrise") pursuant to long-term management agreements and the majority of our MOBs, we lease our properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. We also had real estate loan investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare companies as of December 31, 2008.
Our primary business consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those properties to third parties or operating those properties through independent third-party managers. We operate through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations.
As of December 31, 2008, we had a 100% ownership interest in 444 of our properties. Of the remaining 69 properties, we had a 75% to 85% ownership interest in 61 seniors housing communities, with the noncontrolling interest in those communities being owned by Sunrise, and we had joint venture ownership interests in eight MOBs, ranging from 50% to 99.7%. Our joint venture partners also typically provide management and leasing services for these MOBs.
Our business strategy is comprised of three principal objectives: (1) portfolio diversification; (2) stable earnings and growth; and (3) maintaining a strong balance sheet and liquidity. While current conditions in the capital markets persist, maintaining a strong balance sheet and liquidity will be our primary focus.
Access to external capital is an important component of the success of our strategy. Generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration of most of our investments with long-term fixed-rate financing. At December 31, 2008, only 17.4% of our consolidated debt was variable rate debt. We intend to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior debt securities and manage various capital ratios and amounts within appropriate parameters to the extent it is reasonable to do so. As of December 31, 2008, we had credit ratings of BBB- (stable) from Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, BBB- (positive) from Fitch Ratings and Ba1 (stable) from Moody's Investors Service on our senior unsecured debt securities.
 
Access to capital markets impacts our ability to repay existing indebtedness as it matures and to make future investments. Our cost of and ability to access capital depend on various factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our securities, perception of our potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our common stock.
2008 Highlights and Other Recent Developments
Liquidity and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dispositions
 
 
 
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), which requires us to make estimates and judgments about future events that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and the related disclosures. We base estimates on our experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been different, it is possible that different accounting treatment would have been applied, resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we re-evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe that the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect our more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. For more information regarding our critical accounting policies, please see "Note 2Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Principles of Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities over which we exercise control. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation, and net earnings are reduced by the portion of net earnings applicable to noncontrolling interests.
Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles
Investments in real estate assets are recorded at cost. We account for acquisitions using the purchase method. The cost of the properties acquired is allocated among tangible and recognized intangible assets and liabilities based upon estimated fair values in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations." We estimate fair values of the components of assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date. Recognized intangibles include the value of acquired lease contracts, management agreements and related customer relationships.
Our method for allocating the purchase price paid to acquire investments in real estate requires us to make subjective assessments for determining fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired or assumed. This includes determining the value of the buildings and improvements, land and improvements, ground leases, tenant improvements, in-place tenant leases, above and/or below market leases, other intangibles embedded in contracts and any debt assumed. Each of these estimates requires significant judgment, and some of the estimates involve complex calculations. These allocation assessments have a direct impact on our results of operations, as amounts allocated to some assets and liabilities have different depreciation or amortization lives. Additionally, the amortization of value assigned to above and/or below market leases is recorded as a component of revenue, as compared to the amortization of in-place leases and other intangibles, which is included in depreciation and amortization in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
We estimate the fair value of buildings on an as-if-vacant basis, and depreciate the building value over the estimated remaining life of the building. We determine the allocated value of other fixed assets based upon the replacement cost and depreciate such value over their estimated remaining useful lives. We determine the value of land either based on real estate tax assessed values in relation to the total value of the asset or internal analyses of recently acquired and existing comparable properties within our portfolio. The fair value of in-place leases, if any, reflects (i) above and/or below market leases, if any, determined by discounting the difference between the estimated current market rent and the in-place rentals, the resulting intangible asset or liability of which is amortized to revenue over the remaining life of the associated lease plus any fixed rate renewal periods, if applicable, (ii) the estimated value of the cost to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances, tenant improvements and leasing commissions, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease, and (iii) an estimated value of the absorption period to reflect the value of the rents and recovery costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the acquired space was vacant, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease. We also estimate the value of tenant or other customer relationships acquired by considering the nature and extent of existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality, expectations of lease renewals with the tenant, and the potential for significant, additional future leasing arrangements with the tenant. We amortize such value over the expected term of the associated arrangements or leases, which would include the remaining lives of the related leases and any expected renewal periods. The fair value of long-term debt is calculated by discounting the remaining contractual cash flows on each instrument at the current market rate for those borrowings. Discount rates are approximated based on the rate we estimate we would incur to replace each instrument on the date of acquisition. Any fair value adjustments related to long-term debt are recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instrument.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment indicators in accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying operations and adjust the net book value of leased properties and other long-lived assets to fair value if the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows including sales proceeds is less than book value. An impairment loss is recognized at the time we make any such determination. Future events could occur which would cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.
Marketable Debt and Equity Securities
We record marketable debt and equity securities as available-for-sale in accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." These securities are classified as a component of other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These securities are recorded at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest income, including discount or premium amortization, on marketable debt securities and gains or losses on securities sold, which are based on the specific identification method, are reported in income from loans and investments on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are stated at the unpaid principal balance net of any deferred origination fees, purchase discounts or premiums and/or valuation allowances. Net deferred origination fees are comprised of loan fees collected from the borrower net of certain direct costs. Net deferred origination fees and purchase discounts or premiums are amortized to income over the contractual life of the loan using the effective interest method. We evaluate the collectibility of loans and other amounts receivable from third parties based on a number of factors, including (i) corporate and facility-level financial and operational reports, (ii) compliance with the financial covenants set forth in the loan or lease agreement, (iii) the financial stability of the borrower or tenant and any guarantor, (iv) the payment history of the borrower or tenant and (v) current economic conditions. Our level of reserves, if any, for loans and other amounts receivable from third parties fluctuates depending upon all of these factors.
 
Revenue Recognition
Certain of our leases, excluding our master lease agreements with Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred") (the "Kindred Master Leases"), but including the majority of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Brookdale Senior Living"), provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent. Base rental revenues under these leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. Income on our straight-line revenue is recognized when collectibility is reasonably assured. In the event we determine that collectibility of straight-line revenue is not reasonably assured, we establish an allowance for estimated losses. Recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis results in recognized revenue exceeding cash amounts contractually due from our tenants during the first half of the term for leases that have straight-line treatment.
Certain of our other leases, including the Kindred Master Leases, provide for an annual increase in rental payments only if certain revenue parameters or other substantive contingencies are met. We recognize the increased rental revenue under these leases only if the revenue parameters or other substantive contingencies are met, rather than on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. We recognize income from rent, lease termination fees and other income once all of the following criteria are met in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") Staff Accounting Bulletin 104: (i) the agreement has been fully executed and delivered; (ii) services have been rendered; (iii) the amount is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.
Resident fees and services are recognized monthly as services are provided. Move in fees, which are a component of resident fees and services, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease agreement. Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days' notice.
Gain on Sale of Assets
We recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits and classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when the collectibility of the sale price is reasonably assured, we are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the profit, we have received adequate initial investment from the buyer, and other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain recognition on sales of real estate under SFAS No. 66, "Accounting for Sales of Real Estate."
Federal Income Tax
Since we have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), prior to our acquisition of the assets of Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust ("Sunrise REIT") in April 2007 we made no provision for federal income tax purposes, and we will continue to make no provision for REIT income and expense. As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we now record income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our entities which are taxed as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT provisions.
We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. An increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes when it is uncertain how an income or expense item should be treated on an income tax return. FIN 48 describes when and in what amount an uncertain
 
tax item should be recorded in the financial statements and provides guidance on recording interest and penalties and accounting and reporting for income taxes in interim periods. We adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See "Note 12Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
On January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." SFAS No. 157 defines fair value and provides guidance for measuring fair value and the necessary disclosures. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements, but rather applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
SFAS No. 157 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, and should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within levels one and two of the hierarchy) and the reporting entity's own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within level three of the hierarchy).
Level one inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Level two inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in level one that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level two inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, other than quoted prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level three inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which are typically based on an entity's own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.
In February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 157-2, "Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157" ("FSP No. 157-2"), which delays the adoption date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities. We adopted FSP No. 157-2 on January 1, 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
On January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations;" SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51;" and Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position No. APB 14-1, "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)" ("APB 14-1").
SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to measure the assets acquired, liabilities assumed (including contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair values on the acquisition date. The statement also requires that acquisition-related transaction costs be expensed as incurred, that acquired research and development value be capitalized, and that acquisition-related restructuring costs be capitalized only if they meet certain criteria. SFAS No. 141(R) did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements at the time of adoption.
SFAS No. 160 changes the reporting for minority interests, which must now be characterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of consolidated equity. The calculation of income and earnings per share continues to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent and is characterized as net income attributable to common stockholders. As the ownership of a subsidiary increases or decreases, SFAS No. 160 requires that any difference between the consideration paid and the adjustment to the noncontrolling interest balance be recorded as a component of equity in additional paid-in capital, so long as we maintain a controlling ownership interest. All current and prior year amounts have been reclassified to reflect our adoption of SFAS No. 160.
APB 14-1 specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. All current and prior year amounts have been restated to reflect our adoption of APB 14-1.
 
Results of Operations
The tables below show our results of operations for each year and the absolute dollar and percentage changes in those results from year to year (dollars in thousands).
Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007
 
 
nm - not meaningful
Revenues
The increase in our 2008 rental income primarily reflects $6.7 million of additional rent resulting from the annual escalators in the rent paid under the Kindred Master Leases effective May 1, 2007 and 2008 and $15.0 million in additional rent relating to triple-net leased properties and MOBs acquired during 2007 and 2008. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Rental income included in discontinued operations was $19.8 million and $30.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
Revenues related to our triple-net leased properties segment are received directly from the tenant operator of the property based on the terms of the lease and are generally fixed amounts, with annual escalators (subject to certain limitations). Therefore, while occupancy information is relevant to the operations of the tenant, our revenues and financial results are not directly impacted by the overall occupancy levels or profits at the triple-net leased properties. Looking forward, some of our lease escalators are tied to annual increases in the Consumer Price Index, which recently have trended negatively, and we are likely to see less growth in our rental income from these escalators as long as deflationary conditions continue.
The increase in resident fees and services during 2008 can be attributed primarily to the fact that we did not acquire the Sunrise REIT properties until late April 2007. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These amounts consist of all amounts earned from residents at our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise, including rental fees related to resident leases, extended health care fees and other ancillary service income. Average occupancy rates related to these properties were as follows:
 
 
 
Income from loans and investments increased during 2008 primarily due to interest earned on a $50.0 million marketable debt security purchased in early April 2008 and a first mortgage debt investment of $98.8 million made in late 2008, partially offset by a gain on the sale of marketable equity securities recognized in the second quarter of 2007.
The increase in our interest and other income during 2008 is primarily attributable to the resolution in September 2008 of a legal dispute.
Expenses
Interest expense included in discontinued operations was $8.6 million and $13.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Total interest expense, including interest allocated to discontinued operations, increased $3.4 million in 2008 over 2007, primarily due to $14.3 million of additional interest from higher loan balances as a result of our 2008 acquisition and loan activity, partially offset by a $11.8 million reduction in interest from lower effective interest rates and a $2.6 million loss due to early repayment of bridge financing in 2007 related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. Interest expense includes $6.4 million and $4.8 million of amortized deferred financing fees related to costs for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our effective interest rate decreased to 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2008, from 6.9% for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to additional depreciation relating to the properties acquired during 2008 and 2007, partially offset by a decrease in amortization expense of approximately $26.9 million related to in-place lease intangibles primarily related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. These in-place lease intangibles were fully amortized during the second quarter of 2008. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Property-level operating expenses increased primarily due to the Sunrise REIT acquisition, a $6.0 million provision for loan losses recorded in the third quarter of 2008, and a $4.0 million increase related to the growth of our MOB business. Our results for 2007 reflect only eight months of the Sunrise-related expenses due to the late April 2007 acquisition date.
The increase in general, administrative and professional fees is a result of our enterprise growth, an increase in non-cash stock-based compensation and dead deal costs.
The foreign currency gain for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily relates to the Canadian call option contracts we entered into in conjunction with the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 2Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. No similar contracts were in place for the comparable 2008 period.
The gain on extinguishment of debt in 2008 primarily represents the purchase of $124.4 million principal amount of our 8
 3
/
4
% senior notes due 2009 and $52.0 million principal amount of our 6
 3
/
4
% senior notes due 2010 in open market transactions for a discount. The gain on extinguishment of debt in 2007 represents the purchase of $5.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 7
 1
/
8
% senior notes due 2015 in an open market transaction for a discount.
Merger-related expenses for 2008 and 2007 primarily consisted of expenses relating to our litigation with HCP, Inc. arising out of the Sunrise REIT acquisition. Merger-related expenses for 2007 also included incremental costs directly related to the acquisition.
Other
We had a $23.3 million deferred tax liability to be utilized for any built-in gains tax related to the disposition of certain assets owned or deemed to be owned by us prior to our REIT election in 1999. The ten-year period in which these assets were subject to built-in gains tax ended on December 31, 2008. Because we had no pending or planned dispositions of these assets through December 31, 2008, we did not expect to pay any amounts related to this contingent liability. Therefore, this contingent liability was no longer required, and $23.3 million was reversed into income during the third quarter of 2008.
Income tax benefit represents a deferred benefit which is due solely to our taxable REIT subsidiaries as a direct result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 12Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Noncontrolling interest, net of tax primarily represents Sunrise's share of net income from its ownership percentage in 61 of our seniors housing communities.
Preferred stock dividends and issuance costs in 2007 related to the 700,000 shares of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock that were issued to fund a portion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, all of which we redeemed in May 2007 using the proceeds from the sale of our common stock. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Discontinued Operations
The decrease in discontinued operations is primarily the result of a gain of $129.5 million recognized in 2007 from the sale of 22 assets compared to a gain of $39.0 million recognized in 2008 from the sale of twelve assets. See "Note 6Dispositions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
 
 
nm - not meaningful
Revenues
The increase in our 2007 rental income, excluding rental income allocated to discontinued operations, primarily reflects (i) $26.4 million of additional rent resulting from the annual escalator in the rent paid under the Kindred Master Leases effective May 1, 2007 and the Kindred rent reset that was effective July 19, 2006, (ii) $7.6 million in additional rent relating to the properties acquired during 2007 (excluding the Sunrise REIT properties), (iii) $41.1 million in additional rent relating to the full year effect in 2007 of properties acquired during 2006, and various other escalations in the rent paid on our existing properties. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Rental income included in discontinued operations was $30.4 million and $35.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Resident fees and services are a direct result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition and are attributed to the period from April 26, 2007 through December 31, 2007. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These amounts consist of all amounts earned from residents at our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise, including rental fees related to resident leases, extended health care fees and other ancillary service income.
 
Income from loans and investments, which includes amortization of deferred fees, decreased $4.4 million in 2007 primarily due to the repayment of a bridge loan we made in 2006 to affiliates of the seller of 64 properties we currently lease to Senior Care, Inc. ("Senior Care"). The bridge loan bore interest at a rate of approximately 10.4% and was repaid upon consummation of the Senior Care acquisition in November 2006. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We recognized approximately $3.4 million of interest income from this loan during 2006. Additionally, three of the six first mortgage loans we issued during 2005 were repaid in May 2007, representing a decrease in income from loans and investments of approximately $0.8 million.
Expenses
Interest expense included in discontinued operations was $13.0 million and $14.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Total interest expense, including interest allocated to discontinued operations, increased $68.4 million in 2007 over 2006, primarily due to $76.7 million of additional interest from higher loan balances as a result of our 2007 acquisition and loan activity, partially offset by a $12.6 million reduction in interest from lower effective interest rates. In 2007, we also recognized a $2.6 million expense for upfront fees on bridge financing related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. Interest expense includes $4.8 million and $3.1 million of amortized deferred financing fees related to costs for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our effective interest rate decreased to 6.9% for the year ended December 31, 2007, from 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to depreciation relating to the properties acquired during 2007 and 2006. Additionally, we incurred amortization expense of approximately $56.1 million related to in-place lease intangibles from the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Property-level operating expenses increased primarily due to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. Property-level operating expenses include all expenses related to our MOB operations and all amounts incurred for the operations of our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise for the period from April 26, 2007 through December 31, 2007, such as labor, food, utilities, marketing, management and other property operating costs.
The increase in general, administrative and professional fees is due primarily to increased stock-based compensation and increases in other general and administrative items resulting from our enterprise growth.
The foreign currency gain for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily relates to the Canadian call option contracts we entered into in conjunction with the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 2Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. No similar contracts were in place for the comparable 2006 period.
The gain on extinguishment of debt in 2007 represents the purchase of $5.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 7
 1
/
8
% senior notes due 2015 in an open market transaction for a discount. The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2006 represents the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs related to the refinancing of our previous secured revolving credit facility during the second quarter of 2006.
Merger-related expenses in 2007 consisted of incremental costs directly related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition and expenses relating to our litigation with HCP, Inc. arising out of the acquisition.
In connection with the rent reset process under the Kindred Master Leases, we incurred approximately $7.4 million of one-time costs which we expensed during 2006. These costs included fees of the final appraisers and third party experts, consulting fees and legal fees and expenses. No similar costs were incurred during 2007.
Other
During 2006, we were notified by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") that it had completed its audit of our 2001 federal tax return with no additional tax being due. Accordingly, we reversed into income a previously recorded $1.8 million tax liability related to uncertainties surrounding the outcome of this audit. No similar activity occurred during 2007.
 
Income tax benefit represents a deferred benefit which is due solely to our taxable REIT subsidiaries as a direct result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 12Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Noncontrolling interest, net of tax primarily represents Sunrise's share of net income from the Sunrise REIT properties based on its ownership percentage in 61 of our seniors housing communities.
Preferred stock dividends and issuance costs related to the 700,000 shares of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock that were issued to fund a portion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, all of which we redeemed in May 2007 using the proceeds from the sale of our common stock. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Discontinued Operations
The increase in discontinued operations is primarily due to the $129.5 million gain on sale of real estate assets recognized in the second quarter of 2007 resulting primarily from the sale of 22 properties to Kindred. See "Note 6Dispositions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Funds from Operations
Our funds from operations ("FFO") for the five years ended December 31, 2008 are summarized in the following table:
 
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values, instead, have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, we consider FFO an appropriate measure of performance of an equity REIT, and we use the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate property, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.
FFO presented herein is not necessarily comparable to FFO presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definition. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of our financial performance or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of our liquidity, nor is FFO necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of our needs. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our consolidated historical operating results, FFO should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements and data included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Asset/Liability Management
Asset/liability management is a key element of our overall risk management program. The objective of asset/liability management is to support the achievement of our business strategies while maintaining appropriate risk levels. The asset/liability management process focuses on a variety of risks, including market risk (primarily interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk) and credit risk. Effective management of these risks is an important determinant of the absolute levels and variability of our FFO and net worth. The following discussion addresses our integrated management of assets and liabilities, including the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Market Risk
Market risks relating to our financial instruments result primarily from changes in U.S. or Canadian LIBOR rates, the Canadian Bankers' Acceptance rate or the U.S. or Canadian Prime rates. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relate primarily to borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities, certain of our mortgage loans that are floating rate obligations and mortgage loans receivable.
While interest rate fluctuations will generally not affect our fixed rate debt obligations unless such instruments mature, or until such time that we would be required to refinance such debt, they will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. If interest rates have risen at the time our fixed rate debt matures, or at such time we would be required to refinance such debt, our profitability could be adversely affected by the additional cost of borrowings. Conversely, lower interest rates at the time our debt matures or at the time of refinancing may lower our overall borrowing costs. We continuously monitor our level of floating rate debt with respect to total debt and other factors, including our assessment of the current and future economic environment.
To highlight the sensitivity of our fixed rate debt to changes in interest rates, the following summary shows the effects of a hypothetical instantaneous change of 100 basis points (BPS) in interest rates as of December 31, 2008 and 2007:
 
 
 
The table below sets forth certain information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts (dollars in thousands):
 
The increase in our outstanding variable rate debt from December 31, 2007 is primarily attributable to additional net borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and additional borrowings related to 2008 acquisitions. Pursuant to the terms of certain leases with one of our tenants, if interest rates increase on certain debt that we have totaling $97.5 million as of December 31, 2008, our tenant is required to pay us additional rent (on a dollar-for-dollar basis) in an amount equal to the increase in interest expense resulting from the increased interest rates. Therefore, the increase in interest expense related to this debt is equally offset by an increase in additional rent due to us from the tenant. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable rate debt, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of December 31, 2008, interest expense for 2009 (inclusive of the $97.5 million) would increase and our net income would decrease by approximately $4.5 million, or $0.03 per common share on a diluted basis. The fair value of our fixed and variable rate debt is based on current interest rates at which we could obtain similar borrowings.
In the past, we mitigated some interest rate risk through an interest rate swap agreement designed to hedge against rising interest rates. However, the swap expired on June 30, 2008, and we do not currently have any interest rate swap agreements in effect, nor do we expect to enter into any additional interest rate swap agreements at this time. We may, however, engage in hedging strategies in the future, depending on management's analysis of the interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate environments and the costs and risks of such strategies. We do not enter into market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes.
We are subject to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian exchange rates which may, from time to time, have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian dollar will impact the amount of net income we earn from our Canadian operations. Based on 2008 results, if the Canadian exchange rate were to increase or decrease by $0.10, our net income would decrease or increase, as applicable, by approximately $0.2 million per year. If we increase our international presence through investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and/or healthcare assets outside the United States, we may also decide to transact additional business in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars. Although we may decide to pursue hedging alternatives (including additional borrowings in local currencies) to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that any such fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, on our ability to service our indebtedness and on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a "Material Adverse Effect").
We also have investments in marketable debt securities where we earn interest on a fixed and floating rate basis. These investments are classified as available for sale and are recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses recorded as a component of stockholders' equity. Interest rate fluctuations and market conditions will cause the fair market value of these investments to change. As of December 31, 2008, the fair market value of our marketable debt securities was $51.6 million, with an original cost of $63.7 million.
 
During 2008, we purchased $112.5 million principal amount of first mortgage debt issued by a national provider of healthcare services, primarily skilled nursing care. We purchased the debt at a discount for $98.8 million, resulting in an effective interest rate to maturity of LIBOR plus 533 basis points. Interest on the loan is payable monthly at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 125 basis points, and the loan matures in January 2012, subject to a one-year extension, at the borrower's option, subject to certain conditions.
As of December 31, 2008, we held a receivable for three outstanding first mortgage loans (the "Sunwest Loans") in the aggregate principal amount of $20.0 million. During 2008, we recorded a provision for loan losses on the Sunwest Loans of $6.0 million as a result of certain defaults by the borrower.
As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of our loans receivable was $111.9 million and was based on our estimates of currently prevailing rates for comparable loans. See "Note 8Loans Receivable" and "Note 10Fair Value of Financial Instruments" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Credit Risk
We receive a significant portion of our revenue by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual escalators, subject to certain limitations. Some of our triple-net lease escalators are tied to the Consumer Price Index, with caps, floors or collars. We also earn revenue from residents and tenants at our operating assets. Historically, most of our revenue and EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) were derived from assets subject to long-term triple-net leases. Currently, 22.3% of our EBITDA is derived from non-triple-net leases (our senior living operations and MOBs) where rental rates may fluctuate upon lease rollovers and renewals due to economic or market conditions.
For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Kindred accounted for $241.2 million, or 25.5%, of our total revenues and 38.0% of our total NOI (net operating income) (including amounts in discontinued operations), and $240.6 million, or 30.8%, of our total revenues and 41.5% of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations), respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Brookdale Senior Living accounted for $121.5 million, or 12.8%, of our total revenues and 19.2% of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations), and $122.8 million, or 15.7%, of our total revenues and 21.2% of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations), respectively. This concentration of rental revenues creates credit risk. As a result, Kindred's and Brookdale Senior Living's financial condition and ability to meet their rental payments and other obligations to us has a significant impact on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Any failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively conduct its operations could have a material adverse effect on its business reputation or on its ability to enlist and maintain patients in its facilities, which could also affect its ability to pay rent to us. See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our BusinessWe depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness of Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and "Note 4Concentration of Credit Risk" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We regularly monitor the credit risk under our lease agreements with our tenants by, among other things, (i) reviewing and analyzing information regarding the healthcare industry generally, publicly available information regarding tenants, and information provided by the tenants and borrowers under our lease and other agreements, and (ii) having periodic discussions with tenants, borrowers and their representatives.
Approximately 20.0% of our EBITDA and 45.4% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2008 were attributable to senior living operations managed by Sunrise. Approximately 36.2% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2007 were attributable to senior living operations managed by Sunrise for the period from April 26, 2007 (the date of the Sunrise REIT acquisition) through December 31, 2007.
We are party to management agreements with Sunrise pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing communities. Each management agreement has a term of 30 years from its effective date, the earliest of which began in 2004. Pursuant to the management agreements, we pay Sunrise a base management fee of 6% of resident fees and similar revenues, subject to reduction based on below target performance relating to NOI for a pool of properties. The minimum management fee assessable under these agreements is 5% of resident fees and similar revenues of the properties. We also pay incentive fees if a pool of properties
 
exceeds aggregate performance targets relating to NOI; provided, however, that total management fees, including incentive fees, shall not exceed 8% of resident fees and similar revenues. In 2008, we paid a 5.75% management fee for 71 properties and management fees of between 6% and 10.4% for eight properties. The management agreements also specify that we (or the joint venture to which we are party, as applicable) will reimburse Sunrise for direct or indirect costs necessary to manage our seniors housing communities.
We may terminate our management agreements upon the occurrence of an event of default by Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including the revocation of any licenses or certificates necessary for operation), subject in each case to Sunrise's rights to cure deficiencies. Each management agreement may also be terminated upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise. In addition, if a minimum number of properties fail to achieve a targeted NOI level for a given period, then we may terminate the management agreement on each property in such pool. This targeted NOI level for each property is based upon an expected operating income projection set at the commencement of the management agreement for the applicable property, with such projection escalating annually. However, various legal and contractual considerations may limit or delay our exercise of any or all of these termination rights.
We own a 75% to 85% ownership interest in 61 of our seniors housing communities pursuant to joint venture agreements, with the noncontrolling interests in these joint ventures being owned by Sunrise. These joint ventures are each managed by a board of managers, which we control. As the controlling member, we have authority to make all decisions for our Sunrise joint ventures except for a limited set of major decisions, which generally include: (a) the merger or disposition of substantially all the assets of the joint venture; (b) the sale of additional interests in the joint venture; (c) the dissolution of the joint venture; (d) the disposition of a senior housing community owned by the joint venture; and (e) the acquisition of any real property. We can generally transfer our interest in a Sunrise joint venture, without consent, to anyone other than large seniors housing operators or their majority investors. Generally, Sunrise must obtain our prior consent for any direct or indirect transfer of its interest in a joint venture. With limited exceptions, profits and losses of the joint venture are allocated pro rata to each member. If either member fails to make a required capital contribution to a joint venture after notice and a cure period, the non-defaulting member may (i) revoke the capital contribution funding notice, (ii) advance to the joint venture the amount of the required capital contribution on behalf of the defaulting member in the form of a loan to the defaulting member, with all of the defaulting member's subsequent distributions being applied to the loan until repayment in full, or (iii) advance the capital on behalf of the defaulting member with a recalculation of each member's proportionate interest in the joint venture pursuant to the applicable formula in the agreements. Many of our Sunrise joint venture agreements provide for a punitive reduction in the defaulting member's proportionate interest in the event of an advance of capital by a non-defaulting member pursuant to option (iii). The joint ventures are generally limited to incurring new or refinanced mortgage indebtedness in excess of 75% of the market value of its properties.
See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our BusinessThe properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Adverse developments in Sunrise's business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Lease Expirations
As our triple-net leases expire, we are exposed to the risks that our tenants may elect not to renew and, in such event, that we may be unable to reposition our properties on the same or better terms, if at all. The following table summarizes our triple-net lease expirations scheduled to occur over the next ten years (dollars in thousands).
 
 
The failure of our tenants to renew our leases could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our BusinessWe may be unable to reposition our properties on as favorable terms, or at all, if we have to replace any of our tenants or operators, and we may be subject to delays, limitations and expenses in repositioning our assets" included in Part I, Item IA of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
During 2008, our principal sources of liquidity were proceeds from our common stock offerings, issuance of mortgage debt, borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, asset dispositions and cash flows from operations. During the next twelve months, our principal liquidity needs are to: (i) fund normal operating expenses; (ii) meet our debt service requirements; (iii) repay $118.1 million of debt maturing; (iv) fund capital expenditures; (v) fund investments and/or commitments; and (vi) make distributions to our stockholders to maintain our REIT qualification under the Code. We believe that these needs will be satisfied by cash flows from operations, debt financings, proceeds from sales of assets and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities. However, if these sources of capital are not available and/or if we make acquisitions and investments, we may be required to obtain funding from additional borrowings, assumption of debt from the seller, dispositions of assets (in whole or in part through joint venture arrangements with third parties) and issuance of secured or unsecured long-term debt or other securities. We expect to be able to extend, refinance, renew or replace a substantial portion of our unsecured revolving credit facilities prior to their maturity in April 2010, but we cannot give any assurances as to whether we will be able to extend, refinance, renew or replace any portion of our unsecured revolving credit facilities or as to the timing or terms of any such extension, refinancing, renewal or replacement. See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our Capital StructureThe recent and ongoing credit and liquidity crisis may limit our access to capital and have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business plan" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As of December 31, 2008, we had $176.8 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, consisting primarily of investments in U.S. treasury money market funds and cash related to our seniors housing communities that is deposited and held in property-level accounts. Funds maintained in the property-level accounts are used primarily for the payment of property-level expenses and certain capital expenditures. A portion of the cash maintained in these property-level accounts is distributed to us monthly. At December 31, 2008, we also had escrow deposits and restricted cash of $55.9 million and unused credit availability of $546.0 million under our unsecured revolving credit facilities.
 
Unsecured Revolving Credit Facilities
Our unsecured revolving credit facilities mature in April 2010 and permit us to borrow up to an aggregate of $850.0 million. Of this amount, we may borrow up to $150.0 million or the equivalent in Canadian dollars under the Canadian credit facility. The U.S. credit facility includes a $150.0 million "accordion" feature that permits us to further expand our aggregate borrowing capacity to $1.0 billion upon satisfaction of certain conditions. Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum (based on U.S. or Canadian LIBOR, Canadian Bankers' Acceptance rate, or the U.S. or Canadian Prime rate) plus an applicable percentage based on our consolidated leverage. The applicable percentage was 0.75% at December 31, 2008.
The agreements governing our unsecured revolving credit facilities subject us to a number of restrictive covenants. See "Note 9Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. ("Lehman") is a named lender under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and has a $20 million funding commitment (approximately 2% of the aggregate borrowing capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facilities) to us. Lehman has defaulted on its obligations to fund our borrowing requests, and we are seeking an assignment of this portion of our unsecured revolving credit facilities, through Lehman's Chapter 11 proceeding, to a third party investor who we believe represents the economic interest in such obligation. We cannot give any assurances as to whether or when an assignment of Lehman's interest in our unsecured revolving credit facilities may occur. We also cannot give any assurances that the other lenders under our unsecured revolving credit facilities will continue to fund their respective portions of our borrowing requests. While we currently have no reason to believe that we will be unable to access our unsecured revolving credit facilities in the future, concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of borrowers specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce and, in some cases, cease funding to borrowers. The economic downturn and credit crisis have resulted in the bankruptcy or merger of many financial institutions, like Lehman, that could adversely impact our ability to draw on our unsecured revolving credit facilities. If we are unable to access our unsecured revolving credit facilities, our liquidity and financial condition could be adversely affected.
As of February 20, 2009, we had $410.6 million outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facilities due April 2010 and approximately $392.3 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, for a net amount of $18.3 million.
Convertible Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2008, we had $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3
 7
/
8
%
 
Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "Convertible Notes") outstanding. The Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holder (i) prior to September 15, 2011, upon the occurrence of specified events and (ii) on or after September 15, 2011, at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to the stated maturity, in each case into cash up to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and cash or shares of our common stock, at our election, in respect of any conversion value in excess of the principal amount at the current conversion rate of 22.6262 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which equates to a current conversion price of approximately $44.20 per share). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of a quarterly dividend in excess of $0.395 per share. To the extent the market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price our earnings per share will be diluted.
Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into in connection with our initial offering of the Convertible Notes, we have filed a shelf registration statement covering resales by the holders of shares of our common stock, if any, issued upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. We will not receive any proceeds in connection with any such resales.
The indenture governing the Convertible Notes subjects us to a number of restrictive covenants. See "Note 9Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain of our subsidiaries have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the Convertible Notes.
Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted APB 14-1, which requires us to separately account for the liability and equity component in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized. All current and prior year amounts have been restated to reflect our adoption of APB 14-1. See "Note 2Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2008, we had the following series of senior notes (collectively, the "Senior Notes") issued by our subsidiaries, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During 2008, we purchased $124.4 million principal amount of our outstanding 2009 Senior Notes and $52.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 2010 Senior Notes in open market transactions. As a result of these purchases, we recorded a $2.5 million gain on the extinguishment of debt in 2008. In 2007, we purchased $5.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 2015 Senior Notes in an open market transaction. We may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase additional amounts of the outstanding Senior Notes for cash and/or in exchange for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, prospects for future access to capital and other factors. The amounts involved may be material.
The indentures governing the Senior Notes subject us to a number of restrictive covenants. See "Note 9Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We and certain of our subsidiaries have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the Senior Notes.
Dividends
In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to our stockholders of at least 90% of REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gain). Our quarterly dividends in 2008 aggregated $2.05 per share, which is greater than 100% of our 2008 estimated taxable income. We also intend to pay dividends greater than 100% of taxable income for 2009. On February 11, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.5125 per share, payable in cash on March 31, 2009 to holders of record on March 18, 2009.
We expect that REIT taxable income will be less than cash flow due to the allowance of depreciation and other non-cash deductions in computing REIT taxable income. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, it is possible that from time to time we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. If we do not have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, or if we desire to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements or any combination of the foregoing. See "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax ConsiderationsRequirements for Qualification as a REITAnnual Distribution Requirements" included in Part I, Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Capital Expenditures
Capital expenditures to maintain and improve our triple-net leased properties are generally the responsibility of our tenants. Accordingly, we do not believe that we will incur any major expenditures in connection with these properties. After the terms of the triple-net leases expire, or in the event that the tenants are unable or unwilling to meet their obligations under those leases, we anticipate funding any capital expenditures for which we may become responsible by cash flows from operations or through additional borrowings. With respect to our operating assets, including our communities that are managed by Sunrise and our MOBs, we expect that capital expenditures will be funded by the cash flows from the properties or through additional borrowings. To the extent that unanticipated expenditures or significant borrowings are required, our liquidity may be affected adversely. Our ability to borrow funds may be restricted in certain circumstances by the terms of
 
our unsecured revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding Senior Notes. Our ability to borrow may also be limited by our lenders' ability and willingness to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests under our unsecured revolving credit facilities.
Equity Offerings
In 2008, we sold 9,236,083 shares of our common stock in underwritten public offerings pursuant to our existing universal shelf registration statement. We received aggregate proceeds of $409.0 million from the sales, which we used to repay indebtedness outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
In May 2007, we completed the sale of 26,910,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our existing universal shelf registration statement. We received $1.05 billion in net proceeds from the sale, which we used along with the proceeds from our disposition of certain Kindred assets (see "Note 6Dispositions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility to redeem all of our outstanding Series A Senior Preferred Stock and to repay our indebtedness under the senior interim loan used to fund a portion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition.
Our automatic universal shelf registration statement, filed with the Commission in April 2006, relates to the sale, from time to time, of an indeterminate amount of debt securities and related guarantees, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The registration statement will expire in April 2009 pursuant to the Commission's rules, and we intend to replace it with a new universal shelf registration statement upon expiration.
Other
During 2008 and 2007, we assumed facility-level mortgage debt in connection with certain property acquisitions, including the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 5Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
All facility-level mortgage debt outstanding was approximately $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
We received proceeds of $6.2 million and $9.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from the exercises of outstanding stock options. Future proceeds from the exercises of stock options will be primarily affected by the future performance of our stock price and the number of options outstanding. Options outstanding have increased to 1.4 million as of December 31, 2008, from 0.9 million as of December 31, 2007.
We issued approximately 18,400 and 20,750 shares of common stock under our Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, for net proceeds of $0.7 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We currently offer a 1% discount on the purchase price of our stock to shareholders who reinvest their dividends and/or make optional cash purchases of common stock through the plan. Each month or quarter, as applicable, we may lower or eliminate the discount without prior notice, thereby affecting the future proceeds that we receive from this plan.
Cash Flows
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $379.9 million and $404.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in 2008 is attributable to changes in working capital, partially offset by higher FFO resulting from a full year of our senior living operations, accretive acquisitions and rent escalations from our triple-net lease tenants.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $136.3 million and $1.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These activities consisted primarily of: (i) investments in real estate ($53.8 million and $1.3 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively); (ii) capital expenditures ($16.4 million and $8.2 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively); (iii) investments in loans receivable and marketable debt securities ($172.5 million in 2008); (iv) proceeds from mortgage loans
 
($0.1 million and $15.8 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively); (v) the sale of marketable equity securities ($7.8 million in 2007); and (vi) proceeds from real estate disposals ($104.2 million and $157.4 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively).
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities totaled $96.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and included $288.8 million of cash dividend payments to common stockholders, distributions to noncontrolling interest of $15.7 million and $416.9 million of aggregate principal payments on mortgage obligations. The uses were partially offset by proceeds of $408.5 million from the issuance of common stock, $140.3 million related to the issuance of debt and $73.4 million of net borrowings on our unsecured revolving credit facilities.
Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $802.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and included proceeds of $1.2 billion in bridge financing, $1.05 billion from the issuance of common stock, $176.6 million of net borrowings on our unsecured revolving credit facility and our previous Canadian credit facility and $53.8 million from the issuance of other debt. Uses consisted of (i) $1.2 billion for repayment of the bridge financing, (ii) $286.2 million of cash dividend payments to common and preferred stockholders, (iii) distributions to noncontrolling interest of $3.0 million and (iv) $184.6 million of aggregate principal payments on mortgage obligations.
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes the effect that minimum debt (which includes principal and interest payments) and other material noncancelable commitments are expected to have on our cash flow in future periods as of December 31, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2008, we had $12.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits under the provisions of FIN 48 that have been excluded from the table above, as we are unable to make a reasonable reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authority.
 
The information set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsAsset/Liability Management" is incorporated by reference into this Item 7A.
 
 
 
Management of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management, with the participation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management has determined that the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 was effective.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report included herein.
 
Stockholders and Board of Directors
Ventas, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ventas, Inc. as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Ventas, Inc. at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2006 Ventas, Inc. changed its method of accounting for stock-based compensation.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Ventas, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in "Internal Control-Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 26, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
Chicago, Illinois
February 26, 2009, except for Notes 2 and 9, as to which
the date is May 4, 2009, and except for Notes 6, 14, 19, and 20,
as to which the date is August 5, 2009
 
Stockholders and Board of Directors
Ventas, Inc.
We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Ventas, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in "Internal ControlIntegrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Ventas, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, management's assessment that Ventas, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Ventas, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and our report dated February 26, 2009 (except for Notes 2 and 9, as to which the date is May 4, 2009, and except for Notes 6, 14, 19, and 20, as to which the date is August 5, 2009), expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
Chicago, Illinois
February 26, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1Description of Business
Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, "we," "us" or "our") is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2008, this portfolio consisted of 513 assets: 248 seniors housing communities, 192 skilled nursing facilities, 41 hospitals and 32 medical office buildings ("MOBs") and other properties in 43 states and two Canadian provinces. With the exception of 79 of our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Sunrise") pursuant to long-term management agreements and the majority of our MOBs, we lease our properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred") leased 203 of our properties and Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, which include Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. ("Brookdale") and Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra"), "Brookdale Senior Living") leased 83 of our properties as of December 31, 2008. We also had real estate loan investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare third parties as of December 31, 2008.
We conduct substantially all of our business through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("Ventas Realty"), PSLT OP, L.P. and Ventas SSL, Inc., and ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership ("ETOP"), in which we own substantially all of the partnership units. Our primary business consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those properties to third parties or operating those properties through independent third party managers.
Note 2Accounting Policies
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities over which we exercise control. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation, and net earnings are reduced by the portion of net earnings applicable to noncontrolling interests.
Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of rental revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles
Investments in real estate assets are recorded at cost. We account for acquisitions using the purchase method. The cost of the properties acquired is allocated among tangible and recognized intangible assets and liabilities based upon estimated fair values in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations." We estimate fair values of the components of assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date. Recognized intangibles include the value of acquired lease contracts, management agreements and related customer relationships.
Our method for determining fair value varies with the categorization of the asset or liability acquired. We estimate the fair value of buildings on an as-if-vacant basis, and depreciate the building value over the estimated remaining life of the building. We determine the allocated value of other fixed assets based upon the replacement cost and depreciate such value over their estimated remaining useful lives. We determine the value of land either based on real estate tax assessed values in relation to the total value of the asset or internal analyses of recently acquired and existing comparable properties within our portfolio. The fair value of in-place leases, if any, reflects (i) above and/or below market leases, if any, determined by discounting the difference between the estimated current market rent and the in-place rentals, the resulting intangible asset or liability of which is amortized to revenue over the remaining life of the associated lease plus any fixed rate renewal periods, if applicable, (ii) the estimated value of the cost to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances, tenant improvements and leasing commissions, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease, and (iii) an estimated value of the absorption period to reflect the value of the rents and recovery costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the acquired space was vacant, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease. We also estimate the value of
 
tenant or other customer relationships acquired by considering the nature and extent of existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality, expectations of lease renewals with the tenant, and the potential for significant, additional future leasing arrangements with the tenant. We amortize such value over the expected term of the associated arrangements or leases, which would include the remaining lives of the related leases and any expected renewal periods. The fair value of long-term debt is calculated by discounting the remaining contractual cash flows on each instrument at the current market rate for those borrowings. Discount rates are approximated based on the rate we estimate we would incur to replace each instrument on the date of acquisition. Any fair value adjustments related to long-term debt are recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instrument.
Fixtures and equipment, with a net book value of $73.3 million and $110.2 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, is included in net real estate property on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Depreciation is recorded on the straight-line basis, using estimated useful lives ranging from 20 to 50 years for buildings and improvements and three to ten years for fixtures and equipment. Depreciation is discontinued when a property is identified as held for sale.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment indicators in accordance with SFAS No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying operations. We adjust the net book value of leased properties and other long-lived assets to fair value, if the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows including sales proceeds is less than book value. An impairment loss is recognized at the time we make any such determination. Future events could occur which would cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted. We did not record any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
Certain long-lived assets are classified as held-for-sale in accordance with SFAS No. 144. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or their fair value less cost to sell and are no longer depreciated. Discontinued operations is defined in SFAS No. 144 as a component of an entity that has either been disposed of or is deemed to be held for sale if both the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations as a result of the disposal transaction and the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction. We have classified six assets totaling $62.5 million as assets held for sale and recorded these assets as a component of other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, $38.8 million of mortgage debt related to these assets was recorded as a component of senior notes payable and other debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The operations for these assets are included as a component of discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The results of operations and gain or loss on assets sold or held for sale are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Interest expense allocated to discontinued operations has been estimated based on a proportional allocation of rental income and identified mortgage interest, or some combination thereof.
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are stated at the unpaid principal balance net of any deferred origination fees, purchase discounts or premiums and/or valuation allowances. Net deferred origination fees are comprised of loan fees collected from the borrower net of certain direct costs. Net deferred origination fees and purchase discounts or premiums are amortized to income over the contractual life of the loan using the effective interest method. We evaluate the collectibility of loans and other amounts receivable from third parties based on a number of factors, including (i) corporate and facility-level financial and operational reports, (ii) compliance with the financial covenants set forth in the loan or lease agreement, (iii) the financial stability of the applicable borrower or tenant and any guarantor, (iv) the payment history of the borrower or tenant, and (v) current economic conditions. Our level of reserves, if any, for loans and other amounts receivable from third parties fluctuates depending upon all of these factors. The valuation allowance for loan losses was $5.5 million and $0 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See "Note 8Loans Receivable."
 
Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with a maturity date of three months or less when purchased. These investments are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.
Escrow Deposits and Restricted Cash
Escrow deposits consist of amounts held by us or lenders to provide for future real estate tax and insurance expenditures and tenant improvements related to our operations and properties. Restricted cash represents amounts paid to us for security deposits and other purposes.
Deferred Financing Costs
Deferred financing costs are amortized as a component of interest expense over the terms of the related borrowings using a method that approximates a level yield, and are net of accumulated amortization of approximately $19.8 million and $13.9 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Amortized costs of approximately $7.6 million, $5.9 million and $3.3 million were included in interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Marketable Debt and Equity Securities
We record marketable debt and equity securities as available-for-sale in accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." These securities are classified as a component of other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These securities are recorded at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest income, including discount or premium amortization, on marketable debt securities and gains or losses on securities sold, which are based on the specific identification method, are reported in income from loans and investments on our Consolidated Statements of Income. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we realized gains related to the sale of various equity securities of $0, $0.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively.
Derivative Instruments
We use derivative instruments to protect against the risk of interest rate movements on future cash flows under our variable rate debt agreements and the risk of foreign currency exchange rate movements. In accordance with SFAS No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended, derivative instruments are reported at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized as adjustments to net income if the derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting. If the derivative is deemed to be eligible for hedge accounting, such changes are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, exclusive of ineffectiveness amounts, which are recognized as adjustments to net income.
In January 2007, we entered into two Canadian call options in conjunction with our agreement to acquire the assets of Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust ("Sunrise REIT"). See "Note 5Acquisitions." We paid an aggregate purchase price of $8.5 million for these contracts, which had an aggregate notional call amount of Cdn $750.0 million at a Cdn $1.18 strike price. These contracts were settled on April 26, 2007, the acquisition date, and we received cash of $33.2 million upon settlement. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized gains related to these call option contracts of $24.7 million, which is included in our Consolidated Statements of Income as a foreign currency gain.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair value disclosures for financial instruments.
 
 
 
 
Revenue Recognition
Certain of our leases, excluding our master lease agreements with Kindred (the "Kindred Master Leases") but including the majority of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent. Base rental revenues under these leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the applicable lease. Income on our straight-line revenue is recognized when collectibility is reasonably assured. In the event we determine that collectibility of straight-line revenue is not reasonably assured, we establish an allowance for estimated losses. Recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis results in recognized revenue exceeding cash amounts contractually due from our tenants during the first half of the term for leases that have straight-line treatment. The cumulative excess is included in other assets, net of allowances, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $68.2 million and $54.5 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Certain of our other leases, including the Kindred Master Leases, provide for an annual increase in rental payments only if certain revenue parameters or other substantive contingencies are met. We recognize the increased rental revenue under these leases only if the revenue parameters or other substantive contingencies are met, rather than on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. We recognize income from rent, lease termination fees and other income when all of the following criteria are met in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") Staff Accounting Bulletin 104: (i) the agreement has been fully executed and delivered; (ii) services have been rendered; (iii) the amount is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.
Resident fees and services are recognized monthly as services are provided. Move-in fees, a component of resident fees and services, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease agreement. Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days' notice.
Stock-Based Compensation
We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123(R)"), which is a revision to SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"). SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB Opinion No. 25"). Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123, except that SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative under SFAS No. 123(R). See "Note 11Stock-Based Compensation."
Gain on Sale of Assets
We recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits and classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when the collectibility of the sales price is reasonably assured, we are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the profit, we have received adequate initial investment from the buyer, and other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain recognition on sales of real estate under SFAS No. 66, "Accounting for Sales of Real Estate."
Federal Income Tax
Since we have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), prior to our acquisition of the assets of Sunrise REIT in April 2007 we made no provision for federal income tax purposes, and we will continue to make no provision for REIT income and expense. As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we now record income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our entities which are taxed as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT provisions.
 
Deferred income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. An increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs.
Foreign Currency
Certain of our subsidiaries' functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, whereas balance sheet accounts are translated using exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Resulting currency translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity, in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Transaction gains and losses are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Segment Reporting
As of December 31, 2008, we operated through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. Our triple-net leased properties segment consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and leasing those properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior living operations segment consists of investments in seniors housing communities located in the United States and Canada for which we engage Sunrise to manage the operations.
We acquired the senior living operations segment on April 26, 2007, pursuant to the purchase of the Sunrise REIT properties. With the addition of these properties, we believed segment differentiation would be appropriate based on the different economic and legal structures used to acquire and own those assets. Prior to the acquisition, we operated through one reportable segment  investment in real estate  which included the triple-net leased properties and our MOBs. Our MOB business consists of leasing space primarily to physicians and other healthcare businesses and engaging third parties to manage those operations. Due to our limited operation of and allocation of capital to the MOBs, we separated them from the triple-net leased properties segment. However, the MOB segment is not individually reported and is included in "All Other" because it does not meet the quantitative thresholds of SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" at the current time. See "Note 19Segment Information."
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for income taxes when it is uncertain how an income or expense item should be treated on an income tax return. FIN 48 describes when and in what amount an uncertain tax item should be recorded in the financial statements and provides guidance on recording interest and penalties and accounting and reporting for income taxes in interim periods. We adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See "Note 12Income Taxes."
On January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements." SFAS No. 157 defines fair value and provides guidance for measuring fair value and the necessary disclosures. SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements, but rather applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
SFAS No. 157 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement and should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within levels one and two of the hierarchy) and the reporting entity's own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within level three of the hierarchy).
 
Level one inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Level two inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in level one that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level two inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, other than quoted prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level three inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which are typically based on an entity's own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.
We determined the valuation of our current investments in marketable securities using level one inputs, which utilize quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Additionally, we determined the valuation allowance for loan losses recorded in 2008 based off of level three inputs. See "Note 8Loans Receivable."
In February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 157-2, "Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157" ("FSP No. 157-2"), which delays the adoption date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities. We adopted FSP No. 157-2 on January 1, 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
On January 1, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations," SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51," and FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)" ("APB 14-1").
SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to measure the assets acquired, liabilities assumed (including contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair values on the acquisition date. The statement also requires that acquisition-related transaction costs be expensed as incurred, that acquired research and development value be capitalized and that acquisition-related restructuring costs be capitalized only if they meet certain criteria. SFAS No. 141(R) did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements at the time of adoption.
SFAS No. 160 changes the reporting for minority interests, which now must be characterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of consolidated equity. The calculation of income and earnings per share continues to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent and is characterized as net income attributable to common stockholders. As the ownership of a subsidiary increases or decreases, SFAS No. 160 requires any difference between the consideration paid and the adjustment to the noncontrolling interest balance be recorded as a component of equity in additional paid-in capital, so long as we maintain a controlling ownership interest. All current and prior year amounts have been reclassified to reflect our adoption of SFAS No. 160.
APB 14-1 specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. All current and prior year amounts have been restated to reflect our adoption of APB 14-1. The adoption of APB 14-1 did not have any impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for any years prior to 2006.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Note 3Revenues from Properties
Triple-Net Leased Properties
Approximately 25.5%, 30.8% and 51.6% of our total revenues and 38.0%, 41.5% and 52.3% of our total NOI (net operating income) (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were derived from our four Kindred Master Leases.
 
Approximately 12.8%, 15.7% and 28.6% of our total revenues and 19.2%, 21.2% and 29.0% of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were derived from our lease agreements with Brookdale Senior Living. Each of the Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living is a triple-net lease pursuant to which the tenant is required to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repairs related to the properties. In addition, the tenants are required to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties.
Each of Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living is subject to the reporting requirements of the Commission and is required to file with the Commission annual reports containing audited financial information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. The information related to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from filings made by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living, as the case may be, with the Commission or other publicly available information, or has been provided to us by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living. We have not verified this information either through an independent investigation or by reviewing Kindred's or Brookdale Senior Living's public filings. We have no reason to believe that this information is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot assure you that all of this information is accurate. Kindred's and Brookdale Senior Living's filings with the Commission can be found at the Commission's website at www.sec.gov. We are providing this data for informational purposes only, and you are encouraged to obtain Kindred's and Brookdale Senior Living's publicly available filings from the Commission.
Under each Kindred Master Lease, the aggregate annual rent is referred to as Base Rent (as defined in the applicable Kindred Master Lease). Base Rent escalates on May 1 of each year at a specified rate over the Prior Period Base Rent (as defined in the applicable Kindred Master Lease), contingent upon the satisfaction of the specified facility revenue parameters. The annual rent escalator is 2.7% under Kindred Master Leases 1, 3 and 4, and is based on year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index, with a floor of 2.25% and a ceiling of 4%, under Kindred Master Lease 2, in all cases contingent only upon satisfaction of the aforementioned revenue parameters.
.
Kindred Master Leases
The properties leased to Kindred pursuant to the Kindred Master Leases are grouped into bundles, with each bundle containing a varying number of properties. All properties within a bundle have primary terms ranging from ten to fifteen years from May 1, 1998 and, provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to three five-year renewal terms. Kindred has renewed, through April 30, 2013, its leases covering all 57 assets owned by us whose initial base term expired on April 30, 2008. The term for each of ten bundles will expire on April 30, 2010 unless Kindred provides us with a renewal notice with respect to such individual bundle, on or before April 30, 2009. The ten bundles expiring in 2010 contain an aggregate of 109 properties, currently representing $123.9 million of annual Base Rent. Each bundle covers six to 20 assets, including at least one hospital. Kindred is required to continue to perform all of its obligations under the applicable lease for any assets that are not renewed until expiration of the term on April 30, 2010, including without limitation, payment of all rental amounts. For any assets that are not renewed, we will have at least one year to arrange for the repositioning of such assets with new operators. We own or have the rights to all licenses and CONs at the properties, and Kindred has extensive and detailed obligations to cooperate and ensure an orderly transition of all properties to another operator. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in identifying suitable replacement operators or that we will be able to enter into leases with new tenants or operators on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all.
Our leases with Brookdale have primary terms of fifteen years, commencing either January 28, 2004 (in the case of fifteen "Grand Court" properties we acquired in early 2004) or October 19, 2004 (in the case of the properties we acquired in connection with the Provident acquisition), and, provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to two ten-year renewal terms. Our leases with Alterra also have primary terms of fifteen years, commencing either October 20, 2004 or December 16, 2004 (both in the case of properties we acquired in connection with the Provident acquisition), and, provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to two five-year renewal terms. Brookdale Senior Living guarantees all obligations under these leases, and all of our Brookdale Senior Living leases are cross-defaulted.
.
Brookdale Senior Living Leases
Under the terms of the Brookdale leases assumed in connection with the Provident acquisition, Brookdale is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on January 1 of each year, by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year or (ii) 3%. Under the terms of the Brookdale leases with respect to the "Grand Court" properties, Brookdale is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on February 1 of each year, by an amount equal to the greater of (i) 2% or (ii) 75% of the increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year. Under the terms of the Alterra leases, Alterra is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates either on January 1 or November 1 of each year by an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately preceding year or (ii) 2.5%. We recognize rent revenue under the Brookdale and Alterra leases on a straight-line basis. See "Note 13Commitments and Contingencies."
 
The future contracted minimum rentals, excluding contingent rent escalations, but with straight-line rents where applicable, for all of our triple-net leases are as follows (table has not been updated to reflect discontinued operations treatment for all properties sold during the first six months of 2009):
 
Senior Living Operations
Approximately 20.0% of our EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and 45.4% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2008 were attributable to senior living operations managed by Sunrise. Approximately 36.2% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2007 were attributable to senior living operations managed by Sunrise for the period from April 26, 2007 (the date of the Sunrise REIT acquisition) through December 31, 2007.
We are party to management agreements with Sunrise pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing communities. Each management agreement has a term of 30 years from its effective date, the earliest of which began in 2004. Pursuant to the management agreements, we pay Sunrise a base management fee of 6% of resident fees and similar revenues, subject to reduction based on below target performance relative to NOI for a pool of properties. The minimum management fee assessable under these agreements is 5% of resident fees and similar revenues of the properties. We also pay incentive fees if a pool of properties exceeds aggregate performance targets relative to NOI; provided, however, that total management fees, including incentive fees, shall not exceed 8% of resident fees and similar revenues. In 2008, we paid a 5.75% management fee for 71 properties and management fees of between 6% and 10.4% for eight properties. The management agreements also specify that we (or the joint venture to which we are party, as applicable) will reimburse Sunrise for direct or indirect costs necessary to manage our seniors housing communities.
We may terminate our management agreements upon the occurrence of an event of default by Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including the revocation of any licenses or certificates necessary for operation), subject in each case to Sunrise's rights to cure deficiencies. Each management agreement may also be terminated upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise. In addition, if a minimum number of properties fail to achieve a targeted NOI level for a given period, then we may terminate the management agreement on each property in such pool. This targeted NOI level for each property is based upon an expected operating income projection set at the commencement of the management agreement for the applicable property, with such projection escalating annually. However, various legal and contractual considerations may limit or delay our exercise of any or all of these termination rights.
Under the terms of our agreements between us and Sunrise, we have, among other things, a right of first offer to acquire seniors housing communities developed by Sunrise in Canada. In addition, we have a right of first offer to acquire seniors housing communities developed by Sunrise in the United States within a demographically defined radius of any of the properties acquired by us in the Sunrise REIT acquisition. Sunrise has agreed to cooperate with us in connection with our compliance with the REIT rules under the Code, and in connection with our financial reporting obligations.
We own a 75% to 85% ownership interest in 61 of our seniors housing communities pursuant to joint venture agreements, with the noncontrolling interests in these joint ventures being owned by Sunrise. These joint ventures are each managed by a board of managers, which we control. As the controlling member, we have authority to make all decisions for our Sunrise joint ventures except for a limited set of major decisions, which generally include: (a) the merger or disposition of substantially all the assets of the joint venture; (b) the sale of additional interests in the joint venture; (c) the dissolution of
 
the joint venture; (d) the disposition of a senior housing community owned by the joint venture; and (e) the acquisition of any real property. We can generally transfer our interest in a Sunrise joint venture, without consent, to anyone other than large seniors housing operators or their majority investors. Generally, Sunrise must obtain our prior consent for any direct or indirect transfer of its interest in a joint venture. With limited exceptions, profits and losses of the joint venture are allocated pro rata to each member. If either member fails to make a required capital contribution to a joint venture after notice and a cure period, the non-defaulting member may (i) revoke the capital contribution funding notice, (ii) advance to the joint venture the amount of the required capital contribution on behalf of the defaulting member in the form of a loan to the defaulting member, with all of the defaulting member's subsequent distributions being applied to the loan until repayment in full, or (iii) advance the capital on behalf of the defaulting member with a recalculation of each member's proportionate interest in the joint venture pursuant to the applicable formula in the agreements. Many of our Sunrise joint venture agreements provide for a punitive reduction in the defaulting member's proportionate interest in the event of an advance of capital by a non-defaulting member pursuant to option (iii). The joint ventures are generally limited to incurring new or refinanced mortgage indebtedness in excess of 75% of the market value of its properties.
Sunrise is subject to the reporting requirements of the Commission and is required to file with the Commission annual reports containing audited financial information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. The information related to Sunrise contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from filings made by Sunrise with the Commission or other publicly available information, or has been provided to us by Sunrise. We have not verified this information either through an independent investigation or by reviewing Sunrise's public filings. We have no reason to believe that this information is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot assure you that all of this information is accurate. Sunrise's filings with the Commission can be found at the Commission's website at www.sec.gov. We are providing this data for informational purposes only, and you are encouraged to obtain Sunrise's publicly available filings from the Commission.
Note 4Concentration of Credit Risk
As of December 31, 2008, approximately 38.5%, 21.9% and 14.7% of our properties, based on the gross book value of real estate investments (including assets held for sale), were managed or operated by Sunrise, Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred, respectively. Seniors housing communities and skilled nursing facilities constituted approximately 74.9% and 13.0%, respectively, of our portfolio, based on the gross book value of real estate investments (including assets held for sale), as of December 31, 2008, with the remaining properties consisting of hospitals, MOBs and other healthcare assets. These properties were located in 43 states, with properties in only two states accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations related to properties held for sale at December 31, 2008) during the year ended December 31, 2008, and two Canadian provinces. Properties in two states accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
In view of the fact that Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living lease a substantial portion of our triple-net leased properties and are each a significant source of our revenues and operating income, their financial condition and ability and willingness to satisfy their obligations under their respective leases and other agreements with us, as well as their willingness to renew those leases upon expiration of the terms thereof, have a considerable impact on our results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its obligations under its respective leases and other agreements with us, and any inability or unwillingness on its part to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, on our ability to service our indebtedness and on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a "Material Adverse Effect"). We also cannot assure you that Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will elect to renew its respective leases with us upon expiration of the initial base terms or any renewal terms thereof.
Unlike Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living, Sunrise does not lease properties from us, but rather acts as a property manager for all of our senior living operations. Therefore, while we are not directly exposed to credit risk with Sunrise, Sunrise's inability to efficiently and effectively manage our properties and to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Although we have various rights as owner under the Sunrise management agreements, we rely on Sunrise's personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set resident fees and otherwise operate those properties pursuant to our management agreements. Any adverse developments in Sunrise's business and affairs or financial condition, including without limitation, the acceleration of its indebtedness, the inability to renew or extend its revolving credit facility, the enforcement of default remedies by its counterparties, or the commencement of insolvency proceedings under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code by or against Sunrise could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
 
Note 5Acquisitions of Real Estate Property
The following summarizes our acquisitions in 2008, 2007 and 2006. We completed these acquisitions primarily to invest in additional seniors housing and healthcare properties with an expected yield on investment, as well as to diversify our portfolio and revenue base and reduce our dependence on any single operator, geography or asset type for our revenue.
2008 Acquisitions
We purchased a 47-unit seniors housing community located in Texas for an aggregate purchase price of $5.1 million. The purchase price was allocated to building and improvements based upon estimated fair value. This property is being leased to an affiliate of Capital Senior Living Corporation.
Also throughout 2008, we purchased three MOBs for an aggregate purchase price of $66.8 million, inclusive of assumed debt of $34.6 million at the time of the acquisitions. The purchase price was allocated between land, building and improvements, tenant improvements and lease intangibles of $4.6 million, $59.1 million, $3.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively, based upon their estimated fair values. One of these MOBs is owned through a joint venture with a partner that provides management and leasing services for the property.
Additionally, we entered into an agreement giving us the exclusive right, as part of a joint venture, to develop up to ten identified MOBs on hospital campuses in eight states. This joint venture is with a nationally recognized private developer of MOBs and healthcare facilities. As of December 31, 2008, we had initially invested approximately $8.7 million in two MOBs that were both under development.
Sunrise REIT Acquisition
In 2007, we acquired from Sunrise REIT 77 communities managed by Sunrise for approximately $2.0 billion, including assumption of debt. We acquired a 100% interest in eighteen seniors housing communities and a 75% to 85% interest in 59 additional seniors housing communities, with the noncontrolling interest in those 59 communities being owned by affiliates of Sunrise. Of these 77 communities, 66 are located in metropolitan areas of nineteen U.S. states and eleven are located in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia.
We funded the Sunrise REIT acquisition through $530.0 million of borrowings under a senior interim loan, an equity-backed facility providing for the issuance of 700,000 shares of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, and the assumption of $861.1 million of existing mortgage debt. In May 2007, we completed the sale of 26,910,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our shelf registration statement. We used the net proceeds from the sale ($1.05 billion), along with the proceeds of the disposition of certain of our Kindred assets (see "Note 6Dispositions") and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, to redeem all of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock and to repay our indebtedness under the senior interim loan. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we expensed $5.2 million of preferred stock dividends and issuance costs related to the Series A Senior Preferred Stock and $5.0 million of fees and interest associated with the senior interim loan (the latter of which is included in interest expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007).
Later in 2007, we acquired 80% interests in two seniors housing communities, one located in Staten Island, New York for approximately $25.5 million, inclusive of our share of assumed debt of $15.3 million, and one in Vaughan, Ontario for approximately Cdn $43.6 million, inclusive of our share of assumed construction debt of Cdn $23.3 million. The joint venture for the Vaughan, Ontario property has the ability to borrow an additional Cdn $5.8 million under the existing construction loan for capital improvements.
We incurred $4.5 million and $3.0 million of merger-related expenses (that were not capitalized) in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Merger-related expenses include incremental costs directly related to the acquisition and expenses relating to our litigation with HCP, Inc. ("HCP") (see "Note 15Litigation").
Other 2007 Acquisitions
During 2007, we acquired two additional seniors housing communities for an aggregate purchase price of $18.5 million, inclusive of assumed debt of $9.0 million at the time of the acquisition. The purchase price was allocated between land and buildings and improvements of $0.7 million and $17.8 million, respectively, based upon their estimated fair values. These properties are being leased to affiliates of Senior Care, Inc. ("Senior Care").
Also throughout 2007, we acquired eight MOBs, in seven separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of $150.5 million, inclusive of assumed debt of $21.5 million at the time of the acquisitions. The purchase price was allocated between land and buildings and improvements of $7.6 million and $142.9 million, respectively, based upon their estimated
 
fair values. Five of these MOBs are owned through joint ventures with two different partners that provide management and leasing services for the properties. The joint venture partners have noncontrolling interests in the properties ranging from less than 1% to less than 9%.
Senior Care
In November 2006, we acquired a portfolio of 64 seniors housing and healthcare properties for aggregate consideration of $602.4 million, consisting of approximately $422.6 million in cash, the assumption of $114.8 million of mortgage debt that was repaid in January 2007 and 1,708,279 shares of our common stock. The portfolio includes 40 assisted living communities, four multi-level retirement communities, eighteen skilled nursing facilities and two rehabilitation hospitals in fifteen states.
The properties are being leased to affiliates of Senior Care, pursuant to the terms of a triple-net master lease having an initial term of fifteen years and two five-year extensions. Approximately 5.3% and 6.1% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were derived from our lease agreements with Senior Care.
Other 2006 Acquisitions
Also during 2006, we acquired eight seniors housing communities, in five separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of $74.3 million, including assumed debt of $10.8 million at the time of the acquisitions. The seniors housing communities are leased to various operators under triple-net leases, each having initial terms ranging from ten to fifteen years and initially providing aggregate, annual cash base rent of approximately $6.2 million, subject to escalation as provided in the leases.
 
Unaudited Pro Forma
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if we had consummated our 2008 and 2007 acquisitions and issuances of common stock as of the beginning of each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:
 
Note 6Dispositions
Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," we present separately, as discontinued operations, in all periods presented the results of operations for all assets held for sale or disposed of on or after January 1, 2002.
In June 2009, we sold six skilled nursing facilities to Kindred for total consideration of $58.0 million, consisting of $55.7 million aggregate sales price and a $2.3 million lease termination fee. The proceeds from the purchase price are currently being held in an Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 exchange escrow account with a qualified intermediary. Cash rent for these assets for the May 1, 2008 to April 30, 2009 lease year was approximately $5.6 million. We recognized a net gain from the sale of these assets of $38.9 million in the second quarter of 2009.
During the first quarter of 2009, we sold five seniors housing assets, one hospital and one MOB to the current tenants for an aggregate sales price (before expenses) of $95.5 million in all-cash transactions. We recognized a net gain from the sales of these assets of $27.8 million in the first quarter of 2009.
In December 2008, we sold five seniors housing communities to the current tenant for an aggregate sale price of $62.5 million. We realized a gain from the sale of these assets of $21.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, $8.3 million of which was deferred and will be recognized over the next three years. The deferred gain resulted from a $10.0 million loan that we made to the buyer in conjunction with the sale. See "Note 8Loans Receivable" for further discussion on this loan.
In April 2008, we sold seven properties for $69.1 million. We recognized a net gain from the sale of these assets of $25.9 million in the second quarter of 2008. In addition, we received a lease termination fee from the tenant of $1.6 million.
 
In June 2007, we completed the sale of 22 properties to Kindred for $171.5 million in net cash proceeds. Of these net proceeds, $14.1 million was held in escrow for use in a Code Section 1031 exchange and subsequently used in the second half of 2007 for other acquisitions. See "Note 5Acquisitions." In addition, Kindred paid us a lease termination fee of $3.5 million. We recognized a net gain on the sale of assets of $129.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2007.
We did not make any dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2006.
Set forth below is a summary of the results of operations of properties sold or held for sale during the three months ended March 31, 2009 and the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, all of which were included in our triple-net leased properties segment, with the exception of one MOB held for sale at December 31, 2008 (included in all other for segment reporting purposes):
 
Note 7Intangibles
At December 31, 2008, intangible lease assets, comprised of above market resident leases, in-place resident leases and other intangibles, were $7.4 million, $88.6 million and $2.2 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007, intangible lease assets, comprised of above market resident leases, in-place resident leases and other intangibles, were $7.3 million, $81.2 million and $2.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the accumulated amortization of the intangible assets was $89.2 and $58.4 million, respectively. The weighted average amortization period of intangible assets at December 31, 2008 was approximately five years.
At December 31, 2008, intangible lease liabilities, comprised of below market resident leases, were $12.2 million. At December 31, 2007, intangible lease liabilities, comprised of below market resident leases, were $9.8 million. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the accumulated amortization of the intangible liabilities was $10.0 million and $6.6 million, respectively. The weighted average amortization period of intangible liabilities at December 31, 2008 was approximately five years.
Note 8Loans Receivable
On June 30, 2008, we purchased $112.5 million principal amount of first mortgage debt issued by a national provider of healthcare services, primarily skilled nursing care. We purchased the debt at a discount for $98.8 million, resulting in an effective interest rate to maturity of LIBOR plus 533 basis points. Interest on the loan is payable monthly at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 125 basis points, and the loan matures in January 2012, subject to a one-year extension, at the borrower's option, subject to certain conditions.
As of December 31, 2008, we held a receivable for three outstanding first mortgage loans (the "Sunwest Loans") in the aggregate principal amount of $20.0 million. These loans, made in 2005, originally accrued interest at a non-default annual rate of 9%. During the third quarter of 2008, the borrowers defaulted on certain of their obligations under the Sunwest Loans, including the monthly payment of principal and interest to us. The Sunwest Loans are secured by four seniors housing communities containing approximately 300 units and are jointly and severally guaranteed by Sunwest Management, Inc. ("Sunwest") and two of its principals. We have appointed receivers at, and initiated foreclosure actions on, each asset
 
securing the Sunwest Loans. We have also commenced a collection and enforcement action against the guarantors. One of the principal guarantors has filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and our action to collect under his guarantee is currently stayed. We intend to vigorously pursue all of our rights and remedies and take all appropriate actions to fully recover amounts due to us under the Sunwest Loans and the guarantees. However, due to the current unfavorable capital markets and economic environment, we recorded a provision for loan losses on the Sunwest Loans of $6.0 million, which was based on estimated discounted cash flows and other valuation metrics, including the fair value of the collateral. This amount is included as a component of property-level operating expenses on our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2008. Although we cannot give any assurances regarding the value of our recovery on the collateral for the Sunwest Loans, we currently anticipate the estimated fair value of the foreclosed assets, if foreclosure proceedings are successful, we may take ownership of the facilities and engage healthcare operators to operate the facilities under a management or lease arrangement, or we may sell one or more of the facilities. These loans were classified as non-accrual in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the accrual of interest was discontinued.
In December 2008, we sold five assets for $62.5 million, and the buyer issued a $10.0 million note to us as partial payment of the purchase price. The loan is payable in full in December 2011. Principal payments of $40,000 and interest payments at a rate of 8% in year one, 8.25% in year two and 8.5% in year three, are due and payable to us monthly. We recorded the loan, which is guaranteed by a publicly traded company and secured by real estate collateral, at its fair market value of $8.3 million and will amortize the discount to interest income over the next three years.
Note 9Borrowing Arrangements
The following is a summary of our long-term debt and certain interest rate and maturity information as of December 31, 2008 and 2007:
 
 
Unsecured Revolving Credit Facilities
We currently have $850.0 million of unsecured revolving credit facilities that mature on April 26, 2010, comprised of a $700.0 million U.S. credit facility and a $150.0 million Canadian credit facility. Under the Canadian credit facility, we may borrow up to $150.0 million or the equivalent in Canadian dollars. The U.S. credit facility includes a $150.0 million "accordion" feature that permits us to further expand our aggregate borrowing capacity to $1.0 billion upon satisfaction of certain conditions.
Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum (based on U.S. or Canadian LIBOR, the Canadian Bankers' Acceptance rate, or the U.S. or Canadian Prime rate) plus an applicable percentage based on our consolidated leverage. The applicable percentage was 0.75% at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
 
Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. ("Lehman") is a named lender under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and has a $20 million funding commitment (approximately 2% of the aggregate borrowing capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facilities) to us. Lehman has defaulted on its obligations to fund our borrowing requests, and we are seeking an assignment of this portion of our unsecured revolving credit facilities, through Lehman's Chapter 11 proceeding, to a third party investor who we believe represents the economic interest in such obligation. We cannot give any assurances as to whether or when an assignment of Lehman's interest in our unsecured revolving credit facilities may occur.
We incurred losses on extinguishment of debt in the amount of $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 representing the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs related to our previous secured revolving credit facility.
Convertible Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2008, we had $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3
 7
/
8
 
% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (the "Convertible Notes") outstanding. The Convertible Notes are convertible at the option of the holder (i) prior to September 15, 2011, upon the occurrence of specified events and (ii) on or after September 11, 2011, at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to the stated maturity, in each case into cash up to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and cash or shares of our common stock, at our election, in respect of any conversion value in excess of the principal amount at the current conversion rate of 22.6262 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which equates to a conversion price of approximately $44.20 per share). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of a quarterly dividend in excess of $0.395 per share. To the extent the market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, our earnings per share will be diluted. The Convertible Notes had a minimal dilutive impact per share for the year ended December 31, 2008. See "Note 14Earnings Per Share."
The Convertible Notes are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by Ventas Realty and by certain of our other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The Convertible Notes are part of our and the guarantors' general unsecured obligations, ranking equal in right of payment with all of our and the guarantors' existing and future senior obligations and ranking senior to all of our and the guarantors' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, the Convertible Notes are effectively subordinated to our and the guarantors' secured indebtedness, if any, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The Convertible Notes are also structurally subordinated to preferred equity and indebtedness, whether secured or unsecured, of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Convertible Notes.
We may not redeem the Convertible Notes prior to maturity except to the extent necessary to preserve our status as a REIT.
If we experience certain kinds of changes of control, holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Convertible Notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase.
Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2008, we had the following series of senior notes (collectively, the "Senior Notes") issued by our subsidiaries, Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Issuers"), outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We issued the 2016 Senior Notes and 2017 Senior Notes at initial discounts to par value of
 1
/
2
% and
 5
/
8
%, respectively. We issued $50 million of our 2014 Senior Notes at a 1% discount to par value.
During 2008, we purchased $124.4 million principal amount of 2009 Senior Notes and $52.0 million principal amount of 2010 Senior Notes in open market transactions and reported a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $2.5 million. In August 2007, we purchased $5.0 million principal amount of 2015 Senior Notes in an open market transaction and reported a gain on extinguishment of debt of $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2007.
The Senior Notes are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by us and by certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. The Senior Notes are part of our and the guarantors' general unsecured obligations, ranking equal in right of payment with all of our and the guarantors' existing and future senior obligations and ranking senior to all of our and the guarantors' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, the Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to our and the guarantors' secured indebtedness, if any, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The Senior Notes are also structurally subordinated to the preferred equity and indebtedness, whether secured or unsecured, of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Senior Notes.
The Issuers may redeem each series of Senior Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, prior to maturity at varying redemption prices set forth in the applicable indenture, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date. In addition, at certain times, the Issuers may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of each series of Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds from certain equity offerings at the redemption price set forth in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
If we experience certain kinds of changes of control, the Issuers must make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase; provided, however, that in the event Moody's Investors Service and S&P Ratings Services have confirmed their ratings at Ba3 or higher and BB- or higher on the Senior Notes and certain other conditions are met, this repurchase obligation will not apply.
Mortgages
At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding 113 mortgage loans totaling $1.47 billion that are collateralized by the underlying assets of the properties. The loans generally bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 5.4% to 8.5% per annum, except for fourteen loans having aggregate outstanding principal balances totaling $246.2 million which bear interest at the lender's variable rates ranging from 1.1% to 3.9% per annum as of December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the weighted average annual rate on our fixed rate mortgage loans was 6.4%, and the weighted average annual rate on our variable rate mortgage loans was 2.4%. The loans had a weighted average maturity of 7.0 years as of December 31, 2008.
Scheduled Maturities of Borrowing Arrangements and Other Provisions
As of December 31, 2008, our indebtedness had the following maturities (in thousands):
 
 
 
The principal amounts due at maturity above reflect our intent to extend $54.5 million of 2009 maturities to 2010 as a result of extension options with the lenders. In connection with the disposition of a property subsequent to December 31, 2008, $7.3 million of 2009 maturities were transferred to the buyer, so the as adjusted 2009 principal amounts due at maturity are $118.1 million.
As of December 31, 2008, our joint venture partners' share of total debt was $159.9 million.
The instruments governing certain of our indebtedness contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, (i) incur debt; (ii) make certain dividends, distributions and investments; (iii) enter into certain transactions; (iv) merge, consolidate or transfer certain assets; and (v) sell assets. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also required to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of this group's unsecured debt. Our unsecured revolving credit facilities also require us to maintain certain financial covenants pertaining to, among other things, our consolidated leverage, secured debt, fixed charge coverage and net worth.
As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all of these covenants.
Derivatives and Hedging
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to the effect of interest rate movements on future cash flows under our variable rate debt agreements and the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements. We limit these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivative instruments.
For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used primarily to fix the rate on debt based on floating rate indices and to manage the cost of borrowing obligations. We prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Further, we have a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivative is designed to hedge, we do not anticipate any material adverse effect on our net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
The interest rate swap agreement that we entered into in 2001 expired on June 30, 2008, and we do not currently have any interest rate swap agreements in effect.
In January 2007, we entered into two Canadian call options in conjunction with our agreement to acquire the assets of Sunrise REIT. See "Note 5Acquisitions." We paid an aggregate purchase price of $8.5 million for these contracts, which had an aggregate notional call amount of Cdn $750.0 million at a Cdn $1.18 strike price. These contracts were settled on April 26, 2007, the acquisition date, and we received cash of $33.2 million upon settlement. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized gains related to call option contracts of $24.3 million, which is included as a foreign currency gain on our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Unamortized Fair Value Adjustment
As of December 31, 2008, the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the long-term debt we assumed in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition and various MOB acquisitions was $14.3 million and is recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instruments. The estimated aggregate amortization of the fair value adjustment related to long-term debt for each of the next five years follows: 2009  $2.8 million; 2010  $2.9 million; 2011  $2.9 million; 2012  $2.3 million; and 2013  $1.4 million.
 
Note 10Fair Values of Financial Instruments
As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying amounts and fair values of our financial instruments were as follows:
 
Fair value estimates are subjective in nature and depend on a number of important assumptions, including estimates of future cash flows, risks, discount rates and relevant comparable market information associated with each financial instrument. The use of different market assumptions and estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the reported estimated fair value amounts. Accordingly, the estimates presented above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts we would realize in a current market exchange.
Note 11Stock-Based Compensation
Compensation Plans
We have six plans under which options to purchase common stock and/or shares or units of restricted stock have been, or may be, granted to officers, employees and non-employee directors, one plan under which executive officers may receive common stock in lieu of compensation and two plans under which certain directors have received or may receive common stock in lieu of director fees (the following are collectively referred to as the "Plans"): (1) the 1987 Incentive Compensation Program (Employee Plan); (2) the 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan (Employee Plan); (3) the 2004 Stock Plan for Directors; (4) the TheraTx, Incorporated 1996 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan; (5) the Common Stock Purchase Plan for Directors (the "Directors Stock Purchase Plan"); (6) the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; (7) the Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; (8) the 2006 Incentive Plan; and (9) the 2006 Stock Plan for Directors.
During the year ended December 31, 2008, option and restricted stock grants and stock issuances could only be made under the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the 2006 Incentive Plan and the 2006 Stock Plan for Directors. The 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan (Employee Plan) and the 2004 Stock Plan for Directors expired on December 31, 2006, and no additional grants were permitted under those Plans after that date. Additional grants are also not permitted under the 1987 Incentive Compensation Program (Employee Plan) or the TheraTx, Incorporated 1996 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan. In addition, the Directors Stock Purchase Plan terminated in accordance with its terms during 2007.
The number of shares reserved and the number of shares available for future grants or issuance under these Plans as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Under the Plans (other than the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the Directors Stock Purchase Plan and the Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan), options are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant, expire ten years from the date of grant, and vest over varying periods ranging from one to five years. Vesting of certain options may accelerate upon a change of control of Ventas, as defined in the applicable Plan, and other events.
We have also granted options and restricted stock to certain officers, employees and non-employee directors outside of the Plans. These options and shares of restricted stock vest over varying periods, and the options are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant and expire ten years from the date of grant. As of December 31, 2008, options for 4,000 shares had been granted outside of the Plans to certain non-employee directors and remained outstanding.
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value provisions for share-based awards pursuant to SFAS No. 123(R), using the modified-prospective transition method. Under that transition method, compensation cost recognized in 2006 includes: (i) compensation cost for all share-based awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the attribution method and grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and (ii) compensation cost for all share-based awards granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value as estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), all recognized on a straight-line basis as the requisite service periods are rendered. Results for prior periods have not been restated. Compensation costs related to stock options for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $2.3 million, $1.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
Stock Options
In determining the estimated fair value of our stock options as of the date of grant, we used the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:
 
The following is a summary of stock option activity in 2008:
 
 
A summary of the status of our nonvested stock options as of December 31, 2008 and changes during the year then ended follows:
 
As of December 31, 2008, there was $912,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options granted under the Plans. We expect to recognize that cost over a weighted average period of 1.2 years. Proceeds received from options exercised under the Plans for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $6.2 million, $9.5 million and $6.6 million, respectively.
Restricted Stock
The market value of shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units on the date of the award is recognized as stock-based compensation expense over the service period, with charges to general and administrative expenses of approximately $7.7 million in 2008, $5.6 million in 2007 and $2.1 million in 2006. Restricted stock generally vests over two- to five-year periods. The vesting of certain restricted shares may accelerate upon a change of control of Ventas, as defined in the applicable Plan, and other events.
A summary of the status of our nonvested restricted stock units and restricted stock as of December 31, 2008, and changes during the year ended December 31, 2008 follows:
 
As of December 31, 2008, there was $10.5 million unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock under the Plans. We expect to recognize that cost over a weighted average of 2.0 years.
Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan
We have in effect an Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") under which our employees and directors may purchase shares of our common stock at a discount. Pursuant to the terms of the ESPP, on each purchase date, participants may purchase shares of common stock at a price not less than 90% of the market price on that date, with respect to the employee tax-favored portion of the plan, and not less than 95% of the market price on that date, with respect to the additional employee and director portion of the plan. We have reserved 2,500,000 shares for issuance under the ESPP. As of December 31, 2008, 24,856 shares had been purchased under the ESPP and 2,475,144 shares were available for future issuance.
Employee Benefit Plan
We maintain a 401(K) plan that allows for eligible employees to defer compensation subject to certain limitations imposed by the Code. We make a contribution for each qualifying employee of up to 3% of his or her salary, subject to limitations, regardless of the employee's individual contribution. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, our contributions were approximately $164,000, $106,000 and $85,600, respectively.
 
Note 12Income Taxes
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code commencing with the year ended December 31, 1999. We have elected for certain of our subsidiaries to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRS" or "TRS entities"), which are subject to federal and state income taxes. The TRS entities were created or acquired in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition. All entities other than the TRS entities are collectively referred to as "the REIT" within this Note 12.
We intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to enable us to qualify as a REIT. Our actual qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet, on a continuing basis, distribution levels, stock ownership, and the various qualification tests. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our tax treatment of distributions per common share was as follows:
 
No net provision for income taxes was recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2006 due to our belief that we qualified as a REIT and the distribution of more than 100% of our 2006 taxable income as a dividend. We believe we have met the annual distribution requirement by payment of at least 90% of our estimated taxable income for 2008, 2007 and 2006. As a result of the TRS entities created and acquired in 2007, the consolidated provision (benefit) for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 is as follows (in thousands):
 
The deferred tax benefit for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was reduced by income tax expense of $1.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively, related to the noncontrolling interest share of net income. For the tax years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Canadian income tax benefit included in the consolidated benefit for income taxes was $3.1 million and $7.2 million, respectively.
Although the TRS entities did not pay any federal income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2008, federal income tax payments for these TRS entities may increase in future years as we exhaust net operating loss carryforwards and as our senior living operations segment grows. Such increases could be significant.
 
Income tax expense computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 is reconciled to the income tax benefit as follows (in thousands):
 
The REIT made no income tax payments for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2006. Tax payments of $2.1 million related to built-in gains tax were made for the year ended December 31, 2007.
In connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we established a beginning net deferred tax liability of $306.3 million related to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities acquired (primarily property and related assets, net of net operating loss carryforwards).
Each TRS is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards included in the net deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
Due to the uncertainty of the realization of certain deferred tax assets, we established valuation allowances. The majority of these valuation allowances related to the net operating loss ("NOL") carryforward related to the REIT where there was uncertainty regarding its realization.
The net difference between tax bases and the reported amount of REIT assets and liabilities for federal income tax purposes was approximately $497.1 million and $485.1 million less than the book bases of those assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
We are subject to corporate level taxes for any asset dispositions during the ten-year period immediately after the assets were owned by a C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, through stock acquisition or merger) ("built-in gains tax"). The amount of income potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of (i) the excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset or (ii) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all future gains could be offset by available NOLs. We had a $23.3 million deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2007 to be utilized for any built-in gains tax related to the disposition of assets owned prior to our REIT election in 1999. The ten-year period in which these assets were subject to built-in gains tax ended on December 31, 2008. Because we did not have any dispositions of these assets through December 31, 2008, we do not expect to pay any amounts related to this contingent liability. Therefore, this contingent liability was no longer required, and $23.3 million was reversed into income during 2008.
Generally, we are subject to audit under the statute of limitations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for the year ended December 31, 2005 and subsequent years and are subject to audit by state taxing authorities for the year ended December 31, 2004 and subsequent years. The potential impact on income tax expense of years open under the statute of limitations for Canadian entities acquired as part of the Sunrise REIT acquisition is not expected to be material.
During 2006, we were notified by the IRS that it had completed its audit of our 2001 federal tax return with no additional tax being due. Accordingly, our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflects the reversal into income of a previously recorded $1.8 million tax liability related to uncertainties surrounding the outcome of that audit.
 
We have a combined NOL carryforward of $109.7 million at December 31, 2008 related to the TRS entities and an NOL carryforward related to the REIT of $88.6 million. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if audits of any prior year's return determine that amounts are owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for dividends paid. The NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2024 with respect to the TRS entities and in 2020 for the REIT.
As a result of the uncertainties relating to the ultimate utilization of existing REIT NOLs, no net deferred tax benefit has been ascribed to REIT NOL carryforwards as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The IRS may challenge our entitlement to these tax attributes during its review of the tax returns for the previous tax years. We believe we are entitled to these tax attributes, but we cannot give any assurances as to the outcome of these matters.
On January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48. As a result of applying the provisions of FIN 48, we recognized no change in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and no adjustment in accumulated earnings as of January 1, 2007. Our policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.
The following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits (in thousands):
 
Included in the unrecognized tax benefits of $12.9 million at December 31, 2008 was $12.9 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We accrued no penalties. Interest of $360,000 related to the unrecognized tax benefits was accrued during 2008. We expect our unrecognized tax benefits to increase by $3.0 million during 2009.
Note 13Commitments and Contingencies
Assumption of Certain Operating Liabilities and Litigation
As a result of the structure of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we may be subject to various liabilities of Sunrise REIT arising out of the ownership or operation of the Sunrise REIT properties prior to the acquisition. If the liabilities we have assumed are greater than expected, or if there are obligations relating to the Sunrise REIT properties of which we were not aware at the time of completion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, such liabilities and/or obligations could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Similarly, in connection with Provident's acquisition of certain Brookdale-related and Alterra-related entities in 2005 and our subsequent acquisition of Provident, Brookdale and Alterra agreed, among other things, to indemnify and hold Provident (and, as a result of the Provident acquisition, us) harmless from and against certain liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of such entities prior to their acquisition by Provident.
We cannot give any assurances that Kindred or such Brookdale Senior Living subsidiaries will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy, or that they will be willing to satisfy, their respective obligations under these arrangements. If Kindred or such Brookdale Senior Living subsidiaries do not satisfy or otherwise honor their respective obligations to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless under their respective contractual arrangements with us, then we may be liable for the payment and performance of such obligations and may have to assume the defense of such claims or litigation, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Brookdale Leases
Subject to certain limitations and restrictions, and provided Brookdale has not waived its rights, if during the first six years of the initial term of our Brookdale leases (affecting 21 properties) assumed in connection with the Provident acquisition (i.e., through December 2010) we, either voluntarily or at Brookdale's request, obtain new mortgage debt or
 
refinance existing mortgage debt on property covered by a Brookdale lease, then we may be required to pay Brookdale the net proceeds from any such mortgage debt financing or refinancing. Also, subject to certain limitations and conditions, and provided Brookdale has not waived its rights, Brookdale may request that we obtain new mortgage debt or refinance existing mortgage debt on the property covered by the Brookdale leases, and we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to pursue any such financing or refinancing from the holder of the then existing mortgage debt on the applicable Brookdale property. In connection with any such financing or refinancing, the rent for the applicable Brookdale property will be increased using a recomputed lease basis increased by an amount equal to the net financed proceeds paid to Brookdale plus (with limited exceptions) any fees, penalties, premiums or other costs related to such financing or refinancing. If the monthly debt service on any financed or refinanced proceeds paid to Brookdale exceeds the rent increase attributable to those financed or refinanced proceeds, then Brookdale is required to pay the excess. In addition, under certain circumstances, Brookdale will also be required to pay additional amounts relating to increases in debt service and other costs relating to any such financing or refinancing.
 
Note 14Earnings Per Share
The following table shows the amounts used in computing basic and diluted earnings per common share:
 
There were 940,500, 222,200, 11,500 anti-dilutive options outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Note 15Litigation
Legal Proceedings Defended and Indemnified by Third Parties
Kindred, Brookdale, Alterra, Sunrise and our other tenants, operators and managers are parties to certain legal actions and regulatory investigations arising in the normal course of their business. In certain cases, the tenant, operator or manager, as applicable, has agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless against these actions and investigations. We cannot assure you that the resolution of any litigation or investigations, either individually or in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on Kindred's, Brookdale's, Alterra's, Sunrise's or such other tenants', operators' and managers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Litigation Related to the Sunrise REIT Acquisition
On May 3, 2007, we filed a lawsuit against HCP, Inc. ("HCP") in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, entitled, Case No. 07-cv-238-JGH. We assert claims of tortious interference with contract and tortious interference with prospective business advantage. The complaint alleges that HCP interfered with
Ventas, Inc. v. HCP, Inc.
 
our purchase agreement to acquire the assets and liabilities of Sunrise REIT and with the process for unitholder consideration of the purchase agreement. The complaint alleges, among other things, that HCP made certain improper and misleading public statements and/or offers to acquire Sunrise REIT and that HCP's actions caused us to suffer substantial damages, including, among other things, the payment of materially greater consideration to acquire Sunrise REIT resulting from the substantial increase in the purchase price that was agreed to in the original purchase agreement and the delay in closing the acquisition, as well as the negative movements in the foreign currency exchange rates and the per share price of our common equity during such delay. We are seeking monetary relief and punitive damages against HCP. On July 2, 2007, HCP filed its response to our complaint, along with a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. On December 19, 2007, the District Court denied HCP's motion to dismiss. On April 8, 2008, HCP filed a motion requesting permission from the District Court to add a counterclaim against us. The counterclaim alleges that Sunrise REIT failed to conduct a fair sale process when it put itself up for sale in 2006 and that we, as the alleged successor to Sunrise REIT, are now responsible for those actions. On July 25, 2008, the District Court granted HCP's motion to amend its answer to include the counterclaim. HCP is seeking compensatory and punitive damages. On November 13, 2008, HCP filed a motion requesting permission to amend its counterclaim to assert an additional count for an alleged negligent misrepresentation made by Sunrise REIT for which HCP contends that we, as the alleged successor of Sunrise REIT, are responsible. On December 8, 2008, the District Court granted HCP permission to amend its counterclaim, subject to our right to file a motion challenging all of HCP's counterclaims on the pleadings. On December 23, 2008, we filed a motion challenging all of HCP's counterclaims on the pleadings. That motion is pending. The District Court has scheduled a trial by jury in this matter to commence August 18, 2009. We intend to pursue our claims in the action and contest HCP's counterclaim (which we believe has no merit) vigorously, although we cannot assure you that we will prevail in the action, or, if we do prevail, of the amount of recovery that may be awarded to us or if we do not prevail, the amount that we may be required to pay. We are unable at this time to estimate the possible loss or range of loss for the potential counterclaim in this action, and therefore, no provision for liability, if any, resulting from this litigation has been made in our Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2008.
Other Litigation
We are a plaintiff in an action seeking a declaratory judgment and damages entitled, Case No. 99 C107076, filed November 22, 1999 in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Kentucky. Two of the defendants have asserted counterclaims against us under theories of breach of contract, tortious interference with contract and abuse of process. We dispute the material allegations contained in the counterclaims and we intend to continue to pursue our claims and defend the counterclaims vigorously. We do not expect to suffer any loss for the counterclaims in this action, and therefore, no provision for liability resulting from this litigation has been made in our Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2008.
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership et al. v. Black Diamond CLO 1998-1 Ltd., et al.
We are party to various other lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which may not be insured) arising in the normal course of our business, including without limitation, in connection with the operations of our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise. It is the opinion of management that, except as set forth in this Note 15, the disposition of these actions, investigations and claims will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect on us. However, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, investigations and claims, and if management's assessment of our liability with respect to these actions, investigations and claims is incorrect, such actions, investigations and claims could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Note 16Capital Stock
At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our authorized capital stock consisted of 300,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per share, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.
In 2008, we sold 9,236,083 shares of our common stock in underwritten public offerings pursuant to our existing universal shelf registration statement. We received $408.5 million in net proceeds from the sales, which we used to repay indebtedness outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
In May 2007, we completed the sale of 26,910,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to our existing universal shelf registration statement. We received $1.05 billion in net proceeds from the sale, which we used along with the proceeds of the disposition of the Kindred assets (see "Note 6Dispositions") and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility to redeem all of our outstanding Series A Senior Preferred Stock and to repay our indebtedness under the senior interim loan used to fund a portion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition.
 
Our automatic universal shelf registration statement, filed with the Commission in April 2006, relates to the sale, from time to time, of an indeterminate amount of debt securities and related guarantees, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The registration statement expires in April 2009 pursuant to the Commission's rules, and we intend to replace it with a new universal shelf registration statement upon expiration.
Excess Share Provision
In order to preserve our ability to maintain REIT status, our Certificate of Incorporation provides that if a person acquires beneficial ownership of greater than 9% of our outstanding common stock or 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of such limit are deemed to be excess shares. These shares are automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors. The trust is entitled to all dividends with respect to the shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the shares.
We have the right to buy the excess shares for a purchase price equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares, or (ii) the market price on the date we buy the shares, and we may defer payment of the purchase price for the excess shares for up to five years. If we do not purchase the excess shares, the trustee of the trust is required to transfer the excess shares at the direction of the Board of Directors. The owner of the excess shares is entitled to receive the lesser of the proceeds from the sale of the excess shares or the original purchase price for such excess shares; any additional amounts are payable to the beneficiary of the trust.
The Board of Directors is empowered to grant waivers from the excess share provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation.
Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
We have in effect a Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan ("DRIP"), under which existing stockholders may purchase shares of common stock by reinvesting all or a portion of the cash distribution on their shares of our common stock. In addition, existing stockholders, as well as new investors, may purchase shares of common stock under the DRIP by making optional cash payments. We currently offer a 1% discount on the purchase price of our stock to shareholders who reinvest their dividends and/or make optional cash purchases of common stock through the DRIP. The amount and availability of this discount is at our discretion. The granting of a discount for one month or quarter, as applicable, will not insure the availability or amount of a discount in future periods, and each month or quarter, as applicable, we may lower or eliminate the discount without prior notice. We may also, without prior notice, change our determination as to whether common shares will be purchased by the plan administrator directly from us or in the open market.
Note 17Related Party Transactions
During 1998, we acquired eight personal care facilities and related facilities for approximately $7.1 million from Tangram Rehabilitation Network, Inc. ("Tangram"). Tangram is a wholly owned subsidiary of Res-Care, Inc. ("Res-Care") of which a member of our Board of Directors is the Chairman of the Board. We lease the Tangram facilities to Tangram pursuant to a master lease agreement which is guaranteed by Res-Care. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Tangram has paid us approximately $949,800, $917,000 and $897,000, respectively, in base rent payments.
At December 31, 2007, we had loans receivable of approximately $2.1 million, due from certain current and former executive officers. Both of these loans had been repaid in full as of December 31, 2008.
 
Note 18Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
Summarized unaudited consolidated quarterly information for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 is provided below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 19Segment Information
As of December 31, 2008, we operated through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. Our triple-net leased properties segment consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and leasing those properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior living operations segment consists of investments in seniors housing communities located in the United States and Canada for which we engage Sunrise to manage the operations.
We acquired the senior living operations segment on April 26, 2007, pursuant to the purchase of the Sunrise REIT properties. With the addition of these properties, we believed segment differentiation would be appropriate based on the different economic and legal structures used to acquire and own those assets. Prior to the acquisition, we operated through one reportable segment  investment in real estate  which included the triple-net leased properties and our MOBs. Our MOB segment consists of leasing space primarily to physicians and other healthcare businesses and engaging third parties to manage those operations. Due to our limited operation of and allocation of capital to the MOBs, we separated them from the triple-net leased properties segment. However, the MOBs segment is not individually reported and is included in "All Other" because it does not meet the quantitative thresholds of SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" at the current time.
We evaluate performance of the combined properties in each segment based on net operating income before interest (excluding income from loans and investments), income taxes, depreciation and amortization, rent reset costs, reversal of contingent liability, foreign currency gains/losses, general, administrative and professional fees, merger-related expenses and noncontrolling interest. There are no intersegment sales or transfers.
 
All other revenues consist primarily of rental income related to the MOBs, income from loans and investments and other miscellaneous income. All other assets consist primarily of MOB assets and corporate assets including cash, restricted cash, deferred financing costs, notes receivable, and miscellaneous accounts receivable.
Summary information by business segment is as follows:
For the year ended December 31, 2008:
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
Our portfolio of properties and real estate investments are located in the United States and Canada. Revenues are attributed to an individual country based on the location of each property.
Geographic information regarding our business segments is as follows:
 
 
Note 20Condensed Consolidating Information
We and certain of our direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors") have fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to the Senior Notes of the Issuers. Ventas Capital Corporation is a wholly owned direct subsidiary of Ventas Realty that was formed to facilitate the offering of the Senior Notes and has no assets or operations. In addition, Ventas Realty and the Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors have fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to our Convertible Notes. ETOP, of which we own substantially all of the partnership units, and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries (the "ETOP Subsidiary Guarantors" and collectively, with the Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors, the "Guarantors"), have also provided a guarantee, on a joint and several basis, of the Senior Notes and the Convertible Notes. We have other subsidiaries ("Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries") that are not included among the Guarantors, and such subsidiaries are not obligated with respect to the Senior Notes or the Convertible Notes. Contractual and legal restrictions, including those contained in the instruments governing certain Non-Guarantor
 
Subsidiaries' outstanding indebtedness, may under certain circumstances restrict our ability to obtain cash from our Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries for the purpose of meeting our debt service obligations, including our guarantee of payment of principal and interest on the Senior Notes and our primary obligation to pay principal and interest on the Convertible Notes. Certain of our real estate assets are also subject to mortgages. The following summarizes our condensed consolidating information as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 21ETOP Condensed Consolidating Information
ETOP, of which we own substantially all of the partnership interests, and the ETOP Subsidiary Guarantors have provided full and unconditional guarantees, on a joint and several basis with us and certain of our direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, of the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to the Senior Notes and the Convertible Notes. See "Note 20Condensed Consolidating Information." Certain of ETOP's other direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries (the "ETOP Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries") have not provided a guarantee of the Senior Notes or the Convertible Notes and, therefore, are not directly obligated with respect to the Senior Notes or the Convertible Notes.
Contractual and legal restrictions, including those contained in the instruments governing certain of the ETOP Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries' outstanding indebtedness, may under certain circumstances restrict ETOP's (and therefore our) ability to obtain cash from the ETOP Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries for the purpose of satisfying ETOP's and our debt service obligations, including ETOP's and our guarantee of payment of principal and interest on the Senior Notes and our primary obligation to pay principal and interest on the Convertible Notes. See "Note 9Borrowing Arrangements." Certain of the ETOP Subsidiary Guarantors' properties are subject to mortgages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


