FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20100428083149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2010, Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. The press release refers to supplemental information regarding the Company, including its consolidated financial statements, that is available on the Company's website at .
www.ventasreit.com
Copies of the press release and supplemental information are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
The press release states that the Company's normalized funds from operations ("FFO") for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 were $105.2 million, or $0.67 per diluted common share, as compared to $95.7 million, or $0.67 per diluted common share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), for the first quarter of 2010 was $103.0 million, or $0.66 per diluted common share, as compared to $94.5 million, or $0.66 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2009. The Company's net income attributable to common stockholders for the first quarter of 2010 was $52.6 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $0.5 million), as compared to $74.2 million, or $0.52 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $29.2 million), for the comparable period in 2009.
The press release also states that the Company expects its normalized FFO for the year ending December 31, 2010 to be between $2.69 and $2.75 per diluted common share. The Company expects its net income attributable to common stockholders for 2010 to be between $1.38 and $1.47 per diluted common share.
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, merger integration, growth opportunities, dispositions, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
 
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and its ability to identify, underwrite, consummate, finance and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 and for the year ending December 31, 2010; (m) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred Healthcare, Inc., and the Company's earnings; (q) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) the ability and willingness of the lenders under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests made by the Company from time to time; (t) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (u) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that normalized Funds From Operations ("FFO") for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 increased 9.9 percent to $105.2 million, from $95.7 million for the comparable 2009 period. Normalized FFO per diluted common share was $0.67 for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Weighted average diluted shares outstanding in the first quarter of 2010 increased by 9.7 percent to 157.0 million, compared to 143.1 million in the comparable 2009 period.
CHICAGO, IL (April 28, 2010)
"Ventas experienced another quarter of strong and growing cash flows, along with continued improving fundamentals in our portfolio of diversified assets," Ventas Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Debra A. Cafaro said. "We intend to use our financial strength and resources to execute our growth and diversification strategy in 2010."
Normalized FFO for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 excludes the net expense (totaling $2.2 million, or $0.01 per diluted share) from merger-related expenses and deal costs, including fees and expenses incurred to obtain the Company's favorable $101.6 million jury verdict against HCP, Inc. ("HCP"), offset by net income tax benefit. Normalized FFO for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 excluded the net expense (totaling $1.2 million, or $0.01 per diluted share) from merger-related expenses and deal costs and loss on extinguishment of debt, offset by income tax benefit.
First quarter 2010 normalized FFO per diluted common share versus the comparable period in 2009 benefited from rental increases from the Company's triple-net lease portfolio; higher Net Operating Income after management fees ("NOI") at the Company's senior living and medical office building ("MOB") operating portfolios; and lower interest expense, offset by higher weighted average diluted shares outstanding.
FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), for the first quarter of 2010 increased 9.0 percent to $103.0 million, from $94.5 million in the prior year due to the factors stated above. First quarter 2010 and 2009 NAREIT FFO per diluted common share was $0.66.
 
Ventas Reports First Quarter Results April 28, 2010 Page 2
SUNRISE-MANAGED PORTFOLIO
Total Portfolio
The Company's operating portfolio contains 79 seniors housing communities in North America that are managed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (NYSE: SRZ) ("Sunrise"). Ventas owns 100 percent of 19 of these communities and has an ownership share of between 75 percent and 85 percent in the remaining 60 communities through joint ventures, in which Sunrise owns the noncontrolling interest.
NOI for these 79 communities was $33.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, compared to $30.5 million for the comparable 2009 period. This 10.9 percent improvement in NOI was due to a 4.8 percent increase in average daily rate, a 170 basis point improvement in margin and a ten basis point increase in occupancy. Favorable movements in the Canadian dollar exchange rate had a positive impact on NOI of $0.9 million for the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009.
"We are pleased with the NOI results from our 79 high-quality, mansion-style seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise," Ventas Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer Raymond J. Lewis said. "Our portfolio of well-located, need driven communities is well positioned to take advantage of an improving economy."
Same-Store Stabilized Community NOI, Average Daily Rate and Margin Increase Year Over Year and Sequentially
For the 78 Sunrise communities that were stabilized in the first quarter of 2010 and the fourth quarter of 2009, NOI was $33.1 million in the 2010 first quarter, compared to $32.7 million in the 2009 fourth quarter. This 1.2 percent increase in NOI was due to a 2.4 percent increase in average daily rate to $178 and a 50 basis point improvement in margin to 31.4 percent, offset by a 40 basis point decrease in occupancy to 88.4 percent.
For the 78 Sunrise communities that were stabilized in the first quarters of both 2010 and 2009, total community NOI increased 9.9 percent to $33.1 million in the first quarter of 2010, versus $30.1 million for the comparable 2009 period. This improvement in NOI was due to a 4.8 percent increase in average daily rate to $178 and a 160 basis point improvement in margin to 31.4 percent, offset by a 60 basis point decrease in occupancy to 88.4 percent.
GAAP NET INCOME
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 was $52.6 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $0.5 million, compared with net income attributable to common stockholders for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 of $74.2 million, or $0.52 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $29.2 million.
FIRST QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS AND OTHER RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Portfolio, Performance and Balance Sheet Highlights
Liquidity, Balance Sheet & Credit Ratings
 
Ventas Reports First Quarter Results April 28, 2010 Page 3
Investments and Dispositions
Portfolio
Additional Information
 
Ventas Reports First Quarter Results April 28, 2010 Page 4
VENTAS REAFFIRMS 2010 NORMALIZED FFO AND FAD GUIDANCE
Ventas reaffirmed that it expects its 2010 normalized FFO to range between $2.69 and $2.75 per diluted common share and normalized Funds Available for Distribution ("FAD") to be between $2.55 and $2.62 per diluted common share. The Company's normalized FFO and FAD guidance (and related GAAP earnings projections) for all periods is subject to certain assumptions and qualifications, which have been previously disclosed, and many of which are subject to change and outside the control of the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve these results. The Company may from time to time update its publicly announced guidance, but it is not obligated to do so.
FIRST QUARTER CONFERENCE CALL
Ventas will hold a conference call to discuss this earnings release today, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (9:00 a.m. Central Time). The dial-in number for the conference call is (857) 350-1676. The participant passcode is "Ventas." The conference call is being webcast live by Thomson Reuters and can be accessed at the Company's website at or . An online replay of the webcast will be available today, or by calling (617) 801-6888, passcode 16016281, at approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time and will be archived for one month.
www.ventasreit.com
www.earnings.com
Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. As of March 31, 2010, Ventas owned 505 seniors housing and healthcare properties located in 43 states and two Canadian provinces. Its diverse portfolio included 244 seniors housing communities, 187 skilled nursing facilities, 40 hospitals, and 34 medical office buildings and other properties. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at .
www.ventasreit.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, merger integration, growth opportunities, dispositions, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
 
Ventas Reports First Quarter Results April 28, 2010 Page 5
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 and for the year ending December 31, 2010; (m) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs, insurance costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred, and the Company's earnings; (q) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) the ability and willingness of the lenders under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests made by the Company from time to time; (t) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (u) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The consolidated financial statements can be found in the First Quarter 2010 Supplemental Data on the Company's website under the "For Investors" section or at .
www.ventasreit.com/investors/supplemental.asp
 
Ventas Reports First Quarter Results April 28, 2010 Page 6
NORMALIZED FFO AND FAD GUIDANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2010
The following table illustrates the Company's normalized FFO and FAD per diluted common share guidance for the year ending December 31, 2010:
 
Ventas Reports First Quarter Results April 28, 2010 Page 7
Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA
The following information considers the pro forma effect on net income, interest and depreciation of the Company's investments and other capital transactions that were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2010, as if the transactions had been consummated as of the beginning of the period. The following table illustrates net debt to pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (including of non-cash stock-based compensation), excluding merger-related expenses and deal costs and gains or losses on real estate disposals ("Adjusted EBITDA") (dollars in thousands):
 
Ventas Reports First Quarter Results April 28, 2010 Page 8

Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
 
Owned Portfolio  Overview by Type (Dollars in Millions):
1
Loan Portfolio  Overview by Investment (Dollars in Millions):
1
Owned Portfolio  Overview by State/Province:
1
 
Owned and Loan Portfolio  Property Type Concentration:
1
Owned and Loan Portfolio  Operator Concentration:
1
Owned Portfolio  State/Province Concentration:
1
 
 
Private Pay Owned Asset Composition Trend:
 
Triple-Net and Operating Portfolio Revenue Rollover Schedule Excluding Seniors Housing Housing Operating Communities:
1
 
Company Development Data:
 
Same-Store Triple-Net Portfolio Trend Data for Properties Owned for the Full 4th Quarters of 2009 & 2008:
1,2
Same-Store Triple-Net Portfolio Trend Data for Properties Owned for the Full 3rd and 4th Quarters of 2009:
1,2
 
Kindred Healthcare Same-Store TTM EBITDARM Coverage Ratios:
1
 
Triple-Net Leased Portfolio Trends:
 
Triple-Net Leased Portfolio Trends:
 
Triple-Net Leased Portfolio Trends:
 
Medical Office Portfolio Statistics:
1
 
Medical Office Stabilized Portfolio Trends:
 
Seniors Housing Operating Portfolio Statistics:
1
 
Seniors Housing Stabilized Operating Portfolio Trends:
 
Historical Normalized FFO/Share:
1
 
Capitalization:
 
Debt Maturity Schedule:
1
 
Debt Maturities and Scheduled Principal Amortization
1
Debt Composition
1
 
Debt Covenants:
 
Debt Covenants:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, the Company considers FFO and normalized FFO and FAD appropriate measures of performance of an equity REIT. The Company uses the NAREIT definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of property, plus real estate depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company defines normalized FFO as FFO excluding certain income and expense items as listed below. Normalized FAD represents normalized FFO excluding straight-line rental adjustments and routine capital expenditures.
FFO and normalized FFO and FAD presented herein are not necessarily comparable to FFO and normalized FFO and FAD presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. FFO and normalized FFO and FAD should not be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of the Company's financial performance or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of the Company's liquidity, nor are FFO and normalized FFO and FAD necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of the Company's needs. The Company believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of the consolidated historical operating results of the Company, FFO and normalized FFO and FAD should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented elsewhere herein.
The Company's normalized FFO excludes (a) gains and losses on the sales of assets, (b) merger-related costs and expenses and deal costs and expenses, including expenses relating to the Company's lawsuit against HCP, Inc., (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts or premiums incurred as a result of early debt retirement or payment of the Company's debt and (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits/expenses.
 
NORMALIZED FFO AND FAD GUIDANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2010
The following table illustrates the Company's normalized FFO and FAD per diluted common share guidance for the year ending December 31, 2010:
 
The following information considers the pro forma effect on net income, interest and depreciation of the Company's investments and other capital transactions that were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2010, as if the transactions had been consummated as of the beginning of the period. The following table illustrates net debt to pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (including of non-cash stock-based compensation), excluding merger-related expenses and deal costs and gains or losses on real estate disposals ("Adjusted EBITDA") (dollars in thousands):
The Company considers Adjusted EBITDA a profitability measure which indicates the Company's ability to service debt. The Company considers the net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio a useful measure to evaluate the Company's ability to pay its indebtedness. Adjusted EBITDA presented herein is not necessarily comparable to EBITDA presented by other companies due to the fact that not all companies use the same definition. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of the Company's financial performance or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of the Company's liquidity, nor is Adjusted EBITDA necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of the Company's needs. The Company believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of the consolidated historical operating results of the Company, Adjusted EBITDA should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented elsewhere herein.


