FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20101105083628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On November 5, 2010, Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
     The press release states that the Company's normalized funds from operations ("FFO") for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 were $115.4 million, or $0.73 per diluted common share, as compared to $103.4 million, or $0.66 per diluted common share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), for the third quarter of 2010 was $108.9 million, or $0.69 per diluted common share, as compared to $98.3 million, or $0.63 per diluted common share, for the third quarter of 2009. The Company's net income attributable to common stockholders for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 was $57.9 million, or $0.37 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $0.5 million), as compared to $49.8 million, or $0.32 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $0.6 million), for the comparable period in 2009.
     For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company's normalized FFO was $332.5 million, or $2.11 per diluted common share, as compared to $304.2 million, or $2.01 per diluted common share, for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, the Company's net income attributable to common stockholders was $168.6 million, or $1.07 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $7.1 million), versus $212.4 million, or $1.40 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $72.6 million), for the comparable period in 2009.
     The press release also states that the Company currently expects its normalized FFO for the year ending December 31, 2010 to be between $2.84 and $2.86 per diluted common share. The Company expects its net income attributable to common stockholders for 2010 to be between $1.43 and $1.55 per diluted common share.
     This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, merger integration, growth opportunities, dispositions, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
 
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and its ability to identify, underwrite, consummate, finance and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the ending December 31, 2010; (m) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred Healthcare, Inc., and the Company's earnings; (q) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) the ability and willingness of the lenders under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests made by the Company from time to time; (t) risks associated with the Company's recent acquisition of businesses owned and operated by Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. and its related entities,
 
including its ability to successfully design, develop and manage medical office buildings and to retain key personnel; (u) the ability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses the Company's medical office buildings are located and their affiliated health systems to remain competitive and financially viable and to attract physicians and physician groups; (v) the Company's ability to maintain or expand its relationships with its existing and future hospital and health system clients; (w) risks associated with the Company's investments in joint ventures, including its lack of sole decision-making authority and its reliance on its joint venture partners' financial condition; (x) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (y) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
     On November 2, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that Raymond J. Lewis was named President of the Company, effective immediately. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
     Mr. Lewis, 46, joined the Company as Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer in 2002 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in January 2006. Mr. Lewis replaces Debra A. Cafaro, who is continuing as the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
      
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that normalized Funds From Operations ("FFO") for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 increased 11.7 percent to $115.4 million, from $103.4 million for the comparable 2009 period. Normalized FFO per diluted common share was $0.73 for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, an increase of 10.6 percent from $0.66 for the comparable 2009 period. Weighted average diluted shares outstanding in the third quarter of 2010 rose by 0.9 percent to 157.9 million, compared to 156.5 million in the comparable 2009 period.
CHICAGO, IL (November 5, 2010)
"Our third quarter results were outstanding, demonstrating strong operating cash flow and FFO growth," Ventas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Debra A. Cafaro said. "And, with three significant transactions, we believe that Ventas is well positioned for another decade of excellence. Additionally, we continue to implement our strategy to build an enterprise that will deliver strong returns to stakeholders through a high-quality, diverse and productive portfolio of healthcare and seniors housing assets."
Normalized FFO for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 excludes the net expense (totaling $6.5 million, or $0.04 per diluted share) from merger-related expenses and deal costs and non-cash income tax expense. Normalized FFO for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 excluded the net expense (totaling $5.1 million, or $0.03 per diluted share) from merger-related expenses and deal costs, offset by income tax benefit.
Third quarter 2010 normalized FFO per diluted common share versus the comparable period in 2009 benefited from rental increases from the Company's triple-net lease portfolio, and higher Net Operating Income after management fees ("NOI") at the Company's senior living and medical office building ("MOB") operating portfolios, including a $2.0 million cash payment received from Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (NYSE: SRZ) ("Sunrise") for expense overages at the Company's Sunrise-managed portfolio and the acquisition of the Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. ("Lillibridge") portfolio on July 1, 2010.
FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), for the third quarter of 2010 increased 10.8 percent to $108.9 million, from $98.3 million in the prior year. Third quarter 2010 NAREIT FFO per diluted common share was $0.69, compared to $0.63 per diluted common share in the third quarter of 2009, a 9.5 percent increase.
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 2
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 was $57.9 million, or $0.37 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $0.5 million, compared with net income attributable to common stockholders for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 of $49.8 million, or $0.32 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $0.6 million.
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $168.6 million, or $1.07 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $7.1 million, compared with net income attributable to common stockholders for the nine months ended September 30, 2009 of $212.4 million, or $1.40 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $72.6 million.
Normalized FFO for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $332.5 million, or $2.11 per diluted common share, a 9.3 percent increase from $304.2 million, or $2.01 per diluted common share, for the comparable 2009 period. Normalized FFO for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 excludes the net expense (totaling $19.3 million, or $0.12 per diluted share) from merger-related expenses and deal costs, non-cash income tax expense and loss on extinguishment of debt.
SUNRISE-MANAGED PORTFOLIO
Total Sunrise-Managed Portfolio
The Company's senior living operating portfolio includes 79 seniors housing communities in North America that are managed by Sunrise. During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, Ventas owned 100 percent of 21 of these communities and was the managing member of, and had ownership interests of between 75 percent and 85 percent in, the remaining 58 communities through joint ventures, in which Sunrise owned the noncontrolling interests. On October 1, 2010, Ventas agreed to acquire Sunrise's real estate interests in the 58 communities, while Sunrise will continue to manage all 79 communities owned by Ventas.
NOI for these 79 communities was $39.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, compared to $33.4 million for the comparable 2009 period. This 16.9 percent improvement in NOI was due to a 2.9 percent increase in average daily rate, a 180 basis point increase in occupancy and a $2.0 million cash payment from Sunrise for expense overages.
"Our portfolio of high-quality, mansion-style seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise had a great quarter, ending with 90 percent occupancy in the 78 stable assets," Ventas President Raymond J. Lewis said. "We see strong operating trends in this portfolio. Coupled with an expected reduction in the 2010 management fee and the receipt of $5 million in cash payments from Sunrise, we now expect our NOI to exceed $150 million during 2010 for this productive portfolio of need-driven assisted living communities."
Same-Store Stabilized Sunrise-Managed Community Occupancy and NOI Increase Year-Over-Year and Sequentially
For the 78 Sunrise communities that were stabilized in the third and second quarters of 2010, NOI was $38.1 million in the third quarter, compared to $37.3 million in the second quarter. This 2.1 percent increase in NOI was due primarily to a 110 basis point increase in average occupancy to 89.5 percent, as well as one additional day in the third quarter.
For the 78 Sunrise communities that were stabilized in the third quarters of both 2010 and 2009, total community NOI increased 15.4 percent to $38.1 million in the third quarter of 2010, versus $33.0 million for the comparable 2009 period. This improvement in NOI was due to a 3.0 percent increase in average daily rate to $178, a 140 basis point increase in average occupancy to 89.5 percent and a $1.8 million payment from Sunrise for expense overages.
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 3
THIRD QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS AND OTHER RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Portfolio, Performance and Balance Sheet Highlights
Acquisitions and Dispositions
Liquidity and Balance Sheet
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 4
Portfolio
Additional Information
VENTAS INCREASES 2010 NORMALIZED FFO PER DILUTED COMMON SHARE GUIDANCE TO $2.84 TO $2.86
Ventas currently expects its 2010 normalized FFO per diluted common share to range between $2.84 and $2.86, improving its previously announced 2010 guidance of $2.75 to $2.80 per diluted common share.
The Company also increased its guidance for its 79 high-quality seniors housing assets managed by Sunrise to between $150 million and $154 million in NOI for the full year, as compared to its previously announced guidance range of $139 million to $145 million.
The Company's normalized FFO guidance (and related GAAP earnings projections) for all periods assumes that all of the Company's tenants and borrowers continue to meet all of their obligations to the Company. In addition, the Company's normalized FFO guidance excludes (a) gains and losses on the sales of assets, (b) merger-related costs and expenses, including amortization of intangibles and transition and integration expenses, and deal costs and expenses, including expenses relating to the Company's lawsuit against HCP, Inc. ("HCP"), (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts or premiums incurred as a result of early retirement or payment of the Company's debt, (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits or expenses, (e) net proceeds, if any, the Company may receive from its lawsuit against HCP related to the acquisition of Sunrise Senior Living REIT, (f) the impact of future unannounced acquisitions or divestitures (including pursuant to tenant options to purchase) and capital transactions, and (g) the reversal or incurrence of contingent liabilities. The Company's normalized FFO and Sunrise NOI guidance for 2010 also assume that the acquisition of Sunrise's noncontrolling interests in 58 assets and the modification of the Company's management agreements with Sunrise closes as anticipated.
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 5
The Company's guidance is based on a number of other assumptions, which are subject to change and many of which are outside the control of the Company. If actual results vary from these assumptions, the Company's expectations may change. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve these results.
A reconciliation of the Company's guidance to the Company's projected GAAP earnings is attached to this press release. The Company may from time to time update its publicly announced guidance, but it is not obligated to do so.
THIRD QUARTER CONFERENCE CALL
Ventas will hold a conference call to discuss this earnings release today, at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time (10:00 a.m. Central Time). The dial-in number for the conference call is (617) 597-5360. The participant passcode is "Ventas." The conference call is being webcast live by Thomson Reuters and can be accessed at the Company's website at or . A replay of the webcast will be available today online, or by calling (617) 801-6888, passcode 81474130, beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time and will be archived for 30 days.
www.ventasreit.com
www.earnings.com
Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. Its diverse portfolio of nearly 600 assets in 44 states (including the District of Columbia) and two Canadian provinces consists of seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, medical office buildings and other properties. Through its Lillibridge subsidiary, Ventas provides management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States. More information about Ventas and Lillibridge can be found at and .
www.ventasreit.com
www.lillibridge.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, merger integration, growth opportunities, dispositions, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 6
December 31, 2010; (m) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs, insurance costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred, and the Company's earnings; (q) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) the ability and willingness of the lenders under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests made by the Company from time to time; (t) risks associated with the Company's recent acquisition of businesses owned and operated by Lillibridge, including its ability to successfully design, develop and manage MOBs and to retain key personnel; (u) the ability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses the Company's MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems to remain competitive and financially viable and to attract physicians and physician groups; (v) the Company's ability to maintain or expand its relationships with its existing and future hospital and health system clients; (w) risks associated with the Company's investments in joint ventures, including its lack of sole decision-making authority and its reliance on its joint venture partners' financial condition; (x) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (y) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 7
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 8
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 9
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 10
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 11
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 12
 
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, the Company considers FFO and normalized FFO appropriate measures of operating performance of an equity REIT. Further, the Company believes that normalized FFO provides useful information because it allows investors, analysts and Company management to compare the Company's operating performance to the operating performance of other real estate companies and between periods on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated items. The Company uses the NAREIT definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of property, plus real estate depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 13
ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company defines normalized FFO as FFO excluding the following income and expense items (which may be recurring in nature): (a) gains and losses on the sales of assets, (b) merger-related costs and expenses, including amortization of intangibles and transition and integration expenses, and deal costs and expenses, including expenses relating to the Company's lawsuit against HCP, (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts or premiums incurred as a result of early debt retirement or payment of the Company's debt, and (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits or expenses.
FFO and normalized FFO presented herein are not necessarily comparable to FFO and normalized FFO presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. FFO and normalized FFO should not be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of the Company's financial performance or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of the Company's liquidity, nor are FFO and normalized FFO necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of the Company's needs. The Company believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of the consolidated historical operating results of the Company, FFO and normalized FFO should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented elsewhere herein.
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 14
NORMALIZED FFO GUIDANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2010
The following table illustrates the Company's normalized FFO per diluted common share guidance for the year ending December 31, 2010:
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 15
Net Debt to Adjusted Pro Forma EBITDA
The following information considers the pro forma effect on net income, interest and depreciation of the Company's investments and other capital transactions that were completed during the three months ended September 30, 2010, as if the transactions had been consummated as of the beginning of the period. The following table illustrates net debt to pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (including of non-cash stock-based compensation), excluding merger-related expenses and deal costs and gains or losses on real estate disposals ("Adjusted Pro Forma EBITDA") (dollars in thousands):
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 16
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 17
 
Ventas Reports Third Quarter Results November 5, 2010 Page 18
The Company considers NOI an important supplemental measure to net income because it allows investors, analysts and Company management to measure unlevered property-level operating results and to compare the Company's operating results to the operating results of other real estate companies and between periods on a consistent basis. The Company defines NOI as total revenues, less interest and other income, property-level operating expenses and MOB services costs (including amounts in discontinued operations).

Exhibit 99.2
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas") said today that Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer Raymond J. Lewis, 46, has been promoted to President of the Company, effective immediately. Lewis, who joined Ventas in 2002, will be responsible for investments and asset management, reporting to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Debra A. Cafaro.
CHICAGO, IL (November 2, 2010)
"Ray has been an integral part of our success and a valued partner since he joined Ventas eight years ago. This promotion is well deserved and will allow Ray to manage all investments and asset management of our large, diversified and growing portfolio of productive healthcare and seniors housing assets. I know he will bring his leadership skills, customer orientation and commitment to Ventas and its stakeholders to his new position," Cafaro said.
Ventas also announced today the recent hiring of John D. Cobb as Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, reporting to Lewis, effective November 15, 2010. Cobb, 39, had been President and Chief Executive Officer of Senior Lifestyle Corporation since 2008. Before that, he spent ten years with GE Healthcare Financial Services, with increasing levels of responsibility, rising to Senior Managing Director. He holds a B.A. in finance from Lehigh University and serves or has served on the Boards of the National Investment Center and the American Seniors Housing Association.
"With John's deep relationships in the healthcare real estate and seniors housing industry, excellent reputation as a result-driven executive, and proven track record of growing a business, he will be an important addition to the Ventas team," Lewis said.
Also reporting to Lewis are Vincent M. Cozzi, Senior Vice President, Medical Office Properties, and Timothy A. Doman, Senior Vice President, Asset Management. "With three strong leaders reporting to Ray, Ventas will be well positioned to execute its strategic growth plans, manage its relationships with the Company's tenant operators, and effectively supervise its expansive asset base. The depth, cohesiveness and consistency of our senior managers are sources of great strength for the Company," Cafaro added.
 
Ventas Promotes Lewis to President November 2, 2010 Page 2
Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. Its diverse portfolio of nearly 600 assets in 44 states (including the District of Columbia) and two Canadian provinces consists of seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, medical office buildings and other properties. Through its Lillibridge subsidiary, Ventas provides management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States. More information about Ventas and Lillibridge can be found at and .
www.ventasreit.com
www.lillibridge.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, merger integration, growth opportunities, dispositions, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2010; (m) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs, insurance costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred Healthcare, Inc., and the Company's earnings; (q) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) the ability and willingness of the lenders under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests made by the Company from time to time; (t) risks associated with the Company's recent acquisition of businesses
 
Ventas Promotes Lewis to President November 2, 2010 Page 3
owned and operated by Lillibridge, including its ability to successfully design, develop and manage MOBs and to retain key personnel; (u) the ability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses the Company's MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems to remain competitive and financially viable and to attract physicians and physician groups; (v) the Company's ability to maintain or expand its relationships with its existing and future hospital and health system clients; (w) risks associated with the Company's investments in joint ventures, including its lack of sole decision-making authority and its reliance on its joint venture partners' financial condition;(x) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (y) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.


