FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20100609165858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Effective June 7, 2010, Glenn J. Rufrano, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cushman & Wakefield, Inc., was appointed to the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company").
Under the terms of the Ventas, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan for Directors, on his initial appointment to the Board, Mr. Rufrano received a grant of 2,763 shares of restricted stock, which shares vest one-half on the first anniversary of the date of grant and one-half on the second anniversary of the date of grant, and options to purchase 2,849 shares of common stock having an exercise price of $45.26, which options vest one-half on the date of grant and one-half on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on June 7, 2010 announcing this appointment to its Board of Directors is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
VENTAS, INC.
Date: June 9, 2010
By: T. Richard Riney Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
s/ T. Richard Riney                
/
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that Cushman & Wakefield President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn J. Rufrano has been appointed to its Board of Directors, effectively immediately.
CHICAGO, IL (June 7, 2010)
"With an extensive and successful career spanning 30 years, Glenn Rufrano is the consummate real estate executive, whose knowledge, integrity and insight will add to Ventas's strong Board," Ventas Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Debra A. Cafaro said. "Our experienced and thoughtful independent Board has played a crucial role in achieving excellence and delivering outstanding performance to our stakeholders. We welcome Glenn to the Ventas Board and look forward to working with him."
Rufrano, 60, assumed his position at Cushman & Wakefield, the world's largest privately held commercial property and real estate services company with 231 offices located around the globe, in March of this year. For two years prior to that, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Centro Properties Group, an Australian-based shopping center company, which he helped to rescue by leading a successful consensual multi-party restructuring. Rufrano previously served as the Chief Executive Officer of New Plan Excel Realty Trust from 2000 until it was acquired by Centro in 2007, and, from 1983 through 2000, he was a co-founder of The O'Connor Group, which invests in international real estate.
Rufrano graduated from Rutgers University and holds a master's degree in real estate from Florida International University. He currently serves on the Board of New York University's Real Estate Institute and was previously a director at General Growth Properties Inc. and at Trizec Properties, Inc., both publicly held REITs, and Crimi Mae Inc., a mortgage REIT.
Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. Its diverse portfolio of properties located in 43 states and two Canadian provinces includes seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, medical office buildings and other properties. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at .
www.ventasreit.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business
 
Ventas Appoints Rufrano to Board June 7, 2010 Page 2
strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, merger integration, growth opportunities, dispositions, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 and for the year ending December 31, 2010; (m) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs, insurance costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred, and the Company's earnings; (q) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) the ability and willingness of the lenders under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests made by the Company from time to time; (t) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (u) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.


