FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20100503112632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") is re-issuing in an updated format its historical financial statements to satisfy Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") requirements as they relate to Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification guidance pertaining to the accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets ("ASC 360").
In compliance with ASC 360, the Company has reported revenues and expenses from properties held for sale during the first three months of 2010 as components of discontinued operations for each period presented (including the comparable period of the prior year) in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, filed with the SEC on April 30, 2010. Under SEC rules, the same reclassification as discontinued operations is required for previously issued annual financial statements for each of the three years presented in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the date of sale. This reclassification has no effect on the Company's reported net income attributable to common stockholders or funds from operations.
This Current Report on Form 8-K updates Items 6, 7 and 8 of, and Exhibit 12 to, the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the "2009 Form 10-K"), to reflect those properties held for sale during the first three months of 2010 as discontinued operations for all periods presented. All other items of the 2009 Form 10-K remain unchanged. The Company has not made any attempt to update the matters in the 2009 Form 10-K, except to the extent expressly provided above.
 
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
Not applicable.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
Not applicable.
(c) Shell Company Transactions.
Not applicable.
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 12.1
STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-61552) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. Common Stock Purchase Plan for Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-97251) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-107951) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan for Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-118944) pertaining to the Ventas Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan and Ventas Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-126639) pertaining to the Ventas Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-136175) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan and Ventas, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan for Directors; the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-155770) pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan; the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-158424) pertaining to preferred stock, depository shares, common stock, warrants and debt securities of Ventas, Inc.; and the Registration Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-165737) pertaining to the common stock of Ventas, Inc., of our report dated February 19, 2010 (except for Notes 5, 13, 18 and 19, as to which the date is April 30, 2010) with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Ventas, Inc. and our report dated February 19, 2010 with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Ventas, Inc. included in this Current Report (Form 8-K).
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
30 April 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
You should read the following selected financial data in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as acquisitions, divestitures, changes in accounting policies and other items impact the comparability of the financial data.
 
 
 
The following discussion and analysis provides information which management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, "we," "us" or "our"). You should read this discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Management's Discussion and Analysis will help you understand:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate and Operating Environment
We are a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2009, this portfolio consisted of 505 assets: 244 seniors housing communities, 187 skilled nursing facilities, 40 hospitals and 34 medical office buildings ("MOBs") and other properties in 43 states and two Canadian provinces. With the exception of our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Sunrise") pursuant to long-term management agreements and the majority of our MOBs, we lease our properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. We also had real estate loan investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare companies or properties as of December 31, 2009.
Our primary business consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those properties to third parties or operating those properties through independent third-party managers. We operate through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations.
As of December 31, 2009, we had a 100% ownership interest in 439 of our properties. We had 75% to 85% interests in 60 seniors housing communities owned in joint ventures with Sunrise, and we had controlling interests in six MOBs owned through joint ventures with partners who provide management and leasing services for the properties.
Our business strategy is comprised of three principal objectives: (1) portfolio diversification; (2) stable earnings and growth; and (3) maintaining a strong balance sheet and liquidity.
Access to external capital is an important component of the success of our strategy as it impacts our ability to repay existing indebtedness as it matures and to make future investments. Our cost of and ability to access capital depend on various factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our securities, perception of our potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our common stock. Generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration of most of our investments with long-term fixed rate financing. At December 31, 2009, only 8.3% of our consolidated debt was variable rate debt.
As of December 31, 2009, our senior unsecured debt securities were rated BBB- (stable) by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P"), BBB (stable) by Fitch Ratings and Ba1 (stable) by Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"). On February 4, 2010, Moody's upgraded the rating on our unsecured debt securities to Baa3 (stable), giving us a third investment grade rating. To the extent it is reasonable to do so, and we believe it to be in the best interests of our stakeholders, we intend to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt securities and to manage various capital ratios and amounts within appropriate parameters.
2009 Highlights and Other Recent Developments
Liquidity and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investments
 
 
 
Dispositions
 
 
Other
 
 
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
On July 1, 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") launched the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"), which changes U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") from a standards-based model to a topical-based model. The topics are organized by ASC number and are updated with an Accounting Standards Update. The ASC is the single source of nongovernmental authoritative GAAP for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009.
Our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared in accordance with GAAP set forth in the ASC, as published by the FASB. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We base these estimates on our experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, if our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been different, it is possible that different accounting treatment would have been applied, resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we re-evaluate our estimates and assumptions, and in the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, we make adjustments in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe that the critical accounting policies described below, among others, affect our more significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements. For more information regarding our critical accounting policies, see "Note 2Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Principles of Consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and the joint venture entities over which we exercise control. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation, and net earnings are reduced by the portion of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. We apply FASB guidance for arrangements with variable interest entities ("VIEs"), which requires the identification of entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights and the determination of which a business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE.
We must make judgments regarding our level of influence or control of an entity and whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a VIE. In making those judgments, we consider various factors, including the form of our ownership interest, our representation on the entity's governing body, the size and seniority of our investment, various cash flow scenarios related to the VIE, our ability to participate in policy making decisions and the rights of the other investors to participate in the decision making process and to replace us as manager and/or liquidate the venture, if applicable. Our ability to correctly assess our influence or control over an entity and determine the primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In the future, our assumptions may change, which could result in the identification of a different primary beneficiary.
Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles
Investments in real estate assets are recorded at cost. We account for acquisitions using the purchase method and allocate the cost of the properties acquired among tangible and recognized intangible assets and liabilities based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Recognized intangibles include the value of acquired lease contracts, management agreements and related customer relationships.
Our method for allocating the purchase price paid to acquire investments in real estate requires us to make subjective assessments for determining fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired or assumed. This includes determining the value of the buildings and improvements, land and improvements, ground leases, tenant improvements, in-place tenant leases, above and/or below market leases, other intangibles embedded in contracts and any debt assumed. Each of these estimates requires significant judgment, and some of the estimates involve complex calculations. These allocation assessments have a direct impact on our results of operations, as amounts allocated to some assets and liabilities have different depreciation or amortization lives. Additionally, the amortization of value assigned to above and/or below market leases is recorded as a component of revenue, as compared to the amortization of in-place leases and other intangibles, which is included in depreciation and amortization in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
We estimate the fair value of buildings on an as-if-vacant basis and depreciate the building value over the estimated remaining life of the building. We determine the allocated value of other fixed assets based upon the replacement cost and depreciate such value over their estimated remaining useful lives. We determine the value of land either based on real estate tax assessed values in relation to the total value of the asset or on internal analyses of recently acquired and existing comparable properties within our portfolio. The fair value of in-place leases, if any, reflects (i) the estimated value of any above and/or below market leases, determined by discounting the difference between the estimated current market rent and the in-place rentals, the resulting intangible asset or liability of which is amortized to revenue over the remaining life of the associated lease plus any fixed rate renewal periods, if applicable, (ii) the estimated value of the cost to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances, tenant improvements and leasing commissions, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease, and (iii) an estimated value of the absorption period to reflect the value of the rents and recovery costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the acquired space was vacant, which is also amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease. We estimate the value of tenant or other customer relationships acquired by considering the nature and extent of existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality, expectations of lease renewals with the tenant, and the potential for significant, additional future leasing arrangements with the tenant and amortize that value over the expected term of the associated arrangements or leases, which includes the remaining lives of the related leases and any expected renewal periods. We calculate the fair value of long-term debt by discounting the remaining contractual cash flows on each instrument at the current market rate for those borrowings, which is approximated based on the rate we estimate we would incur to replace each instrument on the date of acquisition. Any fair value adjustments related to long-term debt are recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instrument.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment indicators. If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying operations, and we adjust the net book value of leased properties and other long-lived assets to fair value if the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows including sales proceeds is less than book value. An impairment loss is recognized at the time we make any such determination. Future events could occur that would cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.
Business Combinations
For our acquisitions, we measure the assets acquired, liabilities assumed (including contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair values on the acquisition date. Our acquisition-related transaction costs are included in merger-related expenses and deal costs on our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2009. Prior to January 1, 2009, these costs were capitalized as part of the asset value at the time of the acquisition, as required by FASB guidance at that time.
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are stated at the unpaid principal balance net of any deferred origination fees, purchase discounts or premiums and/or valuation allowances. Net deferred origination fees, which are comprised of loan fees collected from the borrower net of certain direct costs, and purchase discounts or premiums are amortized to income over the contractual life of the loan using the effective interest method. We evaluate the collectibility of loans and other amounts receivable from third parties based on a number of factors, including (i) corporate and facility-level financial and operational reports, (ii) compliance with the financial covenants set forth in the applicable loan or lease agreement, (iii) the financial stability of the borrower or tenant and any guarantor, (iv) the payment history of the borrower or tenant, and (v) current economic conditions. Our level of reserves, if any, for loans and other amounts receivable from third parties fluctuates depending upon all of these factors.
Fair Value
We follow FASB guidance that defines fair value and provides direction for measuring fair value and providing the necessary disclosures. The guidance emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement and should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the guidance establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within levels one and two of the hierarchy) and the reporting entity's own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within level three of the hierarchy).
Level one inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access. Level two inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in level one that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level two inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, other than quoted prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level three inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which are typically based on the reporting entity's own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Additionally, if an entity determines there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability in relation to the normal market activity for such asset or liability (or similar assets or liabilities), then transactions or quoted prices may not accurately reflect fair value. In addition, if there is evidence that the transaction for the asset or liability is not orderly, the entity shall place little, if any, weight on that transaction price as an indicator of fair value. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.
We record marketable debt and equity securities as available-for-sale and classify them as a component of other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These securities are recorded at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest income, including discount or premium amortization, on marketable debt securities and gains or losses on securities sold, which are based on the specific identification method, are reported in income from loans and investments on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
We determined the valuation of our current investments in marketable securities using level one inputs. Additionally, we determined the valuation allowance for loan losses based on level three inputs. See "Note 6Loans Receivable" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We also follow FASB guidance relating to the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments, which requires entities to separate an other-than-temporary impairment of a fixed maturity security into two components when (i) there are credit losses associated with the security that management asserts that it does not have an intent to sell and (ii) it is more likely than not that the entity will not be required to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis. The amount of the other-than-temporary impairment related to a credit loss is recognized in earnings, and the amount of the other-than-temporary impairment related to other factors is recorded in other comprehensive loss. We have not recognized any other-than-temporary impairment.
Revenue Recognition
Certain of our leases, including the majority of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent. Base rental revenues under these leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. Income on our straight-line revenue is recognized when collectibility is reasonably assured, and in the event we determine that collectibility of straight-line revenue is not reasonably assured, we establish an allowance for estimated losses. Recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis results in recognized revenue exceeding cash amounts contractually due from our tenants during the first half of the term for leases that have straight-line treatment.
Our master lease agreements with Kindred (the "Kindred Master Leases") and certain of our other leases provide for an annual increase in rental payments only if certain revenue parameters or other substantive contingencies are met. We recognize the increased rental revenue under these leases only if the revenue parameters or other substantive contingencies are met, rather than on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. We recognize income from rent, lease termination fees and all other income once all of the following criteria are met in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") Staff Accounting Bulletin 104: (i) the agreement has been fully executed and delivered; (ii) services have been rendered; (iii) the amount is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.
We recognize resident fees and services, other than move in fees, monthly as services are provided. Move in fees, which are a component of resident fees and services, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease agreement. Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days' notice.
Federal Income Tax
Since we have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), prior to our acquisition of the assets of Sunrise REIT in April 2007 we made no provision for federal income tax purposes. As a result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, however, we now record income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our entities which are taxed as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT provisions.
We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. An increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
On January 1, 2010, we adopted FASB guidance related to variable interest accounting. The guidance requires an enterprise to analyze whether its variable interest gives it a controlling financial interest in a VIE. This analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise that has both of the following characteristics: (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the entity. The guidance requires an enterprise to perform this analysis on an ongoing basis and requires additional disclosures about an enterprise's involvement in VIEs. We do not believe the adoption of this guidance will impact our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Results of Operations
The tables below show our results of operations for each year and the absolute dollar and percentage changes in those results from year to year.
Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008
 
 
nm - not meaningful
Revenues
The increase in our 2009 rental income can be attributed primarily to $6.4 million of additional rent resulting from the annual escalators in the rent paid under the Kindred Master Leases effective May 1, 2008 and 2009, $8.6 million in additional rent relating to triple-net leased properties and MOBs acquired during 2008 and 2009, a rent reset increase of $1.8 million on four seniors housing communities and three skilled nursing facilities and various other escalations in the rent paid on our other existing properties. See "Note 4Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Rental income included in discontinued operations was $5.5 million and $22.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Revenues related to our triple-net leased properties segment consist of fixed rental amounts (subject to annual escalations) received directly from our tenants based on the terms of the applicable leases and generally do not depend on the operating performance of our properties. Therefore, while occupancy information is relevant to the operations of our tenants, our revenues and financial results are not directly impacted by the overall occupancy levels or profits at the triple-net leased properties.
Resident fees and services consist of all amounts earned from residents at our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise, including rental fees related to resident leases, extended health care fees and other ancillary service income. The decrease in resident fees and services during 2009 is attributed primarily to an increase in the average Canadian dollar exchange rate, which had an unfavorable impact of $5.0 million in 2009, and lower average occupancy in our communities. Average occupancy rates related to these properties in 2009 and 2008 were as follows:
 
Income from loans and investments increased during 2009 primarily due to interest earned on the investments we made during 2008 and 2009. See "Note 6Loans Receivable" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The decrease in our interest and other income during 2009 is primarily attributable to the resolution in 2008 of a legal dispute and higher interest rates earned on cash balances in 2008.
Expenses
Interest expense included in discontinued operations was $1.9 million and $9.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Total interest expense, including interest allocated to discontinued operations, decreased $33.4 million in 2009 over 2008, primarily due to a $8.6 million reduction in interest from lower effective interest rates and a $25.6 million reduction in interest from lower loan balances. Interest expense includes $7.4 million and $6.4 million of amortized deferred financing fees for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our effective interest rate decreased to 6.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009, from 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2008. An increase in the average Canadian dollar exchange rate had a favorable impact on interest expense of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to the same period in 2008.
Approximately $28.9 million of the decrease in 2009 depreciation and amortization expense is due to in-place lease intangibles related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition, which were fully amortized during the second quarter of 2008. See "Note 4Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Property-level operating expenses include expenses incurred for the operations of our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise, such as labor, food, utilities, marketing, management and other property operating costs, operating expenses of our MOBs and loan receivable valuation allowances. Property-level operating expenses decreased in 2009 primarily due to a $6.0 million loan receivable valuation allowance recorded in 2008, not related to our MOBs or Sunrise-managed communities, and an increase in the average Canadian dollar exchange rate, which had a favorable impact of $3.6 million in 2009. The decrease was partially offset by approximately $4 million of property-level expense credits and reconciliations related to our Sunrise-managed communities in 2008 that did not recur in 2009 and MOB growth in 2009.
The decrease in general, administrative and professional fees during 2009 is a result of lower professional fees and dead deal costs recorded in 2008, partially offset by an increase in non-cash stock-based compensation.
The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2009 primarily relates to the purchase, in open market transactions and/or through cash tender offers, of $361.6 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding senior notes. The gain on extinguishment of debt in 2008 primarily represents the purchase of $176.4 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding senior notes in open market transactions for a discount.
Merger-related expenses and deal costs primarily consisted of expenses relating to our litigation with HCP arising out of the Sunrise REIT acquisition and, during 2009, deal costs now required by GAAP to be expensed rather than capitalized into the asset value.
Other
We had a $23.3 million deferred tax liability for any built-in gains tax related to the disposition of certain assets owned or deemed to be owned by us prior to our REIT election in 1999. The ten-year period in which these assets were subject to built-in gains tax ended on December 31, 2008. Because we had no pending or planned dispositions of these assets through December 31, 2008 and did not expect to pay any amounts related to this contingent liability, the $23.3 million deferred tax liability was reversed into income during 2008.
Income tax benefit represents a deferred benefit which is due solely to our taxable REIT subsidiaries as a direct result of the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 11Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Discontinued operations for 2009 include a $67.3 million net gain on the sale of fourteen assets sold during 2009. Discontinued operations for 2008 include a $39.0 million gain on the sale of twelve assets sold during 2008. See "Note 5Dispositions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of tax primarily represents Sunrise's share of net income from its ownership percentage in 60 and 61 of our seniors housing communities during 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007
 
 
nm - not meaningful
Revenues
The increase in our 2008 rental income can be attributed primarily to $6.7 million of additional rent resulting from the annual escalators in the rent paid under the Kindred Master Leases effective May 1, 2007 and 2008 and $15.0 million in additional rent relating to triple-net leased properties and MOBs acquired during 2007 and 2008. See "Note 4Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Rental income included in discontinued operations was $22.0 million and $32.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The increase in resident fees and services during 2008 is attributed to the fact that we did not acquire the Sunrise REIT properties until late April 2007 and, therefore, our results for 2007 reflect only eight months of Sunrise-related revenues. See "Note 4Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Average occupancy rates related to our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise in 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
 
Income from loans and investments increased during 2008 primarily due to interest earned on a $50.0 million marketable debt security we purchased in early April 2008 and a first mortgage debt investment of $98.8 million we made in late 2008, partially offset by a gain on the sale of marketable equity securities of $0.9 million recognized in the second quarter of 2007.
The increase in our interest and other income during 2008 is primarily attributable to the resolution in 2008 of a legal dispute.
Expenses
Interest expense included in discontinued operations was $9.5 million and $13.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Total interest expense, including interest allocated to discontinued operations, increased $3.4 million in 2008 over 2007, primarily due to $14.3 million of additional interest from higher loan balances as a result of our 2008 acquisition and loan activity, partially offset by a $11.8 million reduction in interest from lower effective interest rates and a $2.6 million loss due to early repayment of bridge financing in 2007 related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. Interest expense includes $6.4 million and $4.8 million of amortized deferred financing fees for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our effective interest rate decreased to 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2008, from 6.9% for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily as result of the properties acquired during 2008 and 2007, partially offset by a $26.9 million decrease in amortization expense due to in-place lease intangibles primarily related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition. These in-place lease intangibles were fully amortized during the second quarter of 2008. See "Note 4Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Property-level operating expenses increased primarily due to the Sunrise REIT acquisition, the $6.0 million loan receivable valuation allowance recorded in the third quarter of 2008, and a $4.0 million increase related to the growth of our MOB business. Our results for 2007 reflect only eight months of expenses related to our Sunrise-managed communities due to the late April 2007 acquisition of the Sunrise REIT properties.
The increase in general, administrative and professional fees in 2008 is a result of our enterprise growth, an increase in non-cash stock-based compensation and dead deal costs.
The foreign currency gain in 2007 primarily relates to the Canadian call option contracts we entered into in conjunction with the Sunrise REIT acquisition. See "Note 2Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. No similar contracts were in place during 2008.
The gain on extinguishment of debt in 2008 primarily represents the purchase of $176.4 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes in open market transactions for a discount. The gain on extinguishment of debt in 2007 represents the purchase of $5.0 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes in an open market transaction for a discount.
Merger-related expenses and deal costs primarily consisted of expenses relating to our litigation with HCP arising out of the Sunrise REIT acquisition and, for 2007, also include incremental costs directly related to the Sunrise REIT acquisition.
Other
We had a $23.3 million deferred tax liability to be utilized for any built-in gains tax related to the disposition of certain assets owned or deemed to be owned by us prior to our REIT election in 1999. The ten-year period in which these assets were subject to built-in gains tax ended on December 31, 2008. Because we had no pending or planned dispositions of these assets through December 31, 2008 and did not expect to pay any amounts related to this contingent liability, the $23.3 million deferred tax liability was reversed into income during 2008.
The decrease in discontinued operations is primarily the result of a $129.5 million gain recognized in 2007 from the sale of 22 assets, compared to a $39.0 million gain recognized in 2008 from the sale of twelve assets. See "Note 5Dispositions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Preferred stock dividends and issuance costs in 2007 relate to the issuance and sale of 700,000 shares of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock to fund a portion of the Sunrise REIT acquisition, all of which we redeemed in May 2007 using the proceeds from the sale of our common stock. See "Note 4Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Funds From Operations
Our Funds From Operations ("FFO") for the five years ended December 31, 2009 are summarized in the following table:
 
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values, instead, have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, we consider FFO and normalized FFO and Funds Available for Distribution ("FAD") appropriate measures of performance of an equity REIT, and we use the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate property, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We define normalized FFO as FFO excluding (a) gains and losses on the sales of assets, including marketable securities, (b) merger-related costs and expenses and deal costs and expenses, including expenses relating to our lawsuit against HCP and the issuance of preferred stock or bridge loan fees, (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts or premiums incurred as a result of early debt retirement or payment of our debt, including hedging transactions, (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits, (e) the reversal of contingent liabilities, (f) gains and losses for foreign currency hedge agreements, (g) one-time expenses in connection with the Kindred rent reset process, (h) net proceeds received by us in relation to litigation, and (i) contributions made to the Ventas Charitable Foundation. Normalized FAD represents normalized FFO excluding straight-line rental adjustments and routine capital expenditures.
FFO and normalized FFO and FAD presented herein are not necessarily comparable to FFO and normalized FFO and FAD presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. FFO and normalized FFO and FAD should not be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of our financial performance or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of our liquidity, nor are FFO and normalized FFO and FAD necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of our needs. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our consolidated historical operating results, FFO and normalized FFO and FAD should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and data included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Asset/Liability Management
Asset/liability management is a key element of our overall risk management program. The objective of asset/liability management is to support the achievement of our business strategies while maintaining appropriate risk levels. The asset/liability management process focuses on a variety of risks, including market risk (primarily interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk) and credit risk. Effective management of these risks is an important determinant of the absolute levels and variability of our FFO and net worth. The following discussion addresses our integrated management of assets and liabilities, including the use of derivative financial instruments. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Market Risk
We are exposed to market risk for changes in interest rates on borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities, certain of our mortgage loans that are floating rate obligations and mortgage loans receivable. These market risks result primarily from changes in U.S. or Canadian LIBOR rates, the Canadian Bankers' Acceptance rate or the U.S. or Canadian Prime rates. We continuously monitor our level of floating rate debt with respect to total debt and other factors, including our assessment of the current and future economic environment.
Interest rate fluctuations generally do not affect our fixed rate debt obligations until such instruments mature. However, changes in interest rates will affect the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. If interest rates have risen at the time our fixed rate debt matures or at the time we refinance such debt, our future earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected by the additional cost of borrowings. Conversely, lower interest rates at the time our debt matures or at the time of refinancing may lower our overall borrowing costs.
To highlight the sensitivity of our fixed rate debt to changes in interest rates, the following summary shows the effects of a hypothetical instantaneous change of 100 basis points (BPS) in interest rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
The table below sets forth certain information with respect to our debt, excluding premiums and discounts:
 
The decrease in our outstanding variable rate debt from December 31, 2008 is primarily attributable to payments on our unsecured revolving credit facilities and certain repayments on our variable rate mortgage debt. Pursuant to the terms of certain leases with one of our tenants, if interest rates increase on certain debt that we have totaling $80.0 million as of December 31, 2009, our tenant is required to pay us additional rent (on a dollar-for-dollar basis) in an amount equal to the increase in interest expense resulting from the increased interest rates. Therefore, the increase in interest expense related to this debt is equally offset by an increase in additional rent due to us from the tenant. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the interest rate related to the variable rate debt, and assuming no change in the outstanding balance as of December 31, 2009, interest expense for 2010 would increase and our net income would decrease by approximately $1.7 million, or $0.01 per common share on a diluted basis. The fair value of our fixed and variable rate debt is based on current interest rates at which we could obtain similar borrowings.
We have investments in marketable debt securities on which we earn interest on a fixed or floating rate basis. We record these investments as available-for-sale at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as a component of stockholders' equity. Interest rate fluctuations and market conditions will cause the fair market value of these investments to change. As of December 31, 2009, the fair market value of our marketable debt securities, which had an original cost of $58.7 million, was $65.0 million.
As of December 31, 2009, the fair value of our loans receivable was $129.5 million and was based on our estimates of currently prevailing rates for comparable loans. See "Note 6Loans Receivable" and "Note 9Fair Value of Financial Instruments" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We are also subject to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian exchange rates which may, from time to time, have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian dollar will impact the amount of net income we earn from our Canadian operations. Based on 2009 results, if the Canadian dollar exchange rate were to increase or decrease by $0.10, our net income would decrease or increase, as applicable, by approximately $0.4 million per year. If we increase our international presence through investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and/or healthcare assets outside the United States, we may also decide to transact additional business in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars. Although we may decide to pursue hedging alternatives (including additional borrowings in local currencies) to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that any such fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, on our ability to service our indebtedness and on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a "Material Adverse Effect").
Credit Risk
We derive a significant portion of our revenue by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual escalators, subject to certain limitations. Some of our triple-net lease escalators are tied to the Consumer Price Index, with caps, floors or collars. We also earn revenue from residents at our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise and tenants in our MOBs. For the year ended December 31, 2009, 21.6% of our EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) was derived from our senior living operations and MOBs, where rental rates may fluctuate upon lease rollovers and renewals due to economic or market conditions.
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, Kindred accounted for $246.9 million, or 26.2%, of our total revenues and 38.5% of our total NOI (net operating income) (including amounts in discontinued operations), and $241.2 million, or 25.5%, of our total revenues and 38.0% of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations), respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, Brookdale Senior Living accounted for $121.4 million, or 12.9%, of our total revenues and 19.1% of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations), and $121.5 million, or 12.8%, of our total revenues and 19.2% of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations), respectively. This concentration of rental revenues and NOI creates credit risk. As a result, Kindred's and Brookdale Senior Living's financial condition and ability to meet their rental payments and other obligations to us has a significant impact on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Any failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively conduct its operations could have a material adverse effect on its business reputation or on its ability to enlist and maintain patients in its facilities, which could also affect its ability to pay rent to us. See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our BusinessWe depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness of Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and "Note 3Concentration of Credit Risk" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We regularly monitor the credit risk under our lease agreements with our tenants by, among other things, (i) reviewing and analyzing information regarding the healthcare industry generally, publicly available information regarding tenants, and information provided by the tenants and borrowers under our lease and other agreements, and (ii) having periodic discussions with tenants, borrowers and their representatives.
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, senior living operations managed by Sunrise accounted for $421.1 million, or 44.7%, of our total revenues and 18.5% of our total EBITDA (including amounts in discontinued operations), and $429.6 million, or 45.4%, of our total revenues and 20.0% of our total EBITDA (including amounts in discontinued operations), respectively.
We are party to management agreements with Sunrise pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing communities. Each management agreement has a term of 30 years from its effective date, the earliest of which began in 2004. Pursuant to the management agreements, we pay Sunrise a base management fee of 6% of resident fees and similar revenues, subject to reduction based on below target performance relating to NOI for a pool of properties. The minimum management fee assessable under these agreements is 5% of resident fees and similar revenues of the properties. We also pay incentive fees if a pool of properties exceeds aggregate performance targets relating to NOI; provided, however, that total management fees, including incentive fees, shall not exceed 8% of resident fees and similar revenues. In 2009, we paid a 5.0% management fee for 76 properties and management fees of between 6.0% and 6.5% for three properties. The management agreements also specify that we (or the joint venture to which we are party, as applicable) will reimburse Sunrise for direct or indirect costs necessary to manage our seniors housing communities.
We may terminate our management agreements upon the occurrence of an event of default by Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of any licenses or certificates necessary for operation), subject in each case to Sunrise's rights to cure deficiencies. Each management agreement may also be terminated upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise. In addition, if a minimum number of properties fail to achieve a targeted NOI level for a given period, then we may terminate the management agreement on each property in such underperforming pool. This targeted NOI level for each property is based upon an expected operating income projection set at the commencement of the management agreement for the applicable property, with such projection escalating annually. However, various legal and contractual considerations may limit or delay our exercise of any or all of these termination rights.
As of December 31, 2009, we had 75% to 85% interests in 60 seniors housing communities owned in joint ventures with Sunrise, who only has protective rights related to major business decisions. Each of these joint ventures is managed by a board of managers or a general partner, each of which we control. As the controlling member or partner, as the case may be, we have sole authority to make all decisions for our Sunrise joint ventures, except for a limited set of major decisions, which generally include:
 
 
 
 
 
We can generally transfer our interest in a Sunrise joint venture, without consent, to anyone other than large seniors housing operators or their majority investors. However, Sunrise must obtain our prior consent for any direct or indirect transfer of its noncontrolling interest. With limited exceptions, profits and losses of the joint ventures are allocated on a pro rata basis in accordance with the ownership interests. If either member fails to make a required capital contribution to a joint venture after notice and a cure period, the non-defaulting member may (i) revoke the capital contribution funding notice, (ii) advance to the joint venture the amount of the required capital contribution on behalf of the defaulting member in the form of a loan to the defaulting member, with all of the defaulting member's subsequent distributions being applied to the loan until repayment in full, or (iii) advance the capital on behalf of the defaulting member with a recalculation of each member's proportionate interest in the joint venture pursuant to the applicable formula in the agreements. Many of our Sunrise joint venture agreements provide for a punitive reduction in the defaulting member's proportionate interest in the event of an advance of capital by a non-defaulting member pursuant to option (iii). The joint ventures are generally limited to incurring new or refinanced mortgage indebtedness in excess of 75% of the market value of its properties.
See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our BusinessThe properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Adverse developments in Sunrise's business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Lease Expirations
As our triple-net leases expire, we are exposed to the risks that our tenants may elect not to renew their leases and, in such event, that we may be unable to reposition the applicable properties on as favorable terms or at all. The following table summarizes our triple-net lease expirations scheduled to occur over the next ten years. (This table has not been updated to reflect discontinued operations treatment for all properties reflected as held for sale during the first three months of 2010.)
 
 
The failure of our tenants to renew our leases could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our BusinessWe may be unable to reposition our properties on as favorable terms, or at all, if we have to replace any of our tenants or operators, and we may be subject to delays, limitations and expenses in repositioning our assets" included in Part I, Item IA of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
During 2009, our principal sources of liquidity were proceeds from issuances of debt and equity securities, debt financings, sales of assets and cash flows from operations. During the next twelve months, our principal liquidity needs are to: (i) fund normal operating expenses; (ii) meet our debt service requirements; (iii) repay $173.8 million of mortgage debt; (iv) fund capital expenditures for our senior living operations and our MOBs; (v) fund acquisitions, investments and/or commitments; and (vi) make distributions to our stockholders to maintain our REIT qualification under the Code. We believe that these needs will be satisfied by cash flows from operations, cash on hand, debt financings, proceeds from sales of assets and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities. However, if these sources of capital are not available and/or if we make significant acquisitions and investments, we may be required to obtain funding from additional borrowings, assume debt from the seller, dispose of assets (in whole or in part through joint venture arrangements with third parties) and/or issue secured or unsecured long-term debt or other securities. See "Risk FactorsRisks Arising from Our Capital StructureLimitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business plan" included in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of $107.4 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, consisting primarily of investments in U.S. treasury money market funds and cash related to our senior living operations that is deposited and held in property-level accounts. Funds maintained in the property-level accounts are used primarily for the payment of property-level expenses and certain capital expenditures. A portion of the cash maintained in these property-level accounts is distributed to us monthly. At December 31, 2009, we also had escrow deposits and restricted cash of $39.8 million, and unused credit availability of $988.4 million under our unsecured revolving credit facilities.
Unsecured Revolving Credit Facilities
Our aggregate borrowing capacity under the unsecured revolving credit facilities is $1.0 billion, of which $800.0 million matures on April 26, 2012 and $200.0 million matures on April 26, 2010. Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum (based on U.S. or Canadian LIBOR, Canadian Bankers' Acceptance rate, or the U.S. or Canadian Prime rate) plus an applicable percentage based on our consolidated leverage. At December 31, 2009, the applicable percentage was 0.75% for 2010 maturities and 2.80% for 2012 maturities. Our unsecured revolving credit facilities have a 20 basis point facility fee.
The agreements governing our unsecured revolving credit facilities subject us to a number of restrictive covenants. See "Note 8Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
As of February 15, 2010, we had approximately $9 million outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and approximately $155 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, for cash available of approximately $146 million.
Convertible Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2009, we had $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3
  7
/
8
%
 
Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 outstanding. The convertible notes are convertible at the option of the holder (i) prior to September 15, 2011, upon the occurrence of specified events and (ii) on or after September 15, 2011, at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to the stated maturity (December 1, 2011), in each case into cash up to the principal amount of the convertible notes and cash or shares of our common stock, at our election, in respect of any conversion value in excess of the principal amount at the current conversion rate of 22.9457 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which equates to a current conversion price of approximately $43.58 per share). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of a quarterly dividend in excess of $0.395 per share. To the extent the market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price our earnings per share will be diluted.
The indenture governing the convertible notes subjects us to a number of restrictive covenants. See "Note 8Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain of our subsidiaries have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the convertible notes.
Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2009, the following series of senior notes issued by our subsidiaries, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, were outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
During 2009, we issued and sold $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2016 at a 15
 3
/
4
% discount to par value for total proceeds of $168.5 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses. We also repaid in full, at par, $49.8 million principal amount of our outstanding 8
 3
/
4
% senior notes due 2009 at maturity on May 1, 2009, and purchased in open market transactions and/or through cash tender offers $361.6 million of our senior notes composed of: $121.6 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2010; $109.4 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2012; $103.3 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2014; and $27.3 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2015. We recognized a net loss on extinguishment of debt of $6.1 million related to these purchases.
During 2008, we purchased $124.4 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2009 and $52.0 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2010 in open market transactions. As a result of these purchases, we recorded a $2.5 million gain on the extinguishment of debt in 2008.
We may, from time to time, seek to retire or purchase additional amounts of the outstanding senior notes for cash and/or in exchange for equity securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, prospects for future access to capital and other factors. The amounts involved may be material.
The indentures governing the senior notes subject us to a number of restrictive covenants. However, at any time we maintain investment grade ratings by both Moody's and S&P, the indentures provide that certain of these restrictive covenants will either be suspended or fall away. See "Note 8Borrowing Arrangements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We and certain of our subsidiaries have fully and unconditionally guaranteed the senior notes.
Mortgage Loan Obligations
During 2008, we assumed $34.6 million of facility-level mortgage debt in connection with certain property acquisitions. See "Note 4Acquisitions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Total facility-level mortgage debt outstanding was approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.
During 2009, we closed a pool of seventeen first mortgage loans through a government-sponsored entity aggregating $132.1 million principal amount. These loans, which are secured by seventeen of our seniors housing communities, mature in July 2019 and bear interest at a weighted average fixed rate of 6.68% per annum. We also closed a first mortgage loan through a government-sponsored entity in the original principal amount of $40.5 million. This loan is secured by one seniors housing community, matures in November 2014 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.14% per annum.
Dividends
In order to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must make annual distributions to our stockholders of at least 90% of REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gain). Our quarterly dividends in 2009 aggregated $2.05 per share, which is greater than 100% of our 2009 estimated taxable income. We also intend to pay dividends greater than 100% of taxable income for 2010. On February 17, 2010, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.535 per share, payable in cash on March 31, 2010 to holders of record on March 12, 2010.
We expect that REIT taxable income will be less than cash flow due to the allowance of depreciation and other non-cash deductions in computing REIT taxable income. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. If we do not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, or if we desire to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements or any combination of the foregoing. See "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax ConsiderationsRequirements for Qualification as a REITAnnual Distribution Requirements" included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Capital Expenditures
Our tenants generally bear the responsibility to maintain and improve our triple-net leased properties. Accordingly, we do not expect to incur any major capital expenditures in connection with these properties. After the terms of the triple-net leases expire, or in the event that the tenants are unable or unwilling to meet their obligations under those leases, we anticipate funding any capital expenditures for which we may become responsible by cash flows from operations or through additional borrowings. With respect to our MOBs and our senior living communities managed by Sunrise, we expect that capital expenditures will be funded by the cash flows from the properties or through additional borrowings. To the extent that unanticipated expenditures or significant borrowings are required, our liquidity may be affected adversely. Our ability to borrow funds may be restricted in certain circumstances by the terms of our unsecured revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding Senior Notes. Our ability to borrow may also be limited by our lenders' ability and willingness to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests under our unsecured revolving credit facilities.
Equity Offerings
In April 2009, we filed an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Commission relating to the sale, from time to time, of an indeterminate amount of debt securities and related guarantees, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The registration statement replaced our previous automatic shelf registration statement, which expired pursuant to the Commission's rules.
In April 2009, we completed the sale of 13,062,500 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to the shelf registration statement. We received $312.2 million in aggregate proceeds from the sale, which we used, together with our net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes due 2016, to fund our cash tender offers with respect to the outstanding senior notes, to repay debt and for general corporate purposes.
In 2008, we sold 9,236,083 shares of our common stock in two underwritten public offerings pursuant to our previous shelf registration statement. We received aggregate proceeds of $409.0 million from the sales, which we used to repay indebtedness outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
Other
We received proceeds of $2.2 million and $6.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, from the exercises of outstanding stock options. Future proceeds from the exercises of stock options will be primarily affected by the future performance of our stock price and the number of options outstanding. Options outstanding have increased to 1.6 million as of December 31, 2009, from 1.4 million as of December 31, 2008. The average weighted exercise price was $35.85 as of December 31, 2009.
We issued approximately 20,800 and 18,400 shares of common stock under our Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, for net proceeds of $0.6 million and $0.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We currently offer a 1% discount on the purchase price of our stock to shareholders who reinvest their dividends and/or make optional cash purchases of common stock through the plan. Each month or quarter, as applicable, we may lower or eliminate the discount without prior notice, thereby affecting the future proceeds that we receive from this plan.
Cash Flows
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities was $422.1 million and $379.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities increased in 2009 primarily due to higher rental income, lower interest expense and changes in working capital, partially offset by lower NOI from our senior living operations and increased merger-related expenses and deal costs.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities was $1.7 million and $136.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These activities consisted primarily of investments in real estate ($45.7 million and $53.8 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively), capital expenditures ($13.8 million and $16.4 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively), investments in loans receivable and marketable debt securities ($13.8 million and $172.5 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively), proceeds from mortgage loans ($8.0 million and $0.1 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively), proceeds from the sale of investments ($5.0 million in 2009) and proceeds from real estate disposals ($58.5 million and $104.2 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively).
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash used in financing activities totaled $490.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Proceeds primarily consisted of $365.7 million related to the issuance of debt and $299.2 million from the issuance of common stock. The uses primarily included $292.9 million of net payments made on our unsecured revolving credit facilities, $16.7 million of payments for deferred financing costs, $314.4 million of cash dividend payments to common stockholders, $411.5 million of senior note purchases and repayments, $113.7 million of aggregate principal payments on mortgage obligations and $9.9 million of distributions to noncontrolling interest.
Net cash used in financing activities totaled $96.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and included $288.8 million of cash dividend payments to common stockholders, $416.9 million of aggregate principal payments on mortgage obligations and $15.7 million of distributions to noncontrolling interest. The uses were partially offset by proceeds of $408.5 million from the issuance of common stock, $140.3 million from the issuance of debt and $73.4 million of net borrowings on our unsecured revolving credit facilities.
Contractual Obligations
The following table summarizes the effect that minimum debt (which includes principal and interest payments) and other material noncancelable commitments are expected to have on our cash flow in future periods as of December 31, 2009.
 
 
As of December 31, 2009, we had $15.0 million of unrecognized tax benefits that have been excluded from the table above, as we are unable to make a reasonable reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authority.
 
The information set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsAsset/Liability Management" is incorporated by reference into this Item 7A.
 
 
Management of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management, with the participation of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management has determined that the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 was effective.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report included herein.
Stockholders and Board of Directors
Ventas, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ventas, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index to the financial statements and schedule. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Ventas, Inc. at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for convertible debt instruments and noncontrolling interests with the adoption of the guidance originally issued in FASB Staff Position APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (codified primarily in FASB ASC Topic 470, Debt) and FASB Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 (codified primarily in FASB ASC Topic 810, Consolidation), respectively, effective January 1, 2009 and applied retroactively.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Ventas, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in "Internal Control-Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 19, 2010, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
19 February 2010, except for Notes 5, 13, 18,
and 19 as to which the date is 30 April 2010
Stockholders and Board of Directors
Ventas, Inc.
We have audited Ventas, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Ventas, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Ventas, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 2009 consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Ventas, Inc. and our report dated February 19, 2010 (except for Notes 5, 13, 18 and 19, as to which the date is April 30, 2010) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
19 February 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1Description of Business
Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or except where the context otherwise requires, "we," "us" or "our") is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2009, this portfolio consisted of 505 assets: 244 seniors housing communities, 187 skilled nursing facilities, 40 hospitals and 34 medical office buildings ("MOBs") and other properties in 43 states and two Canadian provinces. With the exception of our seniors housing communities that are managed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Sunrise") pursuant to long-term management agreements and the majority of our MOBs, we lease our properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "Kindred") leased 197 of our properties and Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, which include Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. ("Brookdale") and Alterra Healthcare Corporation ("Alterra"), "Brookdale Senior Living") leased 84 of our properties as of December 31, 2009. We also had real estate loan investments relating to seniors housing and healthcare companies or properties as of December 31, 2009.
We conduct substantially all of our business through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("Ventas Realty"), PSLT OP, L.P. and Ventas SSL, Inc. Our primary business consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties and leasing those properties to third parties or operating those properties through independent third party managers.
Note 2Accounting Policies
On July 1, 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") launched the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"), which changes U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") from a standards-based model to a topical-based model. The topics are organized by ASC number and are updated with an Accounting Standards Update. The ASC is the single source of nongovernmental authoritative GAAP for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The ASC did not have any impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements as it does not change the accounting of or disclosure for transactions, only how GAAP guidance is catalogued and referenced.
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and the joint venture entities over which we exercise control. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation, and net earnings are reduced by the portion of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests.
We apply FASB guidance for arrangements with variable interest entities ("VIEs"), which requires the identification of entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights and the determination of which a business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity with one or more of the following characteristics: (a) the total equity investment at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support; (b) as a group the holders of the equity investment at risk lack (i) the ability to make decisions about an entity's activities through voting or similar rights, (ii) the obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity, or (iii) the right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity; or (c) the equity investors have voting rights that are not proportional to their economic interests, and substantially all of the entity's activities either involve, or are conducted on behalf of, an investor that has disproportionately few voting rights. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE. Changes to our original assessment of a VIE can occur from events such as the modification of contractual arrangements that affects the characteristics or adequacy of the entity's equity investments at risk and the disposal of all or a portion of an interest held by the primary beneficiary. We consider qualitative and quantitative factors when determining whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a VIE. These factors include, but are not limited to, the form of our ownership interest, our representation on the entity's governing body, the size and seniority of our investment, various cash flow scenarios related to the VIE, our ability to participate in policy making decisions and the rights of the other investors to participate in the decision making process and to replace us as manager and/or liquidate the venture, if applicable. At December 31, 2009, we did not have any VIEs that we are not consolidating.
Further, we apply FASB guidance related to investments in joint ventures based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s) that preclude consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership in accordance with GAAP. The assessment of limited partners' rights and their impact on the presumption of control of the limited partnership by the sole general partner should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or (iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. This guidance is also applied to managing member interests in limited liability companies.
On January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB guidance which now requires minority interests to be characterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of consolidated equity. The calculation of income and earnings per share continues to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent and is characterized as net income attributable to common stockholders. As the ownership of a controlled subsidiary increases or decreases, any difference between the consideration paid and the adjustment to the noncontrolling interest balance must be recorded as a component of equity in additional paid-in capital, so long as we maintain a controlling ownership interest. As required, all prior year amounts have been reclassified to reflect our adoption of this guidance.
Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles
Investments in real estate assets are recorded at cost. We account for acquisitions using the purchase method and allocate the cost of the properties acquired among tangible and recognized intangible assets and liabilities based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Recognized intangibles include the value of acquired lease contracts, management agreements and related customer relationships.
Our method for determining fair value varies with the categorization of the asset or liability acquired. We estimate the fair value of buildings on an as-if-vacant basis and depreciate the building value over the estimated remaining life of the building. We determine the allocated value of other fixed assets based upon the replacement cost and depreciate such value over their estimated remaining useful lives. We determine the value of land either based on real estate tax assessed values in relation to the total value of the asset or on internal analyses of recently acquired and existing comparable properties within our portfolio. The fair value of in-place leases, if any, reflects (i) the estimated value of any above and/or below market leases, determined by discounting the difference between the estimated current market rent and the in-place rentals, the resulting intangible asset or liability of which is amortized to revenue over the remaining life of the associated lease plus any fixed rate renewal periods, if applicable, (ii) the estimated value of the cost to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances, tenant improvements and leasing commissions, which is amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease, and (iii) an estimated value of the absorption period to reflect the value of the rents and recovery costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the acquired space was vacant, which is also amortized over the remaining life of the associated lease. We estimate the value of tenant or other customer relationships acquired by considering the nature and extent of existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant's credit quality, expectations of lease renewals with the tenant, and the potential for significant, additional future leasing arrangements with the tenant and amortize that value over the expected term of the associated arrangements or leases, which includes the remaining lives of the related leases and any expected renewal periods. We calculate the fair value of long-term debt by discounting the remaining contractual cash flows on each instrument at the current market rate for those borrowings, which is approximated based on the rate we estimate we would incur to replace each instrument on the date of acquisition. Any fair value adjustments related to long-term debt are recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instrument.
Fixtures and equipment, with a net book value of $68.6 million and $73.3 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is included in net real estate property on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Depreciation is recorded on the straight-line basis, using estimated useful lives ranging from 20 to 50 years for buildings and improvements and three to ten years for fixtures and equipment. Depreciation is discontinued when a property is identified as held for sale.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, primarily consisting of our investments in real estate, for impairment indicators. If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value of the related real estate investments in relation to the future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying operations, and we adjust the net book value of leased properties and other long-lived assets to fair value if the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows including sales proceeds is less than book value. An impairment loss is recognized at the time we make any such determination. Future events could occur that would cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted. We did not record any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
Certain long-lived assets are classified as held-for-sale. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or their fair value less cost to sell and are no longer depreciated. Discontinued operations is defined as a component of an entity that has either been disposed of or is deemed to be held-for-sale if both the operations and cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from ongoing operations as a result of the disposal transaction and the entity will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the component after the disposal transaction. The results of operations and gain or loss on assets sold or held-for-sale are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Interest expense allocated to discontinued operations has been estimated based on a proportional allocation of rental income and identified mortgage interest, or some combination thereof.
Loans Receivable
Loans receivable are stated at the unpaid principal balance net of any deferred origination fees, purchase discounts or premiums and/or valuation allowances. Net deferred origination fees, which are comprised of loan fees collected from the borrower net of certain direct costs, and purchase discounts or premiums are amortized to income over the contractual life of the loan using the effective interest method. We evaluate the collectibility of loans and other amounts receivable from third parties based on a number of factors, including (i) corporate and facility-level financial and operational reports, (ii) compliance with the financial covenants set forth in the applicable loan or lease agreement, (iii) the financial stability of the applicable borrower or tenant and any guarantor, (iv) the payment history of the borrower or tenant, and (v) current economic conditions. Our level of reserves, if any, for loans and other amounts receivable from third parties fluctuates depending upon all of these factors. The valuation allowance for loan losses was $3.7 million and $5.5 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. See "Note 6Loans Receivable."
Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with a maturity date of three months or less when purchased. These investments are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.
Escrow Deposits and Restricted Cash
Escrow deposits consist of amounts held by us or lenders to provide for future real estate tax and insurance expenditures and tenant improvements related to our operations and properties. Restricted cash represents amounts paid to us for security deposits and other purposes.
Deferred Financing Costs
Deferred financing costs are amortized as a component of interest expense over the terms of the related borrowings using a method that approximates a level yield, and are net of accumulated amortization of approximately $29.3 million and $19.8 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Amortized costs of approximately $14.6 million, $7.6 million and $5.9 million were included in interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Marketable Debt and Equity Securities
We record marketable debt and equity securities as available-for-sale and classify them as a component of other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These securities are recorded at fair market value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest income, including discount or premium amortization, on marketable debt securities and gains or losses on securities sold, which are based on the specific identification method, are reported in income from loans and investments on our Consolidated Statements of Income. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we realized gains related to the sale of various marketable debt and equity securities of $0.2 million, $0 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
Derivative Instruments
From time to time, we may use derivative instruments to protect our future cash flows against the risk of interest rate movements under our variable rate debt agreements and the risk of foreign currency exchange rate movements. Derivative instruments are reported at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized as adjustments to net income if the derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting. If the derivative is deemed to be eligible for hedge accounting, such changes are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, exclusive of ineffectiveness amounts, which are recognized as adjustments to net income.
In January 2007, we entered into two Canadian call options in conjunction with our agreement to acquire the assets of Sunrise Senior Living Real Estate Investment Trust ("Sunrise REIT"). See "Note 4Acquisitions." We paid an aggregate purchase price of $8.5 million for these contracts, which had an aggregate notional call amount of Cdn $750.0 million at a Cdn $1.18 strike price. These contracts were settled on April 26, 2007, the acquisition date, and we received $33.2 million in cash upon settlement. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized gains related to these call option contracts of $24.7 million, which is included in our Consolidated Statements of Income as a foreign currency gain.
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
On January 1, 2008, we adopted FASB guidance which defines fair value and provides direction for measuring fair value and providing the necessary disclosures. This guidance does not require any new fair value measurements, but rather applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
The guidance emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement and should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the guidance establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within levels one and two of the hierarchy) and the reporting entity's own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within level three of the hierarchy).
Level one inputs utilize unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access. Level two inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in level one that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level two inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, other than quoted prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level three inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, which are typically based on the reporting entity's own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.
We determined the valuation of our current investments in marketable securities using level one inputs. Additionally, we determined the valuation allowance for loan losses based on level three inputs. See "Note 6Loans Receivable."
On January 1, 2009, we adopted additional FASB guidance related to fair value, which delayed the requirements related to the valuation of nonfinancial assets and liabilities. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We use the following methods and assumptions in estimating fair value disclosures for financial instruments.
 
 
 
 
In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance relating to the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments, which requires entities to separate an other-than-temporary impairment of a fixed maturity security into two components when (i) there are credit losses associated with the security that management asserts that it does not have an intent to sell and (ii) it is more likely than not that the entity will not be required to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis. The amount of the other-than-temporary impairment related to a credit loss is recognized in earnings, and the amount of the other-than-temporary impairment related to other factors is recorded in other comprehensive loss. The guidance is effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009. We elected to adopt this guidance during the second quarter of 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In April 2009, the FASB issued additional guidance relating to fair value determinations. The guidance provides that if an entity determines there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability in relation to the normal market activity for such asset or liability (or similar assets or liabilities), then transactions or quoted prices may not accurately reflect fair value. In addition, if there is evidence that the transaction for the asset or liability is not orderly, the entity shall place little, if any, weight on that transaction price as an indicator of fair value. The guidance is effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009. We elected to adopt this guidance effective January 1, 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance relating to the disclosure of fair value information in interim and annual financial statements. This guidance is effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009. We adopted this guidance during the second quarter of 2009. The adoption did not have any effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition
Certain of our leases, including the majority of our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, provide for periodic and determinable increases in base rent. Base rental revenues under these leases are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the applicable lease. Income on our straight-line revenue is recognized when collectibility is reasonably assured, and in the event we determine that collectibility of straight-line revenue is not reasonably assured, we establish an allowance for estimated losses. Recognizing rental income on a straight-line basis results in recognized revenue exceeding cash amounts contractually due from our tenants during the first half of the term for leases that have straight-line treatment. The cumulative excess is included in other assets, net of allowances, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $78.4 million and $68.2 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Our master lease agreements with Kindred (the "Kindred Master Leases") and certain of our other leases provide for an annual increase in rental payments only if certain revenue parameters or other substantive contingencies are met. We recognize the increased rental revenue under these leases only if the revenue parameters or other substantive contingencies are met, rather than on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease. We recognize income from rent, lease termination fees and all other income when all of the following criteria are met in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") Staff Accounting Bulletin 104: (i) the agreement has been fully executed and delivered; (ii) services have been rendered; (iii) the amount is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured.
We recognize resident fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are provided. Move-in fees, a component of resident fees and services, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable lease agreement. Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days' notice.
Stock-Based Compensation
We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with FASB guidance requiring all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income on a straight-line basis as the requisite service periods are rendered based on their grant date fair values.
Gain on Sale of Assets
We recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits and classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We recognize gains on assets sold using the full accrual method upon closing when the collectibility of the sales price is reasonably assured, we are not obligated to perform any significant activities after the sale to earn the profit, we have received adequate initial investment from the buyer, and other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the following requirements of gain recognition: (i) the profit is determinable, meaning that the collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured or the amount that will not be collectible can be estimated; and (ii) the earnings process is virtually complete, meaning that we are not obliged to perform any significant activities after the sale to earn the profit.
Federal Income Tax
Since we have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), we make no provision for REIT income and expense, other than for certain unrecognized tax benefit items. However, we record income tax expense or benefit with respect to certain of our entities which are taxed as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" under provisions similar to those applicable to regular corporations.
Deferred income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. An increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and which causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset, would be included in the tax provision when the changes in circumstances and our judgment occurs.
Foreign Currency
Certain of our subsidiaries' functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during the period, whereas balance sheet accounts are translated using exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. Resulting currency translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity, in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Transaction gains and losses are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Segment Reporting
As of December 31, 2009, we operated through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. Our triple-net leased properties segment consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and leasing those properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior living operations segment consists of investments in seniors housing communities located in the United States and Canada for which we engage Sunrise to manage the operations.
We acquired the senior living operations segment on April 26, 2007, pursuant to the purchase of the Sunrise REIT properties. With the addition of these properties, we believed segment differentiation would be appropriate based on the different economic and legal structures used to acquire and own those assets. Prior to the acquisition, we operated through one reportable segment  investment in real estate  which included the triple-net leased properties and our MOBs. Our MOB business consists of leasing space primarily to physicians and other healthcare businesses and engaging third parties to manage those operations. Due to our limited operation of and allocation of capital to the MOBs, we separated them from the triple-net leased properties segment. However, the MOB segment is not individually reported and is included in "All Other" because it does not meet necessary quantitative thresholds at the current time. See "Note 18Segment Information."
Business Combinations
On January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB guidance related to business combinations, which requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to measure the assets acquired, liabilities assumed (including contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair values on the acquisition date. The guidance also requires that acquisition-related transaction costs be expensed as incurred, acquired research and development value be capitalized and acquisition-related restructuring costs be capitalized only if they meet certain criteria. This guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements at the time of adoption. Beginning January 1, 2009, we began expensing acquisition-related transaction costs as incurred. These costs are included in merger-related expenses and deal costs on our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Convertible Debt Instruments
On January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB guidance relating to convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion. The guidance specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time our convertible senior notes were issued was 6
 1
/
8
%. As required, all prior year amounts have been restated to reflect our adoption of this guidance. As a result of the adoption, interest expense increased and net income decreased by $3.9 million ($0.03 per diluted share), $3.7 million ($0.03 per diluted share) and $3.4 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and total equity increased by $12.1 million at December 31, 2008, which includes the calculated equity component of $19.5 million. As of December 31, 2009, the remaining unamortized liability component was $220.9 million.
Subsequent Events
In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance relating to subsequent events, which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. The guidance sets forth the period after the balance sheet date during which management should evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements and the circumstances under which an entity should recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements. We are required to disclose the date through which we have evaluated subsequent events and transactions and the basis for that date. We adopted this guidance during the second quarter of 2009. The adoption did not have any effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have evaluated disclosure of subsequent events and transactions through the time of filing on February 19, 2010 for this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
On January 1, 2010, we adopted FASB guidance related to variable interest accounting. The guidance requires an enterprise to analyze whether its variable interest gives it a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. This analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity as the enterprise that has both of the following characteristics: (i) the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses or receive benefits of the variable interest entity that could potentially be significant to the entity. The guidance requires an enterprise to perform this analysis on an ongoing basis and requires additional disclosures about an enterprise's involvement in variable interest entities. We do not believe the adoption of this guidance will impact our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Note 3Concentration of Credit Risk
As of December 31, 2009, approximately 38.9%, 21.8% and 14.1% of our properties, based on the gross book value of real estate investments (including assets held for sale), were managed or operated by Sunrise, Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred, respectively. Seniors housing communities and skilled nursing facilities constituted approximately 74.1% and 12.6%, respectively, of our portfolio, based on the gross book value of real estate investments (including assets held for sale), as of December 31, 2009, with the remaining properties consisting of hospitals, MOBs and other healthcare assets. These properties were located in 43 states, with properties in only two states accounting for more than 10% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations related to properties held for sale at December 31, 2009) during the year ended December 31, 2009, and two Canadian provinces. Properties in two states accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Approximately 26.2%, 25.5% and 30.8% of our total revenues and 38.5%, 38.0% and 41.5% of our total NOI (net operating income) (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were derived from our four Kindred Master Leases. Approximately 12.9%, 12.8% and15.7% of our total revenues and 19.1%, 19.2% and 21.2% of our total NOI (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were derived from our lease agreements with Brookdale Senior Living. Each of the Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living is a triple-net lease pursuant to which the tenant is required to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repairs related to the properties. In addition, the tenants are required to comply with the terms of the mortgage financing documents, if any, affecting the properties.
The following table sets forth the future contracted minimum rentals, excluding contingent rent escalations, but with straight-line rents where applicable, for all of our triple-net leases. (This table has not been updated to reflect discontinued operations treatment for all properties reflected as held for sale during the first three months of 2010.)
 
In view of the fact that Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living lease a substantial portion of our triple-net leased properties and are each a significant source of our revenues and operating income, their financial condition and ability and willingness to satisfy their obligations under their respective leases and other agreements with us, as well as their willingness to renew those leases upon expiration of the terms thereof, have a considerable impact on our results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to satisfy its obligations under its respective leases and other agreements with us, and any inability or unwillingness on its part to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, on our ability to service our indebtedness and on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, as required for us to continue to qualify as a REIT (a "Material Adverse Effect"). We also cannot assure you that Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will elect to renew its respective leases with us upon expiration of the initial base terms or any renewal terms thereof.
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, senior living operations managed by Sunrise accounted for approximately 44.7% and 45.4% of our total revenues and 18.5% and 20.0% of our total EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) (including amounts in discontinued operations), respectively. Approximately 36.2% of our total revenues and 13.8% of our total EBITDA (including amounts in discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2007 were attributable to senior living operations managed by Sunrise for the period from April 26, 2007 (the date of the Sunrise REIT acquisition) through December 31, 2007.
Unlike Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living, Sunrise does not lease properties from us, but rather acts as a property manager for all of our senior living operations. Therefore, while we are not directly exposed to credit risk with Sunrise, Sunrise's inability to efficiently and effectively manage our properties and to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Although we have various rights as owner under the Sunrise management agreements, we rely on Sunrise's personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set resident fees and otherwise operate those properties pursuant to our management agreements. Any adverse developments in Sunrise's business and affairs or financial condition, including without limitation, the acceleration of its indebtedness, the inability to renew or extend its revolving credit facility, the enforcement of default remedies by its counterparties, or the commencement of insolvency proceedings under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code by or against Sunrise could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Each of Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living and Sunrise is subject to the reporting requirements of the Commission and is required to file with the Commission annual reports containing audited financial information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. The information related to Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living and Sunrise contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from filings made by Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living or Sunrise, as the case may be, with the Commission or other publicly available information, or has been provided to us by Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living or Sunrise. We have not verified this information either through an independent investigation or by reviewing Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's or Sunrise's public filings. We have no reason to believe that this information is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot assure you that all of this information is accurate. Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's and Sunrise's filings with the Commission can be found at the Commission's website at www.sec.gov. We are providing this data for informational purposes only, and you are encouraged to obtain Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's and Sunrise's publicly available filings from the Commission.
Note 4Acquisitions of Real Estate Property
The following summarizes our acquisitions in 2009, 2008 and 2007. We completed these acquisitions primarily to invest in additional seniors housing and healthcare properties and achieve an expected yield on investment, as well as to diversify our portfolio and revenue base and reduce our dependence on any single operator, geography or asset type for our revenue.
2009 Acquisitions
We purchased four MOBs for an aggregate purchase price of $77.7 million, including $1.7 million of noncontrolling interest, increasing our MOB investments to over 1.7 million square feet. We own one of these MOBs through a joint venture, which we consolidate, with a partner that provides management and leasing services for the property. The purchase price was allocated between building and improvements, tenant improvements and lease intangibles of $60.9 million, $11.1 million and $5.7 million, respectively. Additionally, in 2009, we purchased one skilled nursing facility for $10.0 million and leased it to Brookdale Senior Living. The purchase price was allocated between land of $0.7 million and building and improvements of $9.3 million.
We also completed the development of two MOBs pursuant to an arrangement we entered into with a nationally recognized private developer of MOBs and healthcare facilities in 2008. That arrangement gave us the exclusive right, as part of a joint venture, to develop up to ten identified MOBs on hospital campuses in eight states. As of December 31, 2009, we had invested approximately $35.6 million, including $1.4 million of noncontrolling interest, in two MOBs under the arrangement, both of which we consolidate. The investment was allocated between land, building and improvements and tenant improvements of $1.4 million, $25.5 million and $8.7 million, respectively.
2008 Acquisitions
We acquired a 47-unit seniors housing community located in Texas for $5.1 million, which is currently being leased to an affiliate of Capital Senior Living Corporation. The purchase price was allocated to building and improvements based upon estimated fair value.
We acquired three MOBs for an aggregate purchase price of $66.8 million, inclusive of assumed debt of $34.6 million at the time of the acquisitions. The purchase price was allocated between land, building and improvements, tenant improvements and lease intangibles of $4.6 million, $59.1 million, $3.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively, based upon their estimated fair values. One of these MOBs is owned through a joint venture, which we consolidate, with a partner that provides management and leasing services for the property.
As of December 31, 2008, we had invested approximately $8.7 million in the two MOBs that were both under development pursuant to our exclusive joint venture arrangement described above.
Sunrise REIT Acquisition
In 2007, we acquired from Sunrise REIT a portfolio of 77 communities managed by Sunrise for approximately $2.0 billion, including assumed debt. We acquired a 100% ownership interest in eighteen seniors housing communities and a 75% to 85% ownership interest in 59 additional seniors housing communities, with the noncontrolling interest in those 59 communities being owned by affiliates of Sunrise. Of these 77 communities, 66 are located in metropolitan areas of nineteen U.S. states and eleven are located in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia.
We funded the Sunrise REIT acquisition through $530.0 million of borrowings under a senior interim loan, an equity-backed facility providing for the issuance of 700,000 shares of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, and the assumption of $861.1 million of existing mortgage debt. In May 2007, we completed the sale of 26,910,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering and used the net proceeds from the sale ($1.05 billion), along with the proceeds of the disposition of certain of our Kindred assets (see "Note 5Dispositions") and borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, to redeem all of our Series A Senior Preferred Stock and to repay our indebtedness under the senior interim loan. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we expensed $5.2 million of preferred stock dividends and issuance costs related to the Series A Senior Preferred Stock and $5.0 million of fees and interest associated with the senior interim loan (the latter of which is included in interest expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007).
Later in 2007, we acquired 80% ownership interests in two additional seniors housing communities, one located in Staten Island, New York for approximately $25.5 million, inclusive of our share of assumed debt of $15.3 million, and one in Vaughan, Ontario for approximately Cdn $43.6 million, inclusive of our share of assumed construction debt of Cdn $23.3 million. The joint venture for the Vaughan, Ontario property has the ability to borrow an additional Cdn $5.8 million under the existing construction loan for capital improvements.
We incurred certain merger-related expenses in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Merger-related expenses include incremental costs directly related to the acquisition and expenses relating to our litigation with HCP, Inc. ("HCP") (see "Note 14Litigation").
Other 2007 Acquisitions
We acquired two seniors housing communities for an aggregate purchase price of $18.5 million, inclusive of assumed debt of $9.0 million at the time of the acquisition. The purchase price was allocated between land and buildings and improvements of $0.7 million and $17.8 million, respectively, based upon their estimated fair values. These properties are being leased to affiliates of Senior Care, Inc. ("Senior Care").
We acquired eight MOBs, in seven separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of $150.5 million, inclusive of assumed debt of $21.5 million at the time of the acquisitions. The purchase price was allocated between land and buildings and improvements of $7.6 million and $142.9 million, respectively, based upon their estimated fair values. Two of these MOBs are currently owned through joint ventures, which we consolidate, with two different partners that provide management and leasing services for the properties.
Note 5Dispositions
We present separately, as discontinued operations, in all periods presented the results of operations for all assets held for sale or disposed of during the three-year period ended December 31, 2009.
2010 Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale
During the three months ended March 31, 2010, we classified the operations and net book values of five seniors housing communities as held for sale. We expect to record a gain from the sale of these assets during the second quarter of 2010. The operations for these assets have been reported as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.
In February 2010, we sold one seniors housing community for approximately $2.5 million. The net book value of this asset, $2.4 million, was reflected as held for sale as of December 31, 2009. We recognized a gain from the sale of this asset of $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2010. The operations for this asset have been reported as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.
2009 Dispositions
In June 2009, we sold six skilled nursing facilities to Kindred for total consideration of $58.0 million, consisting of a $55.7 million aggregate sale price and a $2.3 million lease termination fee. The proceeds from the sale were held in a Code Section 1031 exchange escrow account with a qualified intermediary and used for our acquisition of three MOBs in December 2009. Cash rent for these assets for the May 1, 2008 to April 30, 2009 lease year was approximately $5.6 million. We recognized a gain from the sale of these assets of $39.3 million in the second quarter of 2009.
During 2009, we also sold five seniors housing communities, one hospital, one MOB and one other property to the existing tenants for an aggregate sale price of $96.2 million and transferred related debt of $38.8 million. We recognized a net gain from the sales of these assets of $27.5 million in 2009.
2008 Dispositions
In December 2008, we sold five seniors housing communities to the existing tenant for an aggregate sale price of $62.5 million. We realized a gain from the sale of these assets of $21.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, $8.3 million of which was deferred due to a $10.0 million loan we made to the buyer in conjunction with the sale and will be recognized over a period of three years from the date of the sale. We recognized $0.5 million of the gain during the year ended December 31, 2009. See "Note 6Loans Receivable."
In April 2008, we sold seven properties for an aggregate sale price of $69.1 million. We recognized a gain from the sale of these assets of $25.9 million in the second quarter of 2008. In addition, we received a lease termination fee from the tenant of $1.6 million.
2007 Dispositions
In June 2007, we completed the sale of 22 properties to Kindred for $171.5 million in net cash proceeds. Of these net proceeds, $14.1 million was held in a Code Section 1031 exchange escrow account with a qualified intermediary and subsequently used in the second half of 2007 for other acquisitions. See "Note 4Acquisitions." In addition, Kindred paid us a lease termination fee of $3.5 million. We recognized a gain on the sale of assets of $129.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2007.
Set forth below is a summary of the results of operations of properties sold or held for sale during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 , all of which were included in our triple-net leased properties segment, with the exception of one MOB sold during the first quarter of 2009 (included in all other for segment reporting purposes):
 
Note 6Loans Receivable
As of December 31, 2009, we had $131.9 million of net loans receivable relating to seniors housing and healthcare companies or properties.
In June 2008, we purchased $112.5 million principal amount of first mortgage debt issued by a national provider of healthcare services, primarily skilled nursing care. We purchased this debt at a discount for $98.8 million, resulting in an effective interest rate to maturity of LIBOR plus 533 basis points. Interest on the loan is payable monthly at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 125 basis points, and the loan matures in January 2012, but may be extended for one year, at the borrower's option, subject to certain conditions.
In 2008, we received a $10.0 million three-year note issued to us as partial consideration for five assets we sold in December 2008.
In 2005, we made three first mortgage loans (the "Sunwest Loans") in the aggregate principal amount of $20 million to affiliates of Sunwest Management, Inc. ("Sunwest"). The Sunwest Loans originally accrued interest at a non-default annual rate of 9% and were secured by four seniors housing communities and guaranteed by Sunwest and two of its principals. During 2008, the borrowers defaulted on their obligations under the Sunwest Loans, and we initiated foreclosure actions on the four secured assets. Due to the unfavorable capital markets and economic environment at that time, we recorded a provision for loan losses on the Sunwest Loans of $6.0 million. In September 2009, we completed the non-judicial foreclosure of a seniors housing asset related to one of the Sunwest Loans and immediately sold the property to an affiliate of one of our existing tenants for approximately $6.3 million. In connection with the sale, we provided $5.0 million of first mortgage financing to the purchaser, secured by, among other things, the property, and received cash consideration of $1.2 million after expenses. We recorded no gain or loss from this transaction. The loan matures in September 2012, bears interest at a variable rate of 30-day LIBOR plus 6.5% per annum and is guaranteed by our tenant. In December 2009, we obtained ownership through judicial foreclosure of another seniors housing asset related to another Sunwest Loan, which had a carrying amount of $1.1 million. Operations from this property will be consolidated into our consolidated financial statements beginning in 2010. The net carrying value of the remaining Sunwest Loan, secured by two seniors housing assets, as of December 31, 2009 was $7.9 million.
As of December 31, 2009, the remainder of our loans receivable consisted of a $6.5 million first mortgage loan receivable originated under our sourcing and services agreement with a third party to acquire or originate a diversified pool of mortgage loans secured by stable, cash flowing seniors housing and MOB assets. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, we acquired another $15.8 million in first mortgage investments identified by such third party under the sourcing and services agreement.
Note 7Intangibles
At December 31, 2009, intangible lease assets, comprised of above market resident leases, in-place resident leases and other intangibles, were $10.5 million, $96.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, these intangible lease assets were $7.4 million, $88.6 million and $2.2 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the accumulated amortization of the intangible assets was $92.6 and $89.2 million, respectively. The weighted average amortization period of our lease-related intangible assets at December 31, 2009 was approximately 8.0 years.
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, intangible lease liabilities, comprised of below market resident leases, were $15.1 million and $12.2 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the accumulated amortization of the intangible liabilities was $10.8 million and $10.0 million, respectively. The weighted average amortization period of intangible liabilities at December 31, 2009 was approximately 8.3 years.
Note 8Borrowing Arrangements
The following is a summary of our long-term debt and certain interest rate and maturity information as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
Unsecured Revolving Credit Facilities
Our aggregate borrowing capacity under the unsecured revolving credit facilities is $1.0 billion, of which $800.0 million matures on April 26, 2012 and $200.0 million matures on April 26, 2010. Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facilities bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum (based on U.S. or Canadian LIBOR, Canadian Bankers' Acceptance rate, or the U.S. or Canadian Prime rate) plus an applicable percentage based on our consolidated leverage. At December 31, 2009, the applicable percentage was 0.75% for 2010 maturities and 2.80% for 2012 maturities. Our unsecured revolving credit facilities have a 20 basis point facility fee. At December 31, 2009, we had $8.5 million outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and approximately $988.4 million of availability.
Convertible Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2009, we had $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3
 7
/
8
% convertible notes due 2011 outstanding. The convertible notes are convertible at the option of the holder (i) prior to September 15, 2011, upon the occurrence of specified events and (ii) on or after September 11, 2011, at any time prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to the stated maturity (December 1, 2011), in each case into cash up to the principal amount of the convertible notes and cash or shares of our common stock, at our election, in respect of any conversion value in excess of the principal amount at the current conversion rate of 22.9457 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which equates to a conversion price of approximately $43.58 per share). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of a quarterly dividend in excess of $0.395 per share. To the extent the market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, our earnings per share will be diluted. The convertible notes had a minimal dilutive impact per share for the year ended December 31, 2009. See "Note 13Earnings Per Share."
The convertible notes are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by Ventas Realty and by certain of our other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The convertible notes are part of our and the guarantors' general unsecured obligations, ranking equal in right of payment with all of our and the guarantors' existing and future senior obligations and ranking senior to all of our and the guarantors' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, the convertible notes are effectively subordinated to our and the guarantors' secured indebtedness, if any, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The convertible notes are also structurally subordinated to preferred equity and indebtedness, whether secured or unsecured, of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the convertible notes.
We may not redeem the convertible notes prior to maturity except to the extent necessary to preserve our status as a REIT.
If we experience certain kinds of changes of control, holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes to be repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase.
Senior Notes
As of December 31, 2009, we had $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued by our subsidiaries, Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Issuers") outstanding. We issued $200.0 million principal amount of each of our senior notes due 2016 and senior notes due 2017 at initial discounts to par value of
 1
/
2
% and
 5
/
8
%, respectively. We issued $50.0 million principal amount of our senior notes due 2014 at a 1% discount to par value.
During 2009, we issued and sold another $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2016 at a 15
 3
/
4
% discount to par value, for total proceeds of $168.5 million, before the underwriting discount and expenses. We also repaid in full, at par, $49.8 million principal amount of our senior notes due 2009 at maturity on May 1, 2009, and purchased in open market transactions and/or through cash tender offers $361.6 million of our senior notes composed of: $121.6 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2010; $109.4 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2012; $103.3 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2014; and $27.3 million principal amount of our outstanding senior notes due 2015. We recognized a net loss on extinguishment of debt of $6.1 million related to these purchases.
During 2008, we purchased $124.4 million principal amount of senior notes due 2009 and $52.0 million principal amount of senior notes due 2010 in open market transactions and reported a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $2.5 million.
The senior notes are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by us and by certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. The senior notes are part of our and the guarantors' general unsecured obligations, ranking equal in right of payment with all of our and the guarantors' existing and future senior obligations and ranking senior to all of our and the guarantors' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, the senior notes are effectively subordinated to our and the guarantors' secured indebtedness, if any, to the extent of the value of the assets securing that indebtedness. The senior notes are also structurally subordinated to the preferred equity and indebtedness, whether secured or unsecured, of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes.
The Issuers may redeem each series of senior notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, prior to maturity at varying redemption prices set forth in the applicable indenture, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date. In addition, at certain times, the Issuers may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of each series of senior notes with the net cash proceeds from certain equity offerings at the redemption price set forth in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
If we experience certain kinds of changes of control, the Issuers must make an offer to repurchase the senior notes, in whole or in part, at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount of the senior notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase; provided, however, that in the event Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") have confirmed their ratings at Ba3 or higher and BB- or higher on the senior notes and certain other conditions are met, this repurchase obligation will not apply.
Mortgages
At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding 121 mortgage loans totaling $1.5 billion that are collateralized by the underlying properties. The loans generally bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 5.1% to 8.5% per annum, except for twelve loans having aggregate outstanding principal balances totaling $216.0 million which bear interest at the lender's variable rates ranging from 1.0% to 4.5% per annum as of December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, the weighted average annual rate on our fixed rate mortgage loans was 6.3%, and the weighted average annual rate on our variable rate mortgage loans was 2.1%. Our mortgage loans had a weighted average maturity of 5.3 years as of December 31, 2009.
Scheduled Maturities of Borrowing Arrangements and Other Provisions
As of December 31, 2009, our indebtedness had the following maturities:
 
 
As of December 31, 2009, our joint venture partners' share of total debt was $159.0 million.
The instruments governing our senior notes and certain other indebtedness contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, (i) incur debt; (ii) make certain dividends, distributions and investments; (iii) enter into certain transactions; (iv) merge, consolidate or transfer certain assets; and (v) sell assets. At any time we maintain investment grade ratings by both Moody's and S&P, the indentures governing our senior notes provide that certain of these restrictive covenants will either be suspended or fall away. We and certain of our subsidiaries are also required to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of this group's unsecured debt. Our unsecured revolving credit facilities also require us to maintain certain financial covenants pertaining to, among other things, our consolidated leverage, secured debt, fixed charge coverage and net worth.
As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all of these covenants.
Derivatives and Hedging
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to the effect of interest rate movements on future cash flows under our variable rate debt obligations and the effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our senior living operations. We attempt to minimize these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivative instruments.
For interest rate exposures, we use derivatives primarily to fix the rate on debt based on floating rate indexes and to manage the cost of borrowing obligations. We prohibit the use of derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Further, we have a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivative is designed to hedge, we do not anticipate any material adverse effect on our net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives.
The interest rate swap agreement that we entered into in 2001 expired on June 30, 2008, and we do not currently have any interest rate swap agreements in effect.
In January 2007, we entered into two Canadian call options in conjunction with our agreement to acquire the assets of Sunrise REIT. See "Note 4Acquisitions." We paid an aggregate purchase price of $8.5 million for these contracts, which had an aggregate notional call amount of Cdn $750.0 million at a Cdn $1.18 strike price. These contracts were settled on April 26, 2007, the acquisition date, and we received $33.2 million in cash upon settlement. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized gains related to call option contracts of $24.3 million, which is included as a foreign currency gain on our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Unamortized Fair Value Adjustment
As of December 31, 2009, the unamortized fair value adjustment related to the long-term debt we assumed in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition and various MOB acquisitions was $11.6 million and will be recognized as effective yield adjustments over the remaining term of the instruments. The estimated aggregate amortization of the fair value adjustment related to long-term debt (reduction of interest expense) for each of the next five years follows: 2010  $2.9 million; 2011  $2.9 million; 2012  $2.4 million; 2013  $1.4 million; and 2014  $1.0 million.
Note 9Fair Values of Financial Instruments
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the carrying amounts and fair values of our financial instruments were as follows:
 
Fair value estimates are subjective in nature and depend on a number of important assumptions, including estimates of future cash flows, risks, discount rates and relevant comparable market information associated with each financial instrument. The use of different market assumptions and estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the reported estimated fair value amounts. Accordingly, the estimates presented above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts we would realize in a current market exchange.
At December 31, 2009, we held marketable debt securities, classified as available-for-sale, with an aggregate amortized cost basis and fair value of $60.6 million and $65.0 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, these securities had an aggregate amortized cost basis and fair value of $64.4 million and $51.6 million, respectively. The contractual maturities of our marketable debt securities range from October 1, 2012 to April 15, 2016. We do not intend to sell these securities and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities prior to maturity.
Note 10Stock-Based Compensation
Compensation Plans
We have four plans under which outstanding options to purchase common stock and/or shares or units of restricted stock have been, or may be, granted to officers, employees and non-employee directors, one plan under which executive officers may receive common stock in lieu of compensation and two plans under which certain directors have received or may receive common stock in lieu of director fees (the following are collectively referred to as the "Plans"): (1) the 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan (Employee Plan); (2) the 2004 Stock Plan for Directors; (3) the Common Stock Purchase Plan for Directors (the "Directors Stock Purchase Plan"); (4) the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; (5) the Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan; (6) the 2006 Incentive Plan; and (7) the 2006 Stock Plan for Directors.
During the year ended December 31, 2009, option and restricted stock grants and stock issuances could only be made under the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the Nonemployee Directors' Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the 2006 Incentive Plan and the 2006 Stock Plan for Directors. The 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan (Employee Plan) and the 2004 Stock Plan for Directors expired on December 31, 2006, and no additional grants were permitted under those Plans after that date. In addition, the Directors Stock Purchase Plan terminated in accordance with its terms during 2007.
The number of shares reserved and the number of shares available for future grants or issuance under these Plans as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:
 
 
 
Under the Plans (other than the Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan, the Directors Stock Purchase Plan and the Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan), options are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant, expire ten years from the date of grant, and vest over varying periods ranging from one to five years. Vesting of certain options may accelerate upon a change of control of Ventas, as defined in the applicable Plan, and other events.
Compensation cost for all share-based awards are based on the grant date fair value and are recognized on a straight-line basis as the requisite service periods are rendered. Compensation costs related to stock options for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $2.9 million, $2.3 million and $1.9 million.
Stock Options
In determining the estimated fair value of our stock options as of the date of grant, we used the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:
 
The following is a summary of stock option activity in 2009:
 
A summary of the status of our nonvested stock options as of December 31, 2009 and changes during the year then ended follows:
 
As of December 31, 2009, there was $704,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options granted under the Plans. We expect to recognize that cost over a weighted average period of one year. Proceeds received from options exercised under the Plans for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $2.2 million, $6.2 million and $9.5 million, respectively.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
The market value of shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units on the date of the award is recognized as stock-based compensation expense over the service period, with charges to general and administrative expenses of approximately $9.0 million in 2009, $7.7 million in 2008 and $5.6 million in 2007. Restricted stock and restricted stock units generally vest over two- to five-year periods. The vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units may accelerate upon a change of control of Ventas, as defined in the applicable Plan, and other events.
A summary of the status of our nonvested restricted stock units and restricted stock as of December 31, 2009, and changes during the year ended December 31, 2009 follows:
 
As of December 31, 2009, there was $7.5 million unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock and restricted stock units under the Plans. We expect to recognize that cost over a weighted average of 1.5 years.
Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan
We have in effect an Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") under which our employees and directors may purchase shares of our common stock at a discount. Pursuant to the terms of the ESPP, on each purchase date, participants may purchase shares of common stock at a price not less than 90% of the market price on that date, with respect to the employee tax-favored portion of the plan, and not less than 95% of the market price on that date, with respect to the additional employee and director portion of the plan. We have reserved 2,500,000 shares for issuance under the ESPP. As of December 31, 2009, 31,700 shares had been purchased under the ESPP and 2,468,300 shares were available for future issuance.
Employee Benefit Plan
We maintain a 401(K) plan that allows for eligible employees to defer compensation subject to certain limitations imposed by the Code. We make a contribution for each qualifying employee of up to 3% of his or her salary, subject to limitations, regardless of the employee's individual contribution. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, our contributions were approximately $189,000, $164,000 and $106,000, respectively.
Note 11Income Taxes
We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code commencing with the year ended December 31, 1999. We have elected for certain of our subsidiaries to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRS" or "TRS entities"), which are subject to federal and state income taxes. The TRS entities were created or acquired in connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition. All entities other than the TRS entities are collectively referred to as "the REIT" within this Note 11.
We intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to enable us to qualify as a REIT. Our actual qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet, on a continuing basis, distribution levels, stock ownership, and the various qualification tests. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our tax treatment of distributions per common share was as follows:
 
We believe we have met the annual REIT distribution requirement by payment of at least 90% of our estimated taxable income for 2009, 2008 and 2007. As a result of the TRS entities created and acquired in 2007, the consolidated provision (benefit) for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:
 
The deferred tax benefit for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was reduced by income tax expense of $1.7 million, $1.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively, related to the noncontrolling interest share of net income. For the tax years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Canadian income tax benefit included in the consolidated benefit for income taxes was $2.0 million, $3.3 million and $7.1 million, respectively.
Although the TRS entities did not pay any federal income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2009, federal income tax payments for these TRS entities may increase in future years as we exhaust net operating loss carryforwards and as our senior living operations segment grows. Such increases could be significant.
Income tax expense computed by applying the federal corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is reconciled to the income tax benefit as follows:
 
The REIT made no income tax payments for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Tax payments of $2.1 million related to built-in gains tax were made for the year ended December 31, 2007.
In connection with the Sunrise REIT acquisition, we established a beginning net deferred tax liability of $306.3 million related to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities acquired (primarily property and related assets, net of net operating loss carryforwards).
Each TRS is a tax paying component for purposes of classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards included in the net deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are summarized as follows:
 
Due to the uncertainty of the realization of certain deferred tax assets, we established valuation allowances. The majority of these valuation allowances related to the net operating loss ("NOL") carryforward related to the REIT where there was uncertainty regarding its realization.
The net difference between tax bases and the reported amount of REIT assets and liabilities for federal income tax purposes was approximately $384.7 million and $497.1 million less than the book bases of those assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
We are subject to corporate level taxes for any asset dispositions during the ten-year period immediately after the assets were owned by a C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, through stock acquisition or merger) ("built-in gains tax"). The amount of income potentially subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of (i) the excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of the date it became a REIT asset or (ii) the actual amount of gain.
Some, but not all, future gains could be offset by available NOLs. We had a $23.3 million deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2007 to be utilized for any built-in gains tax related to the disposition of assets owned prior to our REIT election in 1999. The ten-year period in which these assets were subject to built-in gains tax ended on December 31, 2008. Because we did not have any dispositions of these assets through December 31, 2008, we do not expect to pay any amounts related to this contingent liability. Therefore, this contingent liability was no longer required, and $23.3 million was reversed into income during 2008.
Generally, we are subject to audit under the statute of limitations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for the year ended December 31, 2006 and subsequent years and are subject to audit by state taxing authorities for the year ended December 31, 2005 and subsequent years. The potential impact on income tax expense of years open under the statute of limitations for Canadian entities acquired as part of the Sunrise REIT acquisition is not expected to be material.
We have a combined NOL carryforward of $132.5 million at December 31, 2009 related to the TRS entities and an NOL carryforward related to the REIT of $90.4 million. These amounts can be used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if audits of any prior year's return determine that amounts are owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction for dividends paid. The NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2024 with respect to the TRS entities and in 2020 for the REIT.
As a result of the uncertainties relating to the ultimate utilization of existing REIT NOLs, no net deferred tax benefit has been ascribed to REIT NOL carryforwards as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The IRS may challenge our entitlement to these tax attributes during its review of the tax returns for the previous tax years. We believe we are entitled to these tax attributes, but we cannot give any assurances as to the outcome of these matters.
The following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits:
 
Included in the unrecognized tax benefits of $15.0 million at December 31, 2009 was $15.0 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce our annual effective tax rate. We accrued no penalties. Interest of $0.4 million related to the unrecognized tax benefits was accrued during 2009. We expect our unrecognized tax benefits to increase by $2.0 million during 2010.
Note 12Commitments and Contingencies
Assumption of Certain Operating Liabilities and Litigation
As a result of the structure used to acquire the Sunrise REIT properties, we may be subject to various liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of those properties prior to the acquisition. If the liabilities we have assumed are greater than expected, or if there are obligations relating to the Sunrise REIT properties of which we were not aware at the time of completion of the acquisition, such liabilities and/or obligations could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Similarly, we have assumed various liabilities in connection with other past acquisitions, including liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of properties acquired in a merger. If the liabilities we have assumed are greater than expected, or if there are obligations relating to the acquired properties of which we were not aware at the time we completed those acquisitions, such liabilities and/or obligations could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Brookdale Leases
Subject to certain limitations and restrictions, and provided Brookdale has not waived its rights, if during the first six years of the initial term of our Brookdale leases (affecting 21 properties) assumed in connection with the Provident acquisition (i.e., through December 2010) we, either voluntarily or at Brookdale's request, obtain new mortgage debt or refinance existing mortgage debt on property covered by a Brookdale lease, then we may be required to pay Brookdale the net proceeds from any such mortgage debt financing or refinancing. Also, subject to certain limitations and conditions, and provided Brookdale has not waived its rights, Brookdale may request that we obtain new mortgage debt or refinance existing mortgage debt on the property covered by the Brookdale leases, and we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to pursue any such financing or refinancing from the holder of the then existing mortgage debt on the applicable Brookdale property. In connection with any such financing or refinancing, the rent for the applicable Brookdale property will be increased using a recomputed lease basis increased by an amount equal to the net financed proceeds paid to Brookdale plus (with limited exceptions) any fees, penalties, premiums or other costs related to such financing or refinancing. If the monthly debt service on any financed or refinanced proceeds paid to Brookdale exceeds the rent increase attributable to those financed or refinanced proceeds, then Brookdale is required to pay the excess. Under certain circumstances, Brookdale will also be required to pay additional amounts relating to increases in debt service and other costs relating to any such financing or refinancing.
Other
We have certain operating and ground lease obligations that generally require fixed monthly or annual rent payments and may also include escalation clauses and renewal options. These leases have terms that expire during the next 85 years, excluding extension options. Future minimum lease obligations under non-cancelable operating and ground leases as of December 31, 2009 were $2.1 million in 2010, $1.7 million in 2011, $1.8 million in 2012, $1.8 million in 2013, $1.3 million in 2014 and $105.7 million thereafter.
Note 13Earnings Per Share
The following table shows the amounts used in computing basic and diluted earnings per common share:
 
There were 975,500, 940,500 and 222,200 anti-dilutive options outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Note 14Litigation
Legal Proceedings Defended and Indemnified by Third Parties
Kindred, Brookdale Senior Living, Sunrise and our other tenants, operators and managers are parties to certain legal actions and regulatory investigations arising in the normal course of their business. In certain cases, the tenant, operator or manager, as applicable, has agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless against these actions and investigations. However, the resolution of any litigation or investigations, either individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on Kindred's, Brookdale Senior Living's, Sunrise's or such other tenants', operators' and managers' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Litigation Related to the Sunrise REIT Acquisition
On May 3, 2007, we filed a lawsuit against HCP, Inc. ("HCP") in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, entitled, Case No. 07-cv-238-JGH. We asserted claims of tortious interference with contract and tortious interference with prospective business advantage. Our complaint alleged that HCP interfered with our purchase agreement to acquire the assets and liabilities of Sunrise REIT and with the process for unitholder consideration of the purchase agreement. The complaint alleged, among other things, that HCP made certain improper and misleading public statements and/or offers to acquire Sunrise REIT and that HCP's actions caused us to suffer substantial damages, including, among other things, the payment of materially greater consideration to acquire Sunrise REIT resulting from the substantial increase in the purchase price above the original contract price necessary to obtain unitholder approval and increased costs associated with the delay in closing the acquisition, including increased costs to finance the transaction as a result of the delay.
Ventas, Inc. v. HCP, Inc.
HCP brought counterclaims against us alleging misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation by Sunrise REIT related to its sale process, claiming that we were responsible for those actions as successor. HCP sought compensatory and punitive damages. On March 25, 2009, the District Court granted us judgment on the pleadings against all counterclaims brought by HCP and dismissed HCP's counterclaims with prejudice. Thereafter, the District Court confirmed the dismissal of HCP's counterclaims.
On July 16, 2009, the District Court denied HCP's summary judgment motion as to our claim for tortious interference with business expectation, permitting us to present that claim against HCP at trial. The District Court granted HCP's motion for summary judgment as to our claim for tortious interference with contract and dismissed that claim. The District Court also ruled that we could not seek to recover a portion of our alleged damages.
On September 4, 2009, the jury unanimously held that HCP tortiously interfered with our business expectation to acquire Sunrise REIT at the agreed price by employing significantly wrongful means such as fraudulent misrepresentation, deceit and coercion. The jury awarded us $101.6 million in compensatory damages, which is the full amount of damages the District Court permitted us to seek at trial. The District Court entered judgment on the jury's verdict on September 8, 2009.
On November 16, 2009, the District Court affirmed the jury's verdict and denied all of HCP's post-trial motions, including a motion requesting that the District Court overturn the jury's verdict and enter judgment for HCP or, in the alternative, award HCP a new trial. The District Court also denied our motion for approximately $20 million in pre-judgment interest and/or to modify the jury award to increase it by approximately $4 million to reflect the currency rates in effect on September 8, 2009, the date of entry of the judgment.
On November 17, 2009, HCP appealed the District Court's judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (the "Sixth Circuit"). Based on filings by HCP with the Sixth Circuit, in the appeal, HCP is expected to argue that the judgment against it should be vacated and the case remanded for a new trial and/or that judgment should be entered in its favor as a matter of law. We intend to vigorously contest HCP's appeal and seek the confirmation by the Sixth Circuit of both the jury's verdict and the various rulings in our favor in the District Court. However, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of HCP's appeal.
On November 24, 2009, we filed a cross-appeal to the Sixth Circuit. The cross-appeal will be heard and decided in conjunction with HCP's appeal. In addition to maintaining the full benefit of our favorable jury verdict, in our cross-appeal, we intend to assert that we are entitled to substantial monetary relief in addition to the jury verdict, including punitive damages, additional compensatory damages and pre-judgment interest. We intend to vigorously pursue our cross-appeal and to seek additional proceedings in the District Court in which a jury may supplement the current judgment. However, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of our cross-appeal.
On December 11, 2009, HCP posted a $102.8 million letter of credit in our favor to serve as security to stay execution of the jury verdict pending the appellate proceedings.
The briefing process for HCP's appeal and our cross-appeal is expected to commence in March 2010 and conclude in June 2010 and a final decision could be issued by June 2011. However, there can be no assurance about the timing of a decision by the Sixth Circuit.
Other Litigation
We are party to various other lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which may not be insured) arising in the normal course of our business, including without limitation, in connection with the operations of our seniors housing communities managed by Sunrise. It is the opinion of management that, except as set forth in this Note 14, the disposition of these actions, investigations and claims will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect on us. However, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, investigations and claims, and if management's assessment of our liability with respect to these actions, investigations and claims is incorrect, such actions, investigations and claims could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.
Note 15Capital Stock
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, our authorized capital stock consisted of 300,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.25 per share, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.
In April 2009, we filed an automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Commission relating to the sale, from time to time, of an indeterminate amount of debt securities and related guarantees, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The registration statement replaced our previous automatic shelf registration statement, which expired pursuant to the Commission's rules.
In April 2009, we issued and sold 13,062,500 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to the shelf registration statement. We received $312.2 million in aggregate proceeds from the sale, which we used, together with our net proceeds from the sale of our senior notes due 2016, to fund our cash tender offers with respect to the outstanding senior notes, to repay debt and for general corporate purposes.
In 2008, we issued and sold 9,236,083 shares of our common stock in two underwritten public offerings pursuant to our previous shelf registration statement. We received $409.0 million in aggregate proceeds from the sales, which we used to repay indebtedness outstanding under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
Excess Share Provision
In order to preserve our ability to maintain REIT status, our Certificate of Incorporation provides that if a person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 9% of our outstanding common stock or 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of such limit are deemed to be excess shares. These shares are automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors. The trust is entitled to all dividends with respect to the shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the shares.
We have the right to buy the excess shares for a purchase price equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares, or (ii) the market price on the date we buy the shares, and we may defer payment of the purchase price for the excess shares for up to five years. If we do not purchase the excess shares, the trustee of the trust is required to transfer the excess shares at the direction of the Board of Directors. The owner of the excess shares is entitled to receive the lesser of the proceeds from the sale of the excess shares or the original purchase price for such excess shares; any additional amounts are payable to the beneficiary of the trust.
Our Board of Directors is empowered to grant waivers from the excess share provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation.
Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
We have in effect a Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan ("DRIP"), under which existing stockholders may purchase shares of common stock by reinvesting all or a portion of the cash distribution on their shares of our common stock, subject to certain limits. In addition, existing stockholders, as well as new investors, may purchase shares of common stock under the DRIP by making optional cash payments, subject to certain limits. We currently offer a 1% discount on the purchase price of our common stock to shareholders who reinvest their dividends and/or make optional cash purchases through the DRIP. The amount and availability of this discount is at our discretion. The granting of a discount for one month or quarter, as applicable, will not insure the availability or amount of a discount in future periods, and each month or quarter, as applicable, we may lower or eliminate the discount without prior notice. We may also, without prior notice, change our determination as to whether common shares will be purchased by the plan administrator directly from us or in the open market.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
 
Note 16Related Party Transactions
We currently lease eight personal care facilities to Tangram Rehabilitation Network, Inc. ("Tangram"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Res-Care, Inc. ("Res-Care"). The properties are leased pursuant to a master lease agreement which is guaranteed by Res-Care, of which a member of our Board of Directors serves as Chairman of the Board. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Tangram has paid us approximately $980,900, $949,800 and $917,000, respectively, in base rent payments.
Note 17Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
Summarized unaudited consolidated quarterly information for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 is provided below.
 
 
 
 
Note 18Segment Information
As of December 31, 2009, we operated through two reportable business segments: triple-net leased properties and senior living operations. Our triple-net leased properties segment consists of acquiring, financing and owning seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and leasing those properties to healthcare operating companies under "triple-net" or "absolute-net" leases, which require the tenants to pay all property-related expenses. Our senior living operations segment consists of investments in seniors housing communities located in the United States and Canada for which we engage Sunrise to manage the operations.
We acquired the senior living operations segment on April 26, 2007, pursuant to the purchase of the Sunrise REIT properties. With the addition of these properties, we believed segment differentiation would be appropriate based on the different economic and legal structures used to acquire and own those assets. Prior to the acquisition, we operated through one reportable segment  investment in real estate  which included the triple-net leased properties and our MOBs. Our MOB segment consists of leasing space primarily to physicians and other healthcare businesses and engaging third parties to manage those operations. Due to our limited operation of and allocation of capital to the MOBs, we separated them from the triple-net leased properties segment during 2007. However, the MOBs segment is not individually reported and is included in "All Other" because it does not meet necessary quantitative thresholds at the current time.
We evaluate performance of the combined properties in each segment based on net operating income before interest (excluding income from loans and investments), income taxes, depreciation and amortization, rent reset costs, reversal of contingent liability, foreign currency gains/losses, general, administrative and professional fees, merger-related expenses and noncontrolling interest. There are no intersegment sales or transfers.
All other revenues consist primarily of rental income related to the MOBs, income from loans and investments and other miscellaneous income. All other assets consist primarily of MOB assets and corporate assets including cash, restricted cash, deferred financing costs, notes receivable, and miscellaneous accounts receivable.
Summary information by business segment is as follows:
For the year ended December 31, 2009:
 
For the year ended December 31, 2008:
 
For the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
 
 
 
Our portfolio of properties and real estate investments are located in the United States and Canada. Revenues are attributed to an individual country based on the location of each property.
Geographic information regarding our business segments is as follows:
 
 
Note 19Condensed Consolidating Information
We and certain of our direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors") have fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to the senior notes of the Issuers. Ventas Capital Corporation is a wholly owned direct subsidiary of Ventas Realty that was formed to facilitate the offering of the senior notes and has no assets or operations. In addition, Ventas Realty and the Wholly Owned Subsidiary Guarantors have fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, the obligation to pay principal and interest with respect to our convertible notes. In April 2009, ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership ("ETOP"), of which we owned substantially all of the partnership units, was liquidated and dissolved. Accordingly, the financial results of ETOP and its wholly owned subsidiaries are no longer separately reported but are now included among the Subsidiary Guarantors. We have other subsidiaries ("Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries") that are not included among the Guarantors, and such subsidiaries are not obligated with respect to the senior notes or the convertible notes. Contractual and legal restrictions, including those contained in the instruments governing certain Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries' outstanding indebtedness, may under certain circumstances restrict our ability to obtain cash from our Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries for the purpose of meeting our debt service obligations, including our guarantee of payment of principal and interest on the senior notes and our primary obligation to pay principal and interest on the convertible notes. Certain of our real estate assets are also subject to mortgages. The following summarizes our condensed consolidating information as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








