FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20101108081752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously announced, in October 2010, Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas") signed a definitive agreement to acquire substantially all of the real estate assets of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") and certain of its affiliated entities, by way of merger, including 118 private pay seniors housing communities located in markets such as the New York metropolitan area, New England and California. Completion of the transaction is subject to certain conditions. Ventas expects the transaction to occur in the first half of 2011, although there can be no assurance that, or when, the transaction will be completed.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
The audited consolidated financial statements of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Atria as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and incorporated in this Item 9.01(a) by reference.
The audited consolidated financial statements of One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("One Lantern"), an Atria affiliate, as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements of One Lantern as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.3 and 99.4, respectively, and incorporated in this Item 9.01(a) by reference.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of Ventas as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and for the year ended December 31, 2009, giving effect to the Atria transaction, are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.5 and incorporated in this Item 9.01(b) by reference.
(c) Shell Company Transactions.
Not applicable.
(d)
Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 23.1
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-155770, 333-158424, and 333-165737 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-61552, 333-97251, 333-107951, 333-118944, 333-126639, and 333-136175 on Form S-8 of Ventas, Inc. (the Company) of our report dated February 19, 2010 related to the consolidated financial statements of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, appearing in Item 9.01 of this current report on Form 8-K of the Company dated November 8, 2010.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
November 8, 2010

 
Exhibit 23.2
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-155770, 333-158424, and 333-165737 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-61552, 333-97251, 333-107951, 333-118944, 333-126639, and 333-136175 on Form S-8 of Ventas, Inc. (the Company) of our report dated February 26, 2010 related to the consolidated financial statements of One Lantern Senior Living Inc and Subsidiaries as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the adoption of a new accounting pronouncement), appearing in Item 9.01 of this current report on Form 8-K of the Company dated November 8, 2010.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
November 8, 2010

 
Exhibit 99.1
Atria Senior Living
Group, Inc.
Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the
Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and
Independent Auditors' Report
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
To the Board of Directors of
Atria Senior Living Group, Inc.
Louisville, Kentucky
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholder's equity and cash flows for the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
February 19, 2010
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands)
 
 
 
(Continued)
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
(Concluded)
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
 
 
  Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") and subsidiaries (the "Company"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of LF Strategic Realty Investors II L.P., LFSRI II-CADIM Alternative Partnership L.P., and LFSRI II Alternative Partnership L.P. (collectively known as "LFSRI II"), is a national provider of assisted and independent living services for seniors.
Organization
  As of December 31, 2009, the Company owned or operated 95 communities located in 27 states with a total of 11,285 units. Of the 95 communities, 71 are owned by the Company and 24 are operated by the Company pursuant to long-term leases. The Company also managed 31 communities for Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP ("LSHP"), a related investment fund (refer to Note 3 for a discussion of the Master Agreement).
Background
 
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the Company's subsidiaries and all variable interest entities where the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
Basis of Presentation
As discussed in Note 5, the Company has presented certain operations on a discontinued basis.
  The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 810 (previously FASB Interpretation No. 46, , as revised), addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities ("VIE"). A VIE is subject to the consolidation provisions if it cannot support its financial activities without additional subordinated financial support from third parties or its equity investors lack any one of the following characteristics: the ability to make decisions about its activities through voting rights, the obligation to absorb losses of the entity if they occur, or the right to receive residual returns of the entity if they occur. A VIE is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the party that holds the variable interest that is exposed to the majority of the entity's expected losses and/or residual returns. For the purposes of determining a primary beneficiary, all related party interests must be combined with the actual interests of the Company in the VIE.
Variable Interest Entities
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  An Interpretation of ARB No. 51
The Company has a variable interest in Senior Quarters Operating Company ("SQOC"). SQOC is the operator of 14 licensed assisted living facilities located in the state of New York and is 100% owned by an individual that is a director of Atria. SQOC operates the facilities under operating agreements with subsidiaries of the Company. SQOC is a VIE and the Company has consolidated SQOC as it has determined that it is the primary beneficiary. There are no consolidated assets that represent collateral for the VIE at December 31, 2009. The creditors have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. Intercompany amounts and balances have been eliminated.
The Company entered into an agreement with Forest City Daly Home Care Agency LLC ("FCD HCA"), a licensed home care services agency, in August 2007. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company had a variable interest in FCD HCA and was considered its primary beneficiary. The Company consolidated the assets and liabilities of the VIE as of the commencement date through April 2009. In May 2009, the Company purchased the operations and related assets of FCD HCA.
 
 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Use of Estimates
  Revenues are recognized when services are rendered and consist principally of monthly resident fees and fees for other ancillary services. Payments received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue which is included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Residence and service agreements are for a term of one year, cancellable with 30 days notice from either party. Revenues from management contracts are recognized in the period earned in accordance with the terms of the management agreement.
Revenues
Substantially all revenues are derived from private pay sources. Amounts due from residents are stated at net realizable value. The allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $1.9 million and $2.1 million, respectively.
  The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense included in continuing operations was approximately $4.4 million and $3.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Advertising Costs
  Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates their fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company has invested a portion of its cash in money market funds, which are exposed to various risks, including interest rate, credit, and overall market risk. These funds have readily determinable market values. The Company identifies the cash invested in these funds as cash and cash equivalents as the Company has the ability to buy and sell shares at any time. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had approximately $107.1 million and $118.9 million, respectively, invested in prime money market funds.
Restricted Cash  current includes insurance, real estate taxes and repair escrows held by third party lenders that will be disbursed in twelve months or less. Also included are replacement reserves to be released to the Company by third party lenders in the next twelve months as reimbursement for amounts previously expended by the Company for capital items.
Restricted Cash  Current 
  Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation expense is computed by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as follows: buildings (40 years), building and improvements (5-20 years) and furniture and equipment (3-10 years). Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or useful life. Repairs and maintenance expense included in continuing operations was approximately $12.5 million and $11.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Long-Lived Assets
 
 
Property and equipment consist of the following at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
 
Assets held under capital leases are included in the amounts above and consist of the following at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
 
In January 2009, the Company exercised a purchase option for $19.0 million for one community that was previously accounted for as a capital lease. The purchase was financed with $14.9 million of long-term debt.
In January 2008, the Company exercised a purchase option for $18.5 million for one community that was previously accounted for as a capital lease. The purchase price was financed with long-term debt.
The Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360 (previously Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, ). This guidance requires that intangible assets and long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company regularly reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets with respect to any events or circumstances that indicate impairment or that depreciation estimates may require adjustment. If such circumstances suggest the recorded amounts are more than the sum of the undiscounted cash flows, the carrying values of such assets are reduced to fair market value. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value of the assets. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company does not believe that the carrying value or the depreciation periods of its intangible assets and long-lived assets require any material adjustment.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets
 
 
ASC Topic 410 (previously SFAS No. 143, ), addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement cost. This guidance applies to legal obligations related to the retirement of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and/or the normal operation of a long-lived asset, except for certain obligations of leases. The fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation must be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. The liability is discounted and accretion expense is recognized using the credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate in effect when the liability was initially recognized. An entity is required to recognize a liability for a legal obligation to perform asset retirement activities when the retirement is conditional on a future event and if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated. This standard has not had a material effect on the Company's earnings or financial position. The Company is currently evaluating potential investments in its existing properties that could result in significant future capital improvements to certain of the Company's facilities. It is possible that the estimates used by the Company in accounting for its obligations could change in the near term depending on the timing of the projects approved in the future.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
  The Company accounts for business combinations under the purchase method. Accordingly, the aggregate purchase price of business combinations is allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values. Estimates are based on historical, financial, and market information.
Goodwill, Leasehold Interests, and Other Intangibles
The Company's intangible assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, consist of the following (in thousands):
 
The Company has completed its most recent annual goodwill impairment test at December 31, 2009 and has determined that no impairment exists. Goodwill is allocated to the carrying value of each facility and analyzed in connection with our evaluation of permanent impairment based on the relative fair value of the community to the Company as a whole. The fair values used in this evaluation are estimated based upon discounted future cash flow projections for the reporting unit. These cash flow projections are based upon a number of estimates and assumptions such as revenue and expense growth rates, capitalization rates and discount rates.
The amortization period of the leasehold interests includes renewal periods on the underlying leases extending to 2051.
 
 
Other intangibles consist primarily of customer contracts, lease restructuring fees, additional rent charges and deferred lease costs, which are amortized over the life of the assets.
Estimated aggregate amortization expense for intangible assets subject to amortization is approximately $2.5 million for 2010 and $2.1 million for each of the next four years.
  Leases that substantially transfer all of the benefits and risks of ownership of property to the Company, or otherwise meet the criteria for capitalizing a lease in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, are accounted for as capital leases. Property and equipment recorded under capital leases are depreciated on the same basis as other property and equipment. Amortization related to capital leases is included in the consolidated statements of operations within depreciation and amortization expense. Rental payments under operating leases are expensed as incurred.
Leases
  Costs incurred in connection with obtaining financing are deferred and amortized (included in interest expense) over the life of the related long-term debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method. Deferred financing costs are presented net of accumulated amortization of approximately $9.4 million and $7.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Deferred Financing Costs
  Leasehold deposits of approximately $5.1 million and $4.5 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, consist of cash payments made by the Company to certain lessors as required by the Company's operating leases.
Leasehold Deposits
  Long-term restricted cash totaled approximately $10.2 million and $9.6 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which includes funds held for repair and replacement and debt service reserve escrows that are not expected to be disbursed to the Company within twelve months. Also included are money market funds held by RCI Insurance Company, a wholly-owned captive insurance company.
Restricted Cash and Other Non-Current Assets
  The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded to adjust net deferred tax assets to the amount which management believes will more likely than not be recoverable. In making such determination, management considers available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the implementation of prudent tax planning strategies. In the event that the Company is able to utilize its deferred tax assets in excess of their recorded amount, the valuation allowance will be reduced with a corresponding reduction to income tax expense.
Income Taxes
ASC Topic 740 (previously FASB Interpretation No. 48, ) prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions that the Company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. ASC Topic 740 provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the income tax position. Income tax positions must meet a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold to be
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
 
recognized. The Company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2009 and the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009.
  ASC Topic 820 (previously SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements) defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value, and expanded disclosures required for fair value measurements. This guidance also defines a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels. These levels, in order of highest to lowest priority, are described below:
Fair Value Measurements
  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 1
  Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
Level 2
  Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 includes values determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques reflecting the Company's own assumptions.
Level 3
The Company adopted ASC Topic 820 (previously FASB Staff Position FAS 157-2, ) for all non-financial assets and liabilities in 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
The Company also adopted ASC Topic 825 (previously SFAS No. 159, ) as of January 1, 2008, which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. In addition, it also establishes recognition, presentation, and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. The Company has not made any fair value elections with respect to any of its eligible assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2009.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115
  ASC Topic 805 (previously SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), ) provides guidance for the way companies account for business combinations. This guidance requires transaction-related costs to be expensed as incurred, which were previously accounted for as a cost of acquisition. ASC Topic 805 also requires acquirers to estimate the acquisition-date fair value of any contingent consideration and recognize any subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration in earnings. In addition, restructuring costs the acquirer was not obligated to incur shall be recognized separately from the business acquisition. The Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company has a total valuation allowance of $187.4 million as of December 31, 2009, to reduce its deferred tax assets, of which $15.9 million was recognized in purchase accounting to reserve a portion of an acquired entity's deferred tax assets. Deferred tax assets related to acquired entities will affect income tax expense in the period of reversal if they are settled for lesser amounts. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has not reduced the valuation allowance established in connection with the acquisition.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Business Combinations
 
 
ASC Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 160, of ARB No. 51) requires all entities to report noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements. A single method of accounting has been established for changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation. Companies no longer recognize a gain or loss on partial disposals of a subsidiary where control is retained. In addition, in partial acquisitions where control is obtained, the acquiring company will recognize and measure at fair value 100 percent of the assets and liabilities, including goodwill, as if the entire target company had been acquired. The company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, An Amendment
In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 855 (previously SFAS No. 165, ), which provided general accounting standards for the disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued or available for issue. This guidance does not apply to subsequent events of transactions that are within the scope of other generally accepted accounting principles that provide different guidance on the accounting treatment of subsequent events. ASC Topic 855 includes a new required disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that date. Such disclosures are required for financial statements issued after June 15, 2009 and are included in these consolidated financial statements.
Subsequent Events
In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 167, (R)), which amended the consolidation guidance for VIEs. The new guidance requires a company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interest gives it a controlling financial interest in a VIE. The amendment, which requires ongoing reassessments, redefines the primary beneficiary as the party that (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The guidance includes enhanced disclosures about a company's involvement in a VIE and also eliminates the exemption for qualifying special purpose entities. The guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2010. The Company is currently evaluating the impact, if any, on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46
In June 2009, the FASB adopted ASC Topic 105 (previously SFAS No. 168, ), which is effective for periods after September 15, 2009. The ASC became the source of authoritative US Generally Accepted Accounting Principals ("GAAP") applied to nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. All other non-grandfathered non-SEC accounting literature not included in the ASC is considered non-authoritative. The Company adopted the ASC as the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles.
The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162
 
The Company reimbursed LFSRI II for certain professional fees which it paid on the Company's behalf and for travel and out of pocket costs incurred by the general partner of LFSRI II directly related to the activities of the Company. These costs totaled approximately $281,000 and $510,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These expenses are included in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, in 2009, the Company reimbursed LFSRI II $511,000 for certain professional fees related to development activities which have been capitalized and included in property and equipment.
 
 
The Company and Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP ("LSHP"), a real estate opportunity fund formed for the purpose of making debt and equity investments in senior housing assets, are parties to a Master Agreement under which the Company is engaged to provide certain management, operating and loan servicing activities for the investments made by LSHP. A majority of the partner capital interests in LSHP also hold partnership interests in LFSRI II. Under the terms of the Master Agreement, any new facilities acquired by LSHP, which are not already encumbered by an existing third party management agreement, will be added to this arrangement. The Master Agreement has an initial term of ten years (expiring July 2015) with automatic one year renewal periods thereafter, and establishes standardized terms for the facilities for which the Company will be engaged to provide services (the "Facility Management Agreements"). As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company managed 31 and 32 communities, respectively, for One Lantern Senior Living LLC ("OLSL LLC") and SG Senior Living LLC ("SGSL") under the terms of the Facility Management Agreement.
Pursuant to the Facility Management Agreements, during the initial 24 months that a facility is owned, the Company receives a management fee of 5.00% of cash revenue. After this initial period, the Company receives a management fee of 3.00% to 5.00% of cash revenue based on the operating margins of the managed facilities. The Facility Management Agreements require the Company to be reimbursed for the payroll and related costs of on-site employees as well as certain other costs that are incurred by the Company. These reimbursements are in addition to the management fees.
Six communities which are licensed by New York Department of Health ("NYDOH") pay fixed monthly management fees instead of a percentage of cash revenue pursuant to separate management agreements.
During 2009 and 2008, the Company received management fees of approximately $8.8 million and $9.5 million, respectively, under these agreements. Additionally, reimbursements for payroll and related expenses, as well as other expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the communities managed for OLSL LLC and SGSL, totaled approximately $66.6 million and $70.6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the communities managed for OLSL LLC and SGSL owed the Company approximately $11.9 million and $10.9 million, respectively, related to management fees and reimbursable expenses.
During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company received $227,000 and $170,000 in revenue from OLSL LLC, respectively, for residents that were relocated from an OLSL LLC facility to an Atria facility.
 
In May 2009, the Company purchased the operations and related assets and liabilities of FCD HCA for $736,000, which was funded from existing cash balances. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The Company recorded an intangible asset for customer contracts that were in place between the home care agency and residents, which are amortizing over 18 months, the estimated life of the contracts. Tangible assets and other intangible assets were immaterial. The home care services agency has been included in the results of operations for all periods presented as it was previously consolidated as a VIE.
 
Assets qualifying as "held for sale" are required to be recorded at the lower of their carrying value or fair value, less costs to sell, and must be classified separately on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. In addition, operating results and cash flows for communities either sold or held for sale are required to be classified as discontinued operations in the Company's accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows.
 
 
During 2008, four communities were transferred to new operators and the following amounts were segregated from continuing operations and included in discontinued operations, net of tax in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
 
The following assets and liabilities were segregated and included in Assets Held for Sale and Liabilities associated with Assets Held for Sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
 
 
In July 2009, the Company sold two outstanding notes and its .01% interest in a non-consolidated partnership for $2.0 million. The notes were previously reserved due to uncertainty of collection; therefore, the Company recognized a $2.0 million gain from sale which is included in loss on disposition of assets  net in the accompanying financial statements. The Company also ceased management services with the associated low income apartment complex and has no continuing involvement with the property.
 
  In April 2009, the Company amended lease agreements for nine communities. The term and renewal options related to these leases were unchanged. The initial term expires December 2021 with three ten year renewal options. One community has an
Capital Leases and Deferred Financing Obligations
 
additional fourth renewal option for nine years. The modifications to the lease terms included a 2% annual increase in the base rent payment and the elimination of additional rent that was previously tied to the increase in the Consumer Price Index. Additionally, the lease amendments included changes in the various dates at which fixed rate purchase options for the nine communities can be exercised, ranging from January 1, 2012 to January 1, 2017. The amendments did not result in changes to the accounting classification of these leases.
Future minimum lease payments for capital leases and deferred financing obligations, including amounts that would be due under future purchase options as of December 31, 2009, are as follows (in thousands):
 
The fair value of the Company's capital leases and deferred financing obligations has been estimated based on current rates offered for debt with the same remaining maturities and comparable collateralizing assets. Changes in assumptions or methodologies used to make estimates may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2009 the fair value of capital lease and deferred financing obligations approximated $229.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of capital lease and deferred financing obligations approximated fair value.
  The Company leases real estate under cancelable and non-cancelable arrangements that are accounted for as operating leases. Certain of the leases require the payment of additional rent based on a percentage increase of gross revenues. Leases are subject to increases based upon changes in the consumer price index or gross revenues, subject to certain limits, as defined in the individual lease agreements. During 2009 and 2008, such additional rent expense included in continuing operations amounted to approximately $1.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively.
Operating Leases
 
 
Future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases classified in continuing operations as of December 31, 2009, are as follows (in thousands):
 
The Company is subject to various restrictive covenants including certain occupancy requirements for four communities that are leased under operating leases. In order for the properties to qualify as a "qualified residential rental project" in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code (for the underlying bonds to maintain their tax-exempt status), at least 20% of the units must be made available to persons whose adjusted family income is 50% or less of the area median gross income (adjusted for family size). As of December 31, 2009, all of the communities were in compliance with the low-income requirements.
As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $4.7 million in outstanding letters of credit (the "L/Cs") securing lease obligations. The lessors may draw upon the L/Cs if there are defaults under the related leases. The L/Cs expire between April 30, 2010 and September 1, 2010. The L/Cs are secured by certificates of deposit that are included in current restricted cash in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
A summary of long-term debt at December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in thousands):
 
In January 2009, the Company exercised a purchase option for one community. The $19.0 million purchase was financed with a $14.9 million ten-year note with the remainder paid from existing cash balances. Interest and principal on the note are payable monthly at a fixed rate of 6.18% based on a 30-year amortization period.
 
 
In April 2009, a lessor provided the Company with a $35.0 million line of credit. The Company may request draws on the line at any time through December 31, 2011, to fund upgrade expenditures and alterations for eight leased communities. Individual draws bear interest at a rate equal to 10.00%. The line of credit includes interest-only payments and has a term extending through January 4, 2021, with mandatory pre-payments in the event of an early termination of the related leases or in the event of the execution of the related purchase options. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had not drawn any of the available proceeds.
The Company previously obtained a $30.0 million line of credit with the same lessor. The Company can draw on the line at any time through December 31, 2010, to fund upgrade expenditures and alterations for the eight leased communities. The individual draws bear interest at a rate equal to the greater of 8.00% or the current ten year treasury rate plus 3.00%. The line of credit includes interest-only payments and has a term extending through January 2021, with mandatory pre-payments in the event of an early termination of the related leases or in the event of the execution of the related purchase options. The Company may make optional prepayments in 2012, 2013 and 2014 in an amount not to exceed $10.0 million per year. As of December 31, 2009, $12.5 million was outstanding on this line of credit.
In May 2009, the Company refinanced two communities and entered into new mortgage agreements totaling $34.2 million. The mortgage notes mature in June 2019. Interest and principal are payable monthly at a fixed rate of 6.15%. A total of $24.0 million of the proceeds were used to payoff the existing mortgage debt. In conjunction with the payoff, the Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $363,000.
In August 2009, the Company obtained additional financing related to the development of a community located in Irvine, California. The construction loan has a maximum available loan amount of $8.15 million with a maturity date of January 1, 2013. Interest is payable monthly at LIBOR + 6.00%. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had not drawn any of the available proceeds.
In September 2009, the Company obtained additional financing related to the development of a community located in Walnut Creek, California. The construction loan has a maximum available loan amount of $6.6 million with an initial maturity date of October 1, 2012 and a one-year extension option. Interest is payable monthly at LIBOR + 6.00%. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had not drawn any of the available proceeds.
In January 2008, the Company exercised a purchase option for one community. The $18.5 million purchase price was financed through a ten-year fixed rate note. Interest and principal are payable monthly at a fixed rate of 6.00% based on a 25-year amortization period.
In February 2008, the Company refinanced two communities and entered into new mortgage agreements totaling $16.2 million. The mortgage notes mature in March 2018. Interest and principal are payable monthly at fixed rates between 5.90% and 6.30% based on a 30-year amortization period. A total of $6.9 million of the proceeds was used to payoff the existing mortgage debt. In conjunction with the payoff, the Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $70,000 in February 2008.
In February 2008, the Company obtained additional financing related to 25 communities and entered into new mortgage agreements totaling $72.5 million. The underlying mortgage notes mature between January 2013 and April 2016. Interest and principal are payable monthly at fixed rates of 5.30% to 5.90% based on a 30-year amortization period. The proceeds are expected to be used by the Company to fund future capital improvements to the Company's facilities.
 
 
In September 2008, the Company refinanced one community and entered into a new mortgage agreement totaling $10.6 million. The mortgage note matures in October 2018. Interest and principal are payable monthly at a fixed rate of 6.20% based on a 30-year amortization period. A total of $3.5 million of the proceeds was used to payoff the existing mortgage debt. In conjunction with the payoff, the Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $240,000 in September 2008.
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, substantially all of the Company's property and equipment is collateralized under long-term debt and lease arrangements.
Aggregate maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2009, are as follows (in thousands):
 
The fair value of the Company's debt has been estimated based on current rates offered for debt with the same remaining maturities and comparable collateralizing assets. Changes in assumptions or methodologies used to make estimates may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company estimated that the fair value of its long-term debt approximated $832.3 million and $793.5 million, respectively.
The Company's various debt and lease agreements contain financial and other covenants. As of December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants.
 
During 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded income tax benefits related to continuing operations as follows (in thousands):
 
Discontinued operations include a deferred tax benefit of $38,700 in 2009 and $545,000 in 2008.
 
 
A reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective income tax rate for continuing operations is as follows:
 
A summary of the deferred income taxes by source included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in thousands):
 
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $477.9 million and $459.1 million, respectively, which expire in years 2011 through 2029. Approximately $165.9 million of the net operating loss carryforwards existing at December 31, 2009, are attributable to previously acquired entities, and the utilization of these losses is subject to limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code.
At December 31, 2009, the Company has a valuation allowance of approximately $187.4 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In determining the need for and the amount of the valuation allowance, the Company considered the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and the implementation of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Although realization is not assured for the net deferred tax asset, management believes it is more likely than not
 
that they will be utilized based on the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. If future taxable income is less than the amount that has been assumed in determining the deferred tax asset, then an increase in the valuation allowance will be required with a corresponding increase to income tax expense. Alternatively, if future taxable income exceeds the level that has been assumed in calculating the deferred tax asset, the valuation allowance could be reduced with the corresponding reduction to income tax expense. In 2009, the Company increased the valuation allowance by $3.2 million and recognized a corresponding expense. The increase in the valuation allowance was primarily due to a change in the estimated future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Company records interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as income tax expense. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had determined that no uncertain tax positions existed and thus, no interest or penalties were accrued.
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and various state and local jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2009, the Company's tax years for 2005 to 2009 are subject to examination by the tax authorities. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state, or local income tax examinations for years before 2005.
 
A summary of other current assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in thousands):
 
A summary of accrued liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
The Company sponsors a 401(k) plan for employees who meet certain minimum eligibility requirements. Retirement plan expense included in continuing operations was approximately $1.0 million and $1.1 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
ASC Topic 718 (previously SFAS No. 123R, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation), establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees.
In 2006, Atria Holdings LLC ("Holdings"), parent of the Company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of LFSRI II, adopted an Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (the "LLC Agreement"). The primary revision adopted in the LLC Agreement was to create two authorized classes of membership interests in Holdings: Common Units and Participation Units. The holders of Common Units ("Common Members") have rights with respect to the management and operation of Holdings, as well as rights with respect to profits and losses and distributions. The holders of Participation Units ("Participation Members") have no rights with respect to the management and operation of Holdings, but do have rights with respect to profits and losses and distributions.
At the time of a qualifying sale of the Company, as defined in the LLC Agreement, Participation Members will be entitled to distributions based on formulas in the LLC Agreement. Distributions to Participation Members shall, to the extent practicable, be made in the same form of consideration as corresponding distributions to Common Members.
Participation Members' interests in Holdings are subject to certain terms and conditions pursuant to individual admission letters. While the terms and conditions of the individual admission letters vary, in general, the Participation Members must be employed by the Company when a qualifying sale occurs in order to be entitled to a distribution, unless terminated without cause, as defined in the LLC Agreement, prior to distributions, in which case the executive will be entitled to a portion of their interest based on a vesting schedule. The Participation Units vest one-third on December 31 in the year of grant with the remainder vesting on December 31 two years later. A change in control, as defined in the LLC Agreement, will result in 100% accelerated vesting of all Participation Units.
Valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, and changes in assumptions used can materially affect the fair value estimate. Expected volatility and dividends are based on implied and historical factors related to the Company's common stock and public competitors within the assisted-living industry. Expected term represents the estimated weighted-average duration that the Participation Units will be outstanding. Due to the limited number of Participation Members, the Company has assumed that all Participation Units outstanding as of December 31, 2009, will vest and none will be forfeited in determining the grant date fair value of the Participation Units.
 
 
As of December 31, 2009, 82 Participation Units were outstanding that were issued to certain key executives that are employed by the Company. A summary of the Participation Units issued to employees of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
The fair value of each Participation Unit was determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the expected future value of the Company based on financial projections and valuation multiples that are common to the assisted-living industry. Certain additional key assumptions are noted in the following table for the participation units issued in 2008.
 
The Participation Units that are outstanding as of December 31, 2009, include certain performance conditions that must be met in order for the Participation Members to receive a distribution. These performance conditions include a change of control or sale of the Company. Accruals of compensation expense for an award with a performance condition are to be accrued only if it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. The performance conditions associated with the Participation Units were not met or deemed probable as of December 31, 2009, and thus no expense has been recorded in the accompanying financial statements. If the performance conditions are met or deemed to be met in a future period the Company would be required to record additional expense totaling $7.9 million based on the Participation Units outstanding as of December 31, 2009.
 
RCI Insurance Company ("RCI") is a wholly-owned captive insurance company domiciled in South Carolina and is consolidated in the accompanying financial statements. RCI insures general and professional liability risks of the Company in excess of a $100,000 deductible that is retained by the Company. RCI insures claims up to $1.0 million per claim, above the deductible, and $3.0 million in the aggregate. Funding for RCI is based upon actuarial evaluations of claims and industry trends.
Even though the Company funds certain amounts to RCI to pay potential claims, the Company retains various levels of professional and general liability risks. The financial statements include estimates of the ultimate costs for both reported and incurred but not reported claims. The Company has also purchased separate umbrella coverage to cover risk exposures in excess of RCI limits.
 
 
Currently, claims against the Company are in various stages of adjudication and/or litigation, some of which may result in payment from RCI. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of claims incurred to date should not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operations of the Company.
The Company is primarily self-insured for worker's compensation and employee medical costs. Estimated costs and liabilities associated with these self-insurance programs are determined using actuarial models based on the Company's claim history and estimates of ultimate losses.
 
The Company is subject to claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that any liability resulting from these matters, after taking into consideration its insurance coverages and amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
The Company has made certain guarantees to third parties, particularly related to communities that have been sold. These guarantees may survive the expiration of the term of the agreement or extend into perpetuity (unless subject to a legal statute of limitations). There are no specific limitations on the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees, as the triggering events are not subject to predictability. The Company believes the likelihood of any losses resulting from these guarantees, including the affect of insurance coverages that would mitigate any potential payments, is remote, and historically the Company has not been required to make payments under these guarantees.
 
The Company's financial statements are available for issue as of February 19, 2010. Any subsequent events have been evaluated through this date.
In February 2010, the Company refinanced one community and entered into a new mortgage agreement totaling $15.0 million. An initial advance of $8.5 million was used to pay off existing mortgage debt on the community. The remainder of the proceeds totaling $6.5 million is available at future dates and will partially be used to fund a $3.0 million development project at the community. The mortgage note matures in 2015. Interest and principal are payable monthly at LIBOR plus 5.80% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.50%), based on a 25 year amortization schedule.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Atria Senior Living
Group, Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of
and for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010
and 2009 (unaudited)
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands)
 
 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND DECEMBER 31, 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 (unaudited)
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands)
 
 
 
(Continued)
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF AND FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
 
 
  Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") and subsidiaries (the "Company"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of LF Strategic Realty Investors II L.P., LFSRI II-CADIM Alternative Partnership L.P., and LFSRI II Alternative Partnership L.P. (collectively known as "LFSRI II"), is a national provider of assisted and independent living services for seniors.
Organization
  As of September 30, 2010, the Company owned or operated 95 communities located in 27 states with a total of 11,294 units. Of the 95 communities, 71 are owned by the Company and 24 are operated by the Company pursuant to long-term leases. The company also managed 31 communities for Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP, a related investment fund.
Background
 
  The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the Company's subsidiaries and all variable interest entities where the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
Basis of Presentation
In the opinion of management, these financial statements include all adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company as of September 30, 2010, and for all periods presented. Those adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted. The Company believes that the disclosures included are adequate and provide a fair presentation of interim period results. Interim financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the financial position or operating results for an entire year. It is suggested that these interim financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the notes thereto for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.
  In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 167, (R)), which amended the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities ("VIE"). The new guidance requires a company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interest gives it a controlling financial interest in a VIE. The amendment, which requires ongoing reassessments, redefines the primary beneficiary as the party that (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The guidance includes enhanced disclosures about a company's involvement in a VIE and also eliminates the exemption for qualifying special purpose entities. The Company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2010. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46
 
 
In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 820, , which requires additional disclosures to recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. A reporting entity is to disclose significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2, and describe the reason for those transfers. Additionally, an entity is to present separately, on a gross basis, information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements pertaining to the activity in Level 3. The guidance also clarifies the level of disaggregation and disclosures about input and valuation techniques used to determine Level 2 and Level 3 measurements. The ASC Topic 820 update is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009 (except for the requirement to separately disclose purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements, which becomes effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2010). The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
Improving Disclosure about Fair Value Measurements
 
In February 2010, the Company refinanced one community and entered into a new mortgage agreement totaling $15.0 million. An initial advance of $8.5 million was used to pay off existing mortgage debt on the community with the remainder of the proceeds available at future dates. The mortgage note matures in 2015. Interest and principal are payable monthly at LIBOR plus 5.80% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.50%), based on a 25 year amortization schedule.
 
The Company's effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 reflected an income tax benefit of 28.5% and 19.3%, respectively. The Company has a valuation allowance reducing its deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The difference between the Company's effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate is primarily due to increases in the valuation allowance.
 
The Company is subject to claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that any liability resulting from these matters, after taking into consideration its insurance coverages and amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
The Company has made certain guarantees to third parties, particularly related to communities that have been sold. These guarantees may survive the expiration of the term of the agreement or extend into perpetuity (unless subject to a legal statute of limitations). There are no specific limitations on the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees, as the triggering events are not subject to predictability. The Company believes the likelihood of any losses resulting from these guarantees, including the effect of insurance coverages that would mitigate any potential payments, is remote, and historically the Company has not been required to make payments under these guarantees.
 
The Company's financial statements are available for issue as of October 28, 2010. Any subsequent events have been evaluated through this date.
On October 21, 2010, the Company announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to merge its real estate with Ventas, Inc., a healthcare real estate investment trust. As part of this transaction, Ventas will acquire the majority of the Company's senior living communities. Subject to certain approvals, the transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2011.
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
One Lantern Senior
Living Inc and
Subsidiaries
Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the
Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and
Independent Auditors' Report
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
To the Board of Directors
One Lantern Senior Living Inc
Louisville, Kentucky
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of One Lantern Senior Living Inc and subsidiaries (the "Company"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, equity, and cash flows for the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2009 the Company changed its method of reporting noncontrolling interest due to the adoption of new accounting requirements.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
February 26, 2010
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands)
 
 
 
(Continued)
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
(In thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AND 2008
 
 
  One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("OLSL INC") and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a wholly owned subsidiary of Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP ("LSHP"), a real estate opportunity fund formed for the purpose of making debt and/or equity investments in senior housing assets located in the United States.
Organization
  As of December 31, 2009, the Company owned, operated, or managed 31 communities located in the Northeastern United States with a total of 3,175 units. Of the 31 communities, 16 were owned by the Company, 11 were operated by the Company pursuant to lease agreements, and two were managed by the Company on behalf of third parties. The Company also manages two communities in which it has a partial equity interest.
Background
On March 1, 2007, the Company established SG Senior Living LLC ("SGSL LLC"). The Company owns a 72.09% interest in SGSL LLC as the managing member and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP ("Coinvestment Partnership") indirectly holds the remaining 27.91% membership interest. As of December 31, 2009, SGSL LLC owned and operated 12 properties.
  LSHP, Coinvestment Partnership, and Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") are parties to a Master Agreement under which LSHP engaged Atria to provide certain management, operating and loan servicing activities for the investments made by LSHP. A majority of the partner capital interests in LSHP and Coinvestment Partnership also hold partnership interests in certain of the real estate opportunity funds that indirectly hold interests in Atria. Under the terms of the Master Agreement, any new facilities acquired by LSHP, which are not already encumbered by an existing third party management agreement, will be added to this arrangement. The Master Agreement has an initial term of 10 years (expiring July 2015) with automatic one year renewal periods thereafter, and establishes standardized terms for the facilities which Atria is engaged to provide services (the "Facility Management Agreements").
Related Party Management Agreements
As defined in the Facility Management Agreements, during the initial 24 months that a facility is owned, Atria receives a management fee of 5% of cash revenue. After this initial period, Atria receives a management fee of 3% to 5% of cash revenue based on the operating margins of the facilities. The Facility Management Agreements also require the Company to reimburse Atria for the payroll and related costs of on-site employees as well as certain other costs that are incurred by Atria. These reimbursements are in addition to the management fees and are shown as managed facility reimbursed expenses on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Six communities which are licensed by the New York Department of Health ("NYDOH") pay fixed monthly management fees instead of a percentage of cash revenue pursuant to separate management agreements.
 
 
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the Company's majority-owned subsidiaries and all variable interest entities where the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated. Investments in entities not controlled by ownership or contractual obligations are accounted for under the equity method.
Basis of Presentation
As discussed in Note 5, the Company has presented certain operations on a discontinued basis.
  The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 810 (previously FASB Interpretation No. 46, 51, as revised), addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities ("VIE"). A VIE is subject to the consolidation provisions if it cannot support its financial activities without additional subordinated financial support from third parties or its equity investors lack any one of the following characteristics: the ability to make decisions about its activities through voting rights, the obligation to absorb losses of the entity if they occur, or the right to receive residual returns of the entity if they occur. A VIE is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the party that holds the variable interest that is exposed to the majority of the entity's expected losses and/or residual returns. For the purposes of determining a primary beneficiary, all related party interests must be combined with the actual interests of the Company in the VIE.
Variable Interest Entities
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  An Interpretation of ARB No. 
The Company owns a 1% general partner interest in Marland Place Associates LP ("Marland Place") that meets the definition of a VIE. Marland Place owns one assisted living facility. The Company has determined that it is the primary beneficiary of this VIE and has consolidated the VIE as part of these financial statements. The only consolidated asset that represents collateral for the VIE is the building, with a net book value of $15.5 million and $15.8 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The creditors have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. Intercompany amounts and balances have been eliminated.
In 2008 and for a portion of 2009, the Company had a variable interest in five legal entities that operated five of its communities. These operators were licensed by the NYDOH and were owned by individuals that were not associated with the Company or related entities. The operators operated these facilities under long-term leases with subsidiaries of the Company. The operators were VIEs and the Company consolidated the VIEs as it was the primary beneficiary. The operating agreements with four of these operators were terminated on August 31, 2009 and one was terminated on September 30, 2009. These VIEs were no longer consolidated as of the respective termination dates. There were no consolidated assets that represented collateral for the VIEs and the creditors had no recourse to the general credit of the Company. All intercompany amounts and balances have been eliminated.
Upon the termination of the operating agreements referenced above, OLSL New York Operating Company LLC ("OLSL NYOC") became the operator of these communities. OLSL NYOC is also the operator for one additional community. OLSL NYOC is 100% owned by an individual that is a director of both the Company and Atria. These facilities are operated under long-term lease agreements with subsidiaries of the Company. OLSL NYOC is considered a VIE and the Company has consolidated the operations of these six communities as it has determined that it is the primary beneficiary. There are no consolidated assets that represent collateral for OLSL NYOC as of December 31, 2009 and the creditors have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. All intercompany amounts and balances have been eliminated.
 
 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Use of Estimates
  Revenues are recognized when services are rendered and consist principally of monthly resident fees and fees for other ancillary services. Payments received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue, which is included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Residence and service agreements are for a term of one year, cancellable with 30 to 60 day notice from either party. Revenues from management contracts are recognized in the period earned in accordance with the terms of the management agreement.
Revenues
Substantially all revenues are derived from private pay sources. Amounts due from residents are stated at net realizable value. The allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $690,000 and $650,000, respectively.
  The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense included in assisted and independent living operating expenses and managed facility reimbursed expenses was approximately $1.8 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Advertising Costs
  The Company has management agreements with two properties in which it has a partial equity interest and two managed communities. Under these agreements, the Company receives a base management fee ranging from 3% to 4% of cash revenue, plus additional incentive fees for three of the properties based on the operating margins of the individual facilities. These revenues are recorded as management fees on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Management fees related to one consolidated community (Marland Place) have been eliminated in consolidation.
Third-Party and Affiliate Management Agreements
The Company sub-contracts the majority of its responsibilities under these agreements to Atria under the terms of the Facility Management Agreements.
  Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates their fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
    Restricted cash - current includes insurance, real estate taxes, interest, and repair escrows held by third party lenders that will be disbursed in twelve months or less. Also included are replacement reserves to be released to the Company by third party lenders in the next twelve months as reimbursement for amounts previously expended by the Company for capital items.
Restricted Cash
Current
  The Company accounts for business combinations under the purchase method. Accordingly, the aggregate purchase price of business combinations is allocated to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values. Estimates are based upon historical, financial, and market information.
Accounting for Acquisitions and Intangibles
 
 
Intangible assets consist of the following at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
 
Value of in-place leases are amortized on a straight-line basis over two years based on the estimated average resident stay at the facilities. In 2009, the Company wrote-off the balance of fully amortized in-place leases in the amount of approximately $24.3 million and related accumulated amortization.
The Company is also party to certain property tax abatement agreements that allow the Company to pay reduced property taxes on certain facilities. All property tax abatement agreements are amortized from the date of acquisition until the fiscal year in which real property taxes will be assessed at 100%.
Amortization expense for intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $9.3 million and $13.7 million, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is $1.5 million in 2010, $1.4 million in 2011, $1.2 million in 2012, $0.8 million in 2013 and $0.6 million in 2014.
  Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation expense is computed by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as follows: buildings (40 years), building and improvements (5-20 years), and furniture and equipment (3-10 years). Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or useful life. Repairs and maintenance expense included in assisted and independent living operating expenses was approximately $4.2 million and $4.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Long-lived Assets
Property and equipment consists of the following at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
 
 
 
Assets held under capital leases are included in the amounts above and consist of the following at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
 
In January 2009, the Company purchased a community for $70.0 million which was previously accounted for as a capital lease. This property and the related obligation were originally recorded at approximately $95.0 million, which represented the amount originally due under put and call options. An adjustment was made as of December 31, 2008 to reduce the capital lease obligation and property and equipment by $25.0 million to reflect the reduction in purchase price.
In September 2009, the Company purchased two communities for $53.5 million which were previously accounted for as capital leases. The properties and the related obligations were originally recorded at $84.0 million, which represented the amount originally due under put and call options. A $30.5 million adjustment was made to capital lease obligations and property and equipment to reflect the reduction in purchase price.
The Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360 (previously Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, ). This guidance requires that intangible assets and long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company regularly reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets with respect to any events or circumstances that indicate impairment or that depreciation estimates may require adjustment. If such circumstances suggest the recorded amounts are more than the sum of the undiscounted cash flows, the carrying values of such assets are reduced to fair market value. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value of the assets. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company does not believe that the carrying value or the depreciation periods of its intangible assets and long-lived assets require any material adjustment.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets
ASC Topic 410 (previously SFAS No. 143, ), addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement cost. This guidance applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and/or the normal operation of a long-lived asset, except for certain obligations of leases. The fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation must be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. The liability is discounted and accretion expense is recognized using the credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate in effect when the liability was initially recognized. An entity is required to recognize a liability for a legal obligation to perform asset retirement activities when the retirement is conditional on a future event and if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated. This standard has not had a material effect on the Company's earnings or financial
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
position. The Company is currently evaluating potential investments in its existing properties that could result in significant future capital improvements to certain of the Company's facilities. It is possible that the estimates used by the Company in accounting for its obligations could change in the near term depending on the timing of the projects approved in the future.
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, substantially all of the Company's property and equipment is collateralized under long-term debt and lease arrangements.
  The Company has a 23.25% investment in Broadway/Browne, LLC which holds a .01% general partner interest in Maplewood Place Associates, LP ("Maplewood Place"), which owns a single assisted living facility. Broadway/Browne, LLC has no other significant assets or operations and is accounted for on the equity basis of accounting. This investment is included in investment in joint venture on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Investments
  Leases that substantially transfer all of the benefits and risks of ownership of property to the Company, or otherwise meet the criteria for capitalizing a lease in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, are accounted for as capital leases. Property and equipment recorded under capital leases are depreciated on the same basis as other property and equipment. Amortization related to capital leases is included in the consolidated statements of operations within depreciation and amortization expense. Rental payments under operating leases are expensed as incurred.
Leases
  Costs incurred in connection with obtaining financing are deferred and amortized (included in interest expense) over the life of the related long-term debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method. Deferred financing costs are presented net of accumulated amortization of approximately $1.7 million and $2.2 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Deferred Financing Costs
 Leasehold deposits of approximately $0.1 million and $2.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, consist of cash payments made by the Company under its lease arrangements.
Leasehold Deposits 
  Long-term restricted cash totaled $18.5 million and $11.5 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which includes funds held for interest reserves, operating expense reserves, debt service reserves, and repair and replacement reserve escrows that are not expected to be disbursed to the Company within twelve months. Also included are money market funds held by Charles Channel Indemnity Inc. ("CCI"), a wholly owned captive insurance company, and Mystic River Insurance Inc, a majority-owned captive insurance company. Other non-current assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were composed primarily of $11.8 million and $7.6 million, respectively, of security and other deposits, and $9.0 million and $7.1 million, respectively, related to the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
Restricted Cash and Other Non-Current Assets
  The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded to adjust net deferred tax assets to the amount which management believes will more likely than not be recoverable. In making such determination, management considers available positive and negative evidence,
Income Taxes
 
including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the implementation of prudent tax planning strategies. In the event that the Company is able to utilize its deferred tax assets in excess of their recorded amount, the valuation allowance will be reduced with a corresponding reduction to income tax expense.
ASC Topic 740 (previously FASB Interpretation No. 48, ) prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions that the Company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. ASC Topic 740 provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the income tax position. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized. The Company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2009 and the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
  The Company accounts for derivatives according to ASC Topic 815 (previously SFAS No. 133, ), which requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and to measure those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative are recorded each period in current earnings or in other comprehensive income depending on the intended use of the derivative and the Company's designation of the instrument.
Derivative Financial Instruments
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
The Company's derivative financial instruments include interest rate swaps and interest rate caps which are not used for trading or speculative purposes. These derivatives were not designated as having a hedging relationship with their underlying securities and therefore the Company did not qualify for hedge accounting for book accounting purposes. The Company's interest rate swaps and interest rate caps are recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Changes in fair value are recorded in current earnings as separately stated in the accompanying statements of operations.
  ASC Topic 820 (previously SFAS No. 157, ) defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures required for fair value measurements. This guidance defines a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels. These levels, in order of highest to lowest priority, are described below:
Fair Value Measurements
Fair Value Measurements
  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 1
  Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
Level 2
  Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 includes values determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques reflecting the Company's own assumptions.
Level 3
 
 
The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair value disclosures for financial instruments:
  The fair value is determined with the assistance of a third party using forward yield curves and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving comparable instruments.
Interest Rate Caps
  The fair value is derived using hypothetical market transactions involving comparable instruments as well as alternative financing rates derived from market based financing rates, forward yield curves, discount rates, and the Company's own credit risk.
Interest Rate Swaps
The Company adopted ASC Topic 820 (previously FASB Staff Position FAS 157-2, ) for all non-financial assets and liabilities in 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
The Company also adopted ASC Topic 825 (previously SFAS No. 159,   ), as of January 1, 2008, which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. In addition, it also establishes recognition, presentation, and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. The Company has not made any fair value elections with respect to any of its eligible assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2009 or 2008.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Including An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115
 ASC Topic 805 (previously SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations) provides guidance for the way companies account for business combinations. This guidance requires transaction-related costs to be expensed as incurred, which were previously accounted for as a cost of acquisition. ASC Topic 805 also requires acquirers to estimate the acquisition-date fair value of any contingent consideration and to recognize any subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration in earnings. In addition, restructuring costs the acquirer was not obligated to incur shall be recognized separately from the business acquisition. The Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
ASC Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statement  an Amendment of ARB No. 51) requires all entities to report noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements. A single method of accounting has been established for changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that does not result in deconsolidation. Companies will no longer recognize a gain or loss on partial disposals of a subsidiary where control is retained. In addition, in partial acquisitions, where control is obtained, the acquiring company will recognize and measure at fair value 100% of the assets and liabilities, including goodwill, as if the entire target company had been acquired. The Company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2009, and this guidance has been applied retrospectively for presentation and disclosure requirements. The Company has reported noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries as a separate component of equity and has adjusted net income for the comparative periods presented to include the amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests.
In March 2008, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 815 (previously SFAS No. 161, ), which amended and expanded the disclosure requirements of derivative instruments and hedging activities with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of: 1) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; 2) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for and 3) how derivative instruments and related hedged items
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133
 
affect an entity's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. To meet those objectives, the guidance requires qualitative disclosures about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of gains and losses on derivative instruments, and disclosures about credit-risk related contingent features in derivative agreements. Such disclosures are required for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 and are included in these consolidated financial statements.
In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 855 (previously SFAS No. 165, ), which provided general accounting standards for the disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued or available for issue. This guidance does not apply to subsequent events of transactions that are within the scope of other generally accepted accounting principles that provide different guidance on the accounting treatment of subsequent events. ASC Topic 855 includes a new required disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that date. Such disclosures are required for financial statements issued after June 15, 2009 and are included in these consolidated financial statements.
Subsequent Events
In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 167, ), which amended the consolidation guidance for VIEs. The new guidance requires a company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interest gives it a controlling financial interest in a VIE. The amendment, which requires ongoing reassessments, redefines the primary beneficiary as the party that (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The guidance includes enhanced disclosures about a company's involvement in a VIE and eliminates the exemption for qualifying special purpose entities. The guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2010. The Company is currently evaluating the impact, if any, on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)
In June 2009, the FASB adopted ASC Topic 105 (previously SFAS No. 168, ), which is effective for periods after September 15, 2009. The ASC became the source of authoritative US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") applied to nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. All other non-grandfathered non-SEC accounting literature not included in the ASC is considered non-authoritative. The Company adopted the ASC as the single source of authoritative nongovernmental generally accepted accounting principles.
The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162
 
 
In May 2008, the Company purchased one community for $39.0 million that was previously operated pursuant to an operating lease agreement. The Company financed $27.7 million of the purchase price through the assumption of existing financing with the remainder provided by the contribution of additional capital. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The table below summarizes the Company's purchase price allocation and the impact of the acquisition on the Company's consolidated balance sheet (in thousands):
 
In June 2008, the Company purchased one community located in Ossining, New York with the intent to redevelop the facility. The community was acquired for approximately $17.4 million and had previously been operated by the Company under a lease agreement that was accounted for as a capital lease. The purchase price was financed with long-term debt. The redevelopment required a multi-year closure of the community and the relocation of all current residents. As a result of the redevelopment plans, the Company recorded a loss in the amount of $13.1 million during 2008 which is included in loss on asset related to building reconstruction on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Demolition expenses, resident relocation expenses and other closure costs for 2009 and 2008 were included in development expenses on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
The Company has various agreements with related parties. As described in Note 1, each of the Company's properties is managed by Atria pursuant to individual Facility Management Agreements. During 2009 and 2008, the Company incurred management fee expenses of $8.3 million and $8.9 million, respectively, payable to Atria under these agreements. Additionally, reimbursements to Atria for payroll and related expenses, as well as other expenses incurred by Atria on behalf of the Company, totaled $59.3 million and $60.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company owed Atria $7.5 million and $4.9 million, respectively, related to the management fees and reimbursable expenses. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, Atria and the communities managed by the Company owed the Company $0.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively.
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, Atria charged the Company $227,000 and $170,000, respectively, for residents that were relocated from one of the Company's facilities to an Atria facility.
 
Assets qualifying as "held for sale" are required to be recorded at the lower of their carrying value or fair value, less costs to sell, and must be classified separately on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. In addition, operating results and cash flows for communities either sold or held for sale are required to be classified as discontinued operations in the Company's accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows.
 
 
In January 2009, the Company cancelled the lease on one property and transferred ownership of the operations back to the lessor and the following amounts were segregated from continuing operations and included in discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
 
The following assets and liabilities were segregated and included in assets held for sale and liabilities associated with assets held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008 (in thousands):
 
 
  As of December 31, 2009, the Company operated 11 communities pursuant to lease arrangements that were accounted for as capital leases. One of the leases requires the payment of additional rent based on a percentage increase of gross revenues. Leases are subject to increase based upon changes in consumer price index or gross revenues, subject to certain limits, as defined in the individual lease agreements. The capital lease agreements contain bargain purchase options to purchase the leased property and the option to exercise renewal terms.
Capital Leases
 
 
Future minimum lease payments required under the capital lease agreements, including amounts that would be due under purchase options as of December 31, 2009, are as follows (in thousands):
 
The Company has a lease agreement which allows the Company to purchase eight of its communities. The option price is the greater of the landlord's investment amount of $82.4 million or the sum of the landlord's investment amount plus 34% of the difference between the fair market value at the time the option is exercised and the landlord's investment amount. This option is exercisable at the end of the initial or renewal terms and is first exercisable in 2019.
As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a lease agreement which allowed the Company to exercise purchase options for two of its communities. The purchase prices were based on the landlord's investment amounts plus increases in the consumer price index occurring after the landlord's investment. As of December 31, 2009, the Company also had another lease with the same landlord that contained a purchase option with the purchase price of the property equal to the fair market value minus 50% of the amount by which such fair market value exceeds $5.0 million.
In 2008 and a portion of 2009, the Company operated four properties pursuant to non-renewable five to ten year lease agreements that were accounted for as capital leases. Three of these properties were purchased during 2009 and one lease was cancelled in 2009.
The fair value of the Company's capital leases has been estimated based on current rates offered for debt with the same remaining maturities and comparable collateralizing assets. Changes in assumptions or methodologies used to make estimates may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company estimated that the fair value of its capital lease obligations approximated $151.5 million and $304.6 million, respectively.
 
 
  The Company owns one property that is subject to a 99 year ground lease. Future minimum lease payments required under this operating lease agreement as of December 31, 2009, are as follows (in thousands):
Operating Leases
 
As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $3.8 million in outstanding letters of credit (the "L/Cs") securing lease obligations. The lessors may draw upon the L/Cs if there are defaults under the related leases. The L/Cs expire between September and November 2010. One L/C is secured by a certificate of deposit that is included in restricted cash and other non-current assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets; the second L/C is secured by a restricted cash depository account at the issuing bank.
 
A summary of long-term debt and bonds payable at December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
In January 2009, the Company purchased one facility for $70.0 million which was previously accounted for as a capital lease. The purchase was primarily financed through the assumption of $47.0 million of existing financing and a $22.8 million capital contribution. The Company paid off the $47.0 million loan in September 2009 by refinancing the existing debt with a $46.8 million loan bearing 6.23% fixed interest with a 10 year maturity. The Company recognized an $11,400 loss on debt extinguishment.
In September 2009, the Company purchased two communities that were previously accounted for as capital leases. As part of these purchases, the Company assumed bonds payable totaling $12.9 million and bearing interest at 8.25%. The bonds mature in October 2026 with principal payable annually beginning in September 2011. The Company also assumed $37.7 million of mortgage notes payable bearing interest at 6.52%. The mortgage note matures in August 2017.
In September 2009, the Company modified two of its loan agreements. A $17.5 million loan with an original maturity of August 2009 was extended until February 2013. As part of the modification, the Company made a principal payment of $5.0 million on the loan. Interest is payable monthly at LIBOR plus 2.70% with principal payable at maturity. Additionally, a $52.4 million mezzanine loan with an original maturity of August 2009 was extended until February 2013. As part of the modification, the Company made a principal payment of $37.5 million on the loan. Interest is payable monthly at LIBOR plus 3.95% with periodic principal payments beginning in February 2011. The amendment was not considered a substantial modification in accordance with ASC Topic 470.
In February 2008, the Company obtained additional financing related to one community and entered into a new mortgage agreement totaling $5.6 million. The underlying mortgage note matures in December 2015. Interest and principal are payable monthly at a fixed rate of 5.80% based on a 30-year amortization period. The proceeds were used by the Company to pay down existing indebtedness.
In April 2008, the Company converted bonds payable for one community from a weekly variable to a fixed interest rate. The bonds total $16.0 million and interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 7.00%. The entire principal balance is due at maturity in December 2029.
In May 2008, the Company purchased one community that was previously accounted for as an operating lease and assumed bonds totaling $27.7 million. A portion of the bonds mature in October 2043 with interest payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.50%. The remaining bonds mature in October 2045 with interest payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.00%. Principal is payable annually beginning in October 2012 until maturity.
In June 2008, the Company obtained additional financing related to the purchase and redevelopment of one community located in Ossining, New York that was previously operated by the Company under a lease agreement that was accounted for as a capital lease. The new mortgage loan agreement has a maximum available loan amount of $40.0 million and expires in June 2013. The outstanding balance as of December 31, 2009 is $21.5 million. Interest is payable monthly at the greater of LIBOR + 4.00% or 7.50% with principal payable at maturity in 2013. The loan contains a rising rate interest provision which will result in increased interest payments over the term of the loan. This additional interest is accrued over the contractual term of the loan which is recorded in other long-term liabilities on the accompanying balance sheets and recorded in interest expense on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
In June 2008, the Company obtained additional financing to be used for community renovations, the exercise of certain community purchase options, the payoff of existing debt, and working capital up to $10.0 million. The new mortgage loan agreement has a maximum available loan amount of $70.0 million and expires in June 2011. The outstanding balance as of December 31, 2009 is
 
$70.0 million. In 2009 and 2008, $24.3 and $29.9 million of the proceeds were used to payoff existing mortgage debt, respectively. Interest is payable monthly at the greater of USTN + 4.75% or 8.50% with principal payable at maturity in 2011. The loan contains rising rate and contingent interest provisions which are expected to result in additional interest payments over the term of the loan. This additional interest is accrued over the contractual term of the loan which is recorded in other long-term liabilities on the accompanying balance sheets and recorded in interest expense on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
The construction of five of the Company's properties was financed through the issuance of Industrial Development Revenue Bonds. The Company has recorded obligations on the accompanying balance sheets for outstanding bond issues (the "Bonds Payable") as it is the primary obligor and has guaranteed the payments of these bonds. Interest on Bonds Payable is payable either quarterly or semiannually.
Under the debt and bond agreements, the Company is subject to various restrictive covenants including certain occupancy requirements. In order for the properties to qualify as a "qualified residential rental projects" in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code (for the Bonds to maintain their tax-exempt status), at least 20% of the units must be made available to persons whose adjusted family income is 50% or less of the area median gross income (adjusted for family size). As of December 31, 2009, all of the communities were in compliance with the low-income requirements.
Aggregate maturities of long-term debt (inclusive of extension options) and bonds payable as of December 31, 2009, are as follows (in thousands):
 
The fair value of the Company's debt has been estimated based on current rates offered for debt with the same remaining maturities and comparable collateralizing assets. Changes in assumptions or methodologies used to make estimates may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company estimated that the fair value of its long-term debt and bonds payable approximated $487.6 million and $411.1 million, respectively.
Collateral for the mezzanine notes payable includes the OLSL LLC membership interests of the majority of SGSL LLC's subsidiaries which encompasses substantially all of the operations of SGSL LLC.
 
The Company and Goldman Sachs Capital Markets, L.P. are parties to multiple total return interest rate swap agreements which effectively convert fixed rate Bonds Payable to variable rate obligations. Prior to September 2009, the swaps were scheduled to mature in 2011 and included interest payments based on a weighted average SIFMA Municipal Swap Index plus a 1.50% spread per annum.
 
 
In September 2009, the Company extended the existing total return interest rate swap agreements and entered into one additional swap agreement. The swaps are scheduled to mature in February 2013 and the interest rate was increased to SIFMA Municipal Swap Index plus a 2.50% spread per annum (2.75% at December 31, 2009). As of December 31, 2009, the notional amounts of the swap agreements total approximately $172.2 million with interest payable semi-annually.
In September 2009, the Company entered into two interest rate cap agreements with Goldman Sachs Mitsui Marine Derivative Products, L.P. on two of the variable rate mortgage loans. The Company paid an aggregate of $215,000 of fees under the terms of the agreements, which are in effect until February 2013. The interest rate cap agreements effectively limit the LIBOR Index rate under the loan agreements to a capped rate of 6.00% per annum. The interest rate cap agreements were assigned to Goldman Sachs Commercial Mortgage Company, L.P. as collateral under the individual loan agreements.
The Company entered into the total return interest rate swap agreements in order to mitigate the fair value risk associated with the underlying debt. The Company entered into the interest rate cap agreements in order to mitigate interest rate risk. Under ASC Topic 815, however, the Company did not qualify for hedge accounting. The fair values of the derivatives are recorded in other non-current assets and other long-term liabilities (see Note 9). Gains and losses associated with the derivatives are recorded in gain (loss) on derivative instruments.
The effect of derivative instruments on the consolidated statements of operations as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
The fair value of financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows (in thousands):
 
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the assets related to the fair value of interest rate swap and cap agreements were recorded in other non-current assets at approximately $9.0 million and $7.1 million, respectively. Liabilities related to the interest rate swap agreements were recorded in other long-term liabilities at approximately $4.8 million and $20.1 million, respectively. A net gain (loss) on derivative financial instruments of approximately $17.0 million and ($14.0) million was recorded in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively (see Note 8).
 
During 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded income tax expense as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective income tax rate follows:
 
A summary of the deferred income taxes by source included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows (in thousands):
 
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $66.9 million and $48.4 million, respectively, which expire in years 2025 through 2029.
At December 31, 2009, the Company has a valuation allowance of $43.2 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In determining the need for and the amount of the valuation allowance, the Company considered the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, and the implementation of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Although realization is not assured for the net deferred tax asset, management believes it is more likely than not that they will be utilized based on the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. If future taxable income is less than the amount that has been assumed in determining the deferred tax asset, then an increase in the valuation allowance will be required with a corresponding increase to income tax expense. Alternatively, if future taxable income exceeds the level that has been assumed in calculating
 
the deferred tax asset, the valuation allowance could be reduced with the corresponding reduction to income tax expense. In 2009, the Company increased the valuation allowance by $6.1 million and recognized a corresponding expense. The increase in the valuation allowance was primarily due to a change in the estimated future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Company records interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as income tax expense. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had determined that no uncertain tax positions existed and thus, no interest or penalties were accrued.
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and various state and local jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2009, the Company's tax years for 2005 to 2009 are subject to examination by the tax authorities.
 
A summary of other current assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows (in thousands):
 
A summary of accrued liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Mystic River Insurance Inc ("MRI") is majority-owned by a subsidiary of the Company. MRI is a captive insurance company domiciled in South Carolina which insures the general and professional liability risks of SGSL LLC in excess of a $100,000 deductible that is retained by the Company. MRI insures claims up to $1.0 million per claim, above the deductible, and $3.0 million in the aggregate. Funding for MRI is based upon actuarial evaluations of claims and industry trends.
 
 
CCI, a captive insurance company domiciled in South Carolina, is wholly-owned by the Company and is consolidated in the accompanying financial statements. CCI insures the general and professional liability risks of the Company (other than SGSL LLC, which is insured by MRI) in excess of a $100,000 deductible that is retained by the Company. CCI insures claims up to $1.0 million per claim, above the deductible, and $3.0 million in the aggregate. Funding for CCI is based upon actuarial evaluations of claims and industry trends.
Even though the Company funds certain amounts to CCI and MRI to pay potential claims, the Company retains various levels of professional and general liability risks. The Company accrues estimates of the ultimate costs for both reported claims and incurred but not reported claims payable by the Company. The Company has also purchased separate umbrella coverage to cover risk exposures in excess of CCI and MRI limits.
Currently, claims against the Company are in various stages of adjudication and/or litigation, some of which may result in payment from CCI and MRI. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of claims incurred to date should not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operations of the Company.
 
The Company incurred approximately $0.6 million and $1.8 million of expense in 2009 and 2008, respectively, for integration costs associated with its acquisitions. In conjunction with its acquisitions, the Company entered into various integration and retention plans with key employees. These plans included incentives related to the successful transition of these properties to the new manager, as well as incentives related to continued employment through dates extending to December 31, 2008. These expenses were recorded by the Company over the related service periods.
Integration-related expenses also include other costs that have been expensed as incurred. These expenses relate primarily to transitional expenses incurred for licensing services, consulting services, and initial employee training and travel.
 
The Company is subject to claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that any liability resulting from these matters, after taking into consideration its insurance coverages and amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
The Company has made certain guarantees to third parties. These guarantees may survive the expiration of the term of the agreements or extend into perpetuity (unless subject to a legal statute of limitations). There are no specific limitations on the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees, as the triggering events are not subject to predictability. The Company believes the likelihood of any losses resulting from these guarantees is remote.
The Company and certain partners have guaranteed certain obligations of Maplewood Place, an equity method investee. These guarantees include the payment of a monthly replacement reserve deposit in the amount of $3,474 if not paid by Maplewood Place. Additionally, the Company and certain partners have guaranteed to make payments in the event of certain tax credit recapture events. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, no payments were required under these guarantees and the fair value of these guarantees was not material.
 
 
The Company's financial statements are available for issue as of February 26, 2010. Any subsequent events have been evaluated through this date.
 

 
Exhibit 99.4
One Lantern Senior
Living Inc and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of
and for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010
and 2009 (unaudited)
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands)
 
 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND DECEMBER 31, 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
 
(Continued)
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND DECEMBER 31, 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
(Concluded)
 
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands)
 
 
 
(Continued)
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
(In thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF AND FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2010 AND 2009 (unaudited)
 
 
  One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("OLSL INC") and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a wholly owned subsidiary of Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP ("LSHP"), a real estate opportunity fund formed for the purpose of making debt and/or equity investments in senior housing assets located in the United States.
Organization
  As of September 30, 2010, the Company owned, operated, or managed 31 communities located in the Northeastern United States with a total of 3,097 units. Of the 31 communities, 16 were owned by the Company, 11 were operated by the Company pursuant to lease agreements, and two were managed by the Company on behalf of third parties. The Company also manages two communities in which it has a partial equity interest.
Background
The Company owns a 72.09% interest in SG Senior Living LLC ("SGSL LLC") as the managing member and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP ("Coinvestment Partnership") indirectly holds the remaining 27.91% membership interest. As of September 30, 2010, SGSL LLC owned and operated 12 properties.
Each of the 31 communities is managed by Atria Senior Living Group, Inc., a related entity, via various management and sub-management agreements.
 
  The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the Company's majority-owned subsidiaries and all variable interest entities where the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated. Investments in entities not controlled by ownership or contractual obligations are accounted for under the equity method.
Basis of Presentation
In the opinion of management, these financial statements include all adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company as of September 30, 2010, and for all periods presented. Those adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles have been condensed or omitted. The Company believes that the disclosures included are adequate and provide a fair presentation of interim period results. Interim financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the financial position or operating results for an entire year. It is suggested that these interim financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the notes thereto for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
  In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 167, ), which amended the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities ("VIE"). The new guidance requires a company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interest gives it a controlling financial interest in a VIE. The amendment, which requires ongoing reassessments, redefines the primary beneficiary as the party that (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The guidance includes enhanced disclosures about a company's involvement in a VIE and eliminates the exemption for qualifying special purpose entities. The Company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2010. Other than the required disclosures, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)
In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 820, , which requires additional disclosures to recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. A reporting entity is to disclose significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2, and describe the reason for those transfers. Additionally, an entity is to present separately, on a gross basis, information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements pertaining to the activity in Level 3. The guidance also clarifies the level of disaggregation and disclosures about input and valuation techniques used to determine Level 2 and Level 3 measurements. The ASC Topic 820 update is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009 (except for the requirement to separately disclose purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements, which becomes effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2010). The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010.
Improving Disclosure about Fair Value Measurements
 
In March 2010, the Company amended a lease agreement and exercised its purchase option for two of its communities. The original purchase option prices were based on the landlord's investment amounts plus increases in the consumer price index occurring after the landlord's investment. The amendment altered the purchase option to a fixed amount of $26.8 million with a closing date between 2013 and 2020. The lease also encompassed an additional community which had a purchase option equal to the fair market value minus 50% of the amount by which such fair market value exceeded $5.0 million. The amendment altered the purchase option to a fixed amount of $10.2 million which is exercisable in 2012.
As of September 30, 2010, the Company failed to comply with its current ratio requirement under a lease agreement. The noncompliance was primarily a result of a $7.7 million loan being reclassified to current liabilities based on its September 2011 maturity date. The Company has received a waiver of this lease covenant violation from the lessor and has subsequently extended the maturity of the loan until September 2012. The balance of the lease obligation as of September 30, 2010 is $108.9 million. The $7.7 million loan has been reclassified to long-term debt on the condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
The Company is a party to multiple total return interest rate swap agreements which effectively convert fixed rate Bonds Payable to variable rate obligations. The Company is also a party to two interest rate cap agreements.
The Company entered into the total return interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts of $172.1 million and $172.2 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, in order to mitigate the fair value risk associated with the underlying debt. The Company entered into the interest rate cap agreements in order to mitigate interest rate risk. Under ASC Topic 815, , however, the Company did not qualify for hedge accounting. The fair values of the derivatives are recorded in other noncurrent assets and other long-term liabilities. Gains and losses associated with the derivatives are recorded in gain (loss) on derivative instruments.
Derivatives
and Hedging
 
 
ASC Topic 820 defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures required for fair value measurements. This guidance defines a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels. These levels, in order of highest to lowest priority, are described below:
  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 1
  Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
Level 2
  Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 includes values determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques reflecting the Company's own assumptions.
Level 3
The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair value disclosures for financial instruments:
  The fair value is determined with the assistance of a third party using forward yield curves and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving comparable instruments.
Interest Rate Caps
  The fair value is derived using hypothetical market transactions involving comparable instruments as well as alternative financing rates derived from market based financing rates, forward yield curves, discount rates, and the Company's own credit risk.
Interest Rate Swaps
The effect of derivative instruments on the condensed consolidated statements of operations as of September 30, 2010 and 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
The fair value of financial instruments as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
At September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the assets related to the fair value of interest rate swap and cap agreements were recorded in other noncurrent assets at approximately $4.4 million and $9.0 million, respectively. Liabilities related to the interest rate swap agreements were recorded in other long-term liabilities at approximately $6.0 million and $4.8 million at September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. A net (loss) gain on derivative financial instruments of approximately $(5.8) million and $25.7 million was recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
The Company's effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 was 0.0%. The Company has a valuation allowance reducing its deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The difference between the Company's effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate is primarily due to increases in the valuation allowance resulting from recurring tax losses.
 
The Company is subject to claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that any liability resulting from these matters, after taking into consideration its insurance coverages and amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
The Company has made certain guarantees to third parties. These guarantees may survive the expiration of the term of the agreements or extend into perpetuity (unless subject to a legal statute of limitations).
 
There are no specific limitations on the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees, as the triggering events are not subject to predictability. The Company believes the likelihood of any losses resulting from these guarantees is remote.
The Company and certain partners have guaranteed certain obligations of Maplewood Place, an equity method investee. These guarantees include the payment of a monthly replacement reserve deposit in the amount of $3,474 if not paid by Maplewood Place. Additionally, the Company and certain partners have guaranteed to make payments in the event of certain tax credit recapture events. As of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, no payments were required under these guarantees and the fair value of these guarantees was not material.
 
The Company's financial statements are available for issue as of October 28, 2010. Any subsequent events have been evaluated through this date.
On October 21, 2010, the Company announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to merge its real estate with Ventas, Inc., a healthcare real estate investment trust. As part of this transaction, Ventas will acquire all of the Company's senior living communities. Subject to certain approvals, the transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2011.
 

 
Exhibit 99.5
On October 22, 2010, Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas" or the "Company") announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 118 private pay seniors housing communities managed by Atria Senior Living Group ("Atria") (including assets owned by Atria's affiliate One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("One Lantern")) from funds affiliated with Lazard Real Estate Partners for a purchase price of approximately $3.1 billion, comprised of $1.35 billion in Ventas common stock (a fixed 24.96 million shares), $150 million in cash and the assumption or repayment of approximately $1.6 billion of debt and capital lease obligations, less assumed cash. These pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements assume no repayment of the $1.6 billion of net debt. Certain assets and liabilities of Atria and One Lantern consisting primarily of the property management business and certain working capital, property leases and insurance items will not be acquired and have been so reflected in the pro forma adjustments.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information sets forth:
 
 
 
 
 
These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared for informational purposes only and are based on assumptions and estimates considered appropriate by Ventas's management; however, they are not necessarily indicative of what Ventas's consolidated financial condition or results of operations actually would have been assuming the transactions had been consummated as of the dates indicated, nor do they purport to represent the consolidated financial position or results of operations for future periods. Further, as these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements include only those adjustments directly attributable to the transactions described above, they do not include the impact of any strategies that management may consider in order to continue to efficiently manage Ventas's operations. This pro forma condensed consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
The acquisition of Atria and One Lantern will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The total purchase price of approximately $3.1 billion will be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values. The purchase price allocation has not been finalized and is subject to change based upon finalization of working capital adjustments and completion of appraisals of the tangible and intangible assets acquired. The purchase price allocation is preliminary and will be finalized once the transaction closes which is anticipated to occur in the first half of 2011. The allocations included in the pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are estimates based upon the best available information at the current time. Upon closing the Company will record the fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed utilizing all available information including appraisal information with respect to the tangible and intangible assets acquired.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1  BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION
Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas" or the "Company") is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and Canada. The historical consolidated financial statements of Ventas include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities over which it exercises control.
On October 22, 2010, Ventas announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 118 private pay seniors housing communities managed by Atria Senior Living Group ("Atria") (including assets owned by Atria's affiliate One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("One Lantern")) from funds affiliated with Lazard Real Estate Partners ("Lazard") for a purchase price of approximately $3.1 billion, comprised of $1.35 billion in Ventas common stock (a fixed 24.96 million shares), $150 million in cash and the assumption or repayment of approximately $1.6 billion of debt and capital lease obligations, less assumed cash. These pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements assume no repayment of the $1.6 billion of net debt.
NOTE 2  ADJUSTMENTS TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 3  VENTAS 2009 AND 2010 TRANSACTIONS ADJUSTMENTS
 
NOTE 4  ADJUSTMENTS TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 5  FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AND NORMALIZED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS
Ventas's historical and pro forma funds from operations ("FFO") and normalized FFO for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
 
FFO per diluted share outstanding for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
Historical and pro forma FFO and normalized FFO for the year ended December 31, 2009 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
 
FFO per diluted share outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2009 follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
Pro forma FFO and normalized FFO are presented for information purposes only, and were based on available information and assumptions that the Company's management believes to be reasonable; however, they are not necessarily indicative of what Ventas's FFO or normalized FFO actually would have been assuming the transactions had occurred as of the dates indicated.
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values, instead, have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, Ventas considers FFO and normalized FFO appropriate measures of operating performance of an equity REIT. Further, Ventas believes that normalized FFO provides useful information because it allows investors, analysts and Ventas management to compare Ventas's operating performance to the operating performance of other real estate companies and between periods on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated items. Ventas uses the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate property, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. Ventas defines "normalized FFO" as FFO excluding the following items (which may be recurring in nature): (a) gains and losses on the sales of assets; (b) merger-related costs and expenses, including amortization of intangible and transition and integration expenses, and deal costs and expenses, including expenses relating to the Company's lawsuit against HCP, Inc.; (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuations allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts or premiums incurred as a result of early debt retirement or payment of the Company's debt; and (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits or expenses.
FFO and normalized FFO presented herein are not necessarily identical to FFO and normalized FFO presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. FFO and normalized FFO should not be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of Ventas's financial performance or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of Ventas's liquidity, nor are FFO and normalized FFO necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of Ventas's needs. Ventas believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of Ventas's consolidated historical operating results, FFO and normalized FFO should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.


