FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20100218085554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 18, 2010, Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. The press release refers to supplemental information regarding the Company, including its consolidated financial statements, that is available on the Company's website at www.ventasreit.com.
Copies of the press release and supplemental information are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and incorporated in this Item 2.02 by reference.
The press release states that the Company's normalized funds from operations ("FFO") for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $409.0 million, or $2.68 per diluted common share, as compared to $379.5 million, or $2.71 per diluted common share, for the year ended December 31, 2008. FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $393.4 million, or $2.58 per diluted common share, as compared to $412.4 million, or $2.95 per diluted common share, for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company's net income attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $266.5 million, or $1.74 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $71.7 million), as compared to $222.6 million, or $1.59 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $47.2 million), for 2008.
For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the Company's normalized FFO was $104.8 million, or $0.67 per diluted common share, as compared to $94.0 million, or $0.66 per diluted common share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2008. NAREIT FFO for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $104.0 million, or $0.66 per diluted common share, as compared to $97.6 million, or $0.68 per diluted common share, for the fourth quarter of 2008. The Company's net income attributable to common stockholders for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $54.1 million, or $0.35 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $0.3 million), as compared to $57.5 million, or $0.40 per diluted common share (after discontinued operations of $14.6 million), for the comparable period in 2008.
The press release also states that the Company expects its normalized FFO for the year ending December 31, 2010 to be between $2.69 and $2.75 per diluted common share and normalized FAD to be between $2.55 and $2.62 per diluted common share. The Company expects its net income attributable to common stockholders for 2010 to be between $1.38 and $1.47 per diluted common share.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, merger integration, growth opportunities, dispositions, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and its ability to identify, underwrite, consummate, finance and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases
 
in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 and for the year ending December 31, 2010; (m) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred Healthcare, Inc., and the Company's earnings; (q) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) the ability and willingness of the lenders under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests made by the Company from time to time; (t) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (u) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On February 18, 2010, the Company also announced that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.535 per share, payable in cash on March 31, 2010 to stockholders of record on March 12, 2010.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
Not applicable.
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information.
Not applicable.
(c) .
Shell Company Transactions
Not applicable.
(d)
Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that normalized Funds From Operations ("FFO") for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased 7.8 percent to $409.0 million, from $379.5 million for the comparable 2008 period. Normalized FFO per diluted common share was $2.68 for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $2.71 for the comparable 2008 period. Weighted average diluted shares outstanding totaled 152.8 million for 2009, a 9.2 percent increase from 139.9 million in the comparable 2008 period.
CHICAGO, IL (February 18, 2010)
"2009 was a remarkable year for Ventas.  Our cash flows from operations grew over ten percent because our high-quality, diversified healthcare and seniors housing assets demonstrated strength and reliability despite a challenging economic environment," Ventas Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Debra A. Cafaro said. "And we are very pleased to announce that we culminated the decade as the best performing publicly-traded REIT, with a compound annual total shareholder return exceeding 35 percent.
"During the year, we successfully accessed multiple capital markets to improve our liquidity and reduce our leverage, while we remained focused on building shareholder value," she added.  "As 2010 begins, Ventas enjoys a great balance sheet and a hard-working team committed to delivering value to our stakeholders. We are well positioned to execute our strategic growth and diversification plan as we begin a new year and a new decade."
Normalized FFO for the year ended December 31, 2009 excludes the net expense (totaling $15.6 million, or $0.10 per diluted share) from merger-related expenses and deal costs, including fees and expenses incurred to obtain the Company's favorable $101.6 million jury verdict against HCP, Inc. ("HCP"), and loss on extinguishment of debt, offset by income tax benefit. Normalized FFO for the year ended December 31, 2008 excluded the net benefit (totaling $32.9 million, or $0.24 per diluted share) from income taxes and the previously recorded contingent liability reversal and gain on extinguishment of debt, offset by the valuation allowance on real estate mortgage loans receivable and merger-related expenses and deal costs.
Fourth quarter 2009 normalized FFO increased 11.5 percent to $104.8 million, from $94.0 million in the 2008 fourth quarter. Normalized FFO per diluted common share in the fourth quarter of 2009 increased 1.5 percent to $0.67, from $0.66 a year earlier. Fourth quarter 2009 normalized FFO per diluted common share versus the comparable period in 2008 benefited from rental increases from the Company's triple-net lease portfolio; higher Net Operating Income after management fees ("NOI") at the Company's senior living and medical office building ("MOB") operating portfolios; lower interest expense; and lower general, administrative and professional fees, offset by higher weighted average diluted shares outstanding.
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 2
Normalized FFO for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 excludes the net expense (totaling $0.8 million) from merger-related expenses and deal costs, including those incurred to obtain the Company's favorable verdict in its lawsuit against HCP, offset by income tax benefit. Normalized FFO for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 excluded the net benefit (totaling $3.6 million, or $0.03 per diluted share) from income taxes and gain on extinguishment of debt, offset by merger-related expenses and deal costs.
FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), for the fourth quarter of 2009 increased 6.6 percent to $104.0 million, from $97.6 million in the prior year due to the factors stated above. Fourth quarter 2009 NAREIT FFO per diluted common share decreased 2.9 percent to $0.66, from $0.68 a year earlier due to higher weighted average diluted shares outstanding in 2009.
NAREIT FFO for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased 4.6 percent to $393.4 million, or $2.58 per diluted common share, from $412.4 million, or $2.95 per diluted common share, for the comparable 2008 period. This decrease is principally due to the previously recorded contingent liability reversal and higher weighted average diluted shares outstanding in 2009.
FIRST QUARTER DIVIDEND INCREASES TO $0.535 PER COMMON SHARE
Ventas also said today that its Board of Directors increased the Company's first quarter 2010 dividend by 4.4 percent to $0.535 per share. The first quarter dividend is payable in cash on March 31, 2010 to stockholders of record on March 12, 2010.
"We are especially pleased that we can increase our dividend and share our strong and growing cash flows with our shareholders," Cafaro stated. "This decision demonstrates our confidence in the Company's financial strength and prospects."
SUNRISE PORTFOLIO
2009 Total Portfolio NOI of $131 Million
The Company's operating portfolio contains 79 seniors housing communities in North America that are managed by Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. (NYSE: SRZ) ("Sunrise"). Ventas owns 100 percent of 19 of these communities and has an ownership share of between 75 percent and 85 percent in the remaining 60 communities through joint ventures, in which Sunrise owns the noncontrolling interest.
NOI for these 79 communities was $33.3 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, compared to $32.2 million for the comparable 2008 period. Total 2009 NOI for the portfolio was $131.0 million, compared to $138.8 for the comparable 2008 period. The comparable 2008 period included approximately $4 million in expense credits that benefited 2008 NOI.
"Our portfolio of mansion-style, need-driven seniors housing managed by Sunrise continued to gain traction in the fourth quarter, with occupancy increasing to 88.8 percent in the 78 stabilized communities," Ventas Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer Raymond J. Lewis said. "We expect 2010 NOI from our portfolio to grow due to the excellent locations and desirable appearance of our communities, an improving economy and Sunrise management's renewed focus on operations."
Same-Store Stabilized Community Occupancy Improves Sequentially
For the 78 communities that were stabilized in the 2009 third and fourth quarters, average occupancy increased to 88.8 percent in the fourth quarter, versus 88.1 percent in the third quarter. NOI for these 78 communities was $32.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to $33.0 million in the third quarter of 2009. Average daily rate was slightly positive in these communities on a sequential basis, rising 0.5 percent, and expenses increased during the fourth quarter, as repair and maintenance allocations were spent, and increased occupancy resulted in higher salaries, wages and benefits and management fee expenses.
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 3
For the 77 Sunrise communities that were stabilized in the fourth quarters of both 2009 and 2008, total community NOI increased 3.1 percent to $32.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, versus $31.3 million for the comparable 2008 period. Average daily rate rose 3.6 percent, while expenses increased 0.7 percent. Average occupancy decreased 190 basis points year-over-year, from 90.7 percent to 88.8 percent.
GAAP NET INCOME
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 was $54.1 million, or $0.35 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $0.3 million, compared with net income attributable to common stockholders for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 of $57.5 million, or $0.40 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $14.6 million.
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $266.5 million, or $1.74 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $71.7 million, compared with net income attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2008 of $222.6 million, or $1.59 per diluted common share, after discontinued operations of $47.2 million.
FOURTH QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS AND OTHER RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Portfolio, Performance and Balance Sheet Highlights
2009 Recap
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 4
Liquidity, Balance Sheet & Credit Ratings
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 5
Investments and Dispositions
Portfolio
Verdict Against HCP  Update
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 6
VENTAS ISSUES 2010 NORMALIZED FFO AND FAD GUIDANCE
Ventas currently expects its 2010 normalized FFO per diluted share to range between $2.69 and $2.75 per diluted common share and normalized FAD to be between $2.55 and $2.62 per diluted common share. The Company's normalized FFO and FAD guidance (and related GAAP earnings projections) for all periods assumes that all of the Company's tenants and borrowers continue to meet all of their obligations to the Company. In addition, the Company's normalized FFO and FAD guidance excludes (a) gains and losses on the sales of assets, (b) merger-related costs and expenses, deal costs and expenses, and earnout payments, including expenses relating to the Company's lawsuit against HCP, (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts or premiums incurred as a result of early retirement or payment of the Company's debt, (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits or expenses, (e) net proceeds, if any, the Company may receive from its lawsuit against HCP related to the acquisition of Sunrise Senior Living REIT, (f) the impact of future unannounced acquisitions or divestitures (including pursuant to tenant options to purchase) (other than the investment of year-end cash on hand) and capital transactions, and (g) the reversal or incurrence of contingent liabilities.
The Company's guidance is based on a number of other assumptions, which are subject to change and many of which are outside the control of the Company. If actual results vary from these assumptions, the Company's expectations may change. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve these results.
A reconciliation of the Company's guidance to the Company's projected GAAP earnings is attached to this press release. The Company may from time to time update its publicly announced guidance, but it is not obligated to do so.
FOURTH QUARTER CONFERENCE CALL
Ventas will hold a conference call to discuss this earnings release today, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (9:00 a.m. Central Time). The dial-in number for the conference call is (617) 597-5362. The participant passcode is "Ventas." The conference call is being webcast live by CCBN and can be accessed at the Company's website at or . An online replay of the webcast will be available today at approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time and will be archived for one month.
www.ventasreit.com
www.earnings.com
Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. As of December 31, 2009, Ventas owned 505 seniors housing and healthcare properties located in 43 states and two Canadian provinces. Its diverse portfolio included 244 seniors housing communities, 187 skilled nursing facilities, 40 hospitals, and 34 medical office buildings and other properties. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at .
www.ventasreit.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, merger integration, growth opportunities, dispositions, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 7
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) the results of litigation affecting the Company; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 and for the year ending December 31, 2010; (m) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs, insurance costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred, and the Company's earnings; (q) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) the ability and willingness of the lenders under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities to fund, in whole or in part, borrowing requests made by the Company from time to time; (t) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (u) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") guidance relating to convertible debt instruments that specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Additionally, on January 1, 2009, the Company adopted FASB guidance that changes the reporting for minority interests, which now must be characterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of consolidated equity. The calculation of income and earnings per share continues to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent and is characterized as net income attributable to common stockholders. As required, all prior period amounts have been restated to reflect the adoption of this new guidance.
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 8
NORMALIZED FFO AND FAD GUIDANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2010
The following table illustrates the Company's normalized FFO and FAD per diluted common share guidance for the year ending December 31, 2010:
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 9
Net Debt to Pro Forma EBITDA
The following pro forma information considers the effect on net income, interest and depreciation of the Company's investments and other capital transactions that were completed during the three months ended December 31, 2009, as if the transactions had been consummated as of the beginning of the period. The following table illustrates net debt to pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), excluding merger-related expenses and deal costs (dollars in thousands):
The Company considers EBITDA, excluding merger-related expenses and deal costs, a profitability measure which indicates the Company's ability to service debt.  The Company considers the net debt to pro forma EBITDA ratio a useful measure to evaluate the Company's ability to pay its indebtedness. EBITDA, excluding merger-related and deal costs, presented herein is not necessarily comparable to EBITDA presented by other companies due to the fact that not all companies use the same definition. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of the Company's financial performance or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of the Company's liquidity, nor is EBITDA necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of the Company's needs. The Company believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of the consolidated historical operating results of the Company, EBITDA should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented elsewhere herein.
 
Ventas Reports Fourth Quarter Results February 18, 2010 Page 10

Exhibit 99.2
 
Table of Contents
 
Owned Portfolio  Overview by Type (Dollars in Millions):
1
Loan Portfolio  Overview by Investment (Dollars in Millions):
1
Owned Portfolio  Overview by State/Province:
1
 
Owned and Loan Portfolio  Property Type Concentration:
1
Owned and Loan Portfolio  Operator Concentration:
1
Owned Portfolio  State/Province Concentration:
1
 
 
Private Pay Owned Asset Composition Trend:
 
Triple-Net and Operating Portfolio Revenue Rollover Schedule Excluding Seniors Housing Operating Communities:
1
 
Company Development Data:
 
Same-Store Triple-Net Portfolio Trend Data for Properties Owned for the Full 3rd Quarters of 2009 & 2008:
1,2
Same-Store Triple-Net Portfolio Trend Data for Properties Owned for the Full 2nd and 3rd Quarters of 2009:
1,2
 
Kindred Healthcare Same-Store TTM EBITDARM Coverage Ratios:
1
 
Triple-Net Lease Portfolio Trends:
 
Triple-Net Lease Portfolio Trends:
 
Triple-Net Lease Portfolio Trends:
 
Medical Office Portfolio Statistics:
1
 
Medical Office Stabilized Portfolio Trends:
 
Seniors Housing Operating Portfolio Statistics:
1
 
Seniors Housing Stabilized Operating Portfolio Trends:
 
Historical Normalized FFO/Share:
1
 
Capitalization:
 
Debt Maturity Schedule:
1
 
Debt Maturities and Scheduled Principal Amortization
1
Debt Composition
1
 
Debt Covenants:
 
Debt Covenants:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, the Company considers FFO and normalized FFO and FAD appropriate measures of performance of an equity REIT. The Company uses the NAREIT definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of property, plus real estate depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis. The Company defines normalized FFO as FFO excluding certain income and expense items as listed below. Normalized FAD represents normalized FFO excluding straight-line rental adjustments and routine capital expenditures.
FFO and normalized FFO and FAD presented herein are not necessarily comparable to FFO and normalized FFO and FAD presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. FFO and normalized FFO and FAD should not be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of the Company's financial performance or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of the Company's liquidity, nor are FFO and normalized FFO and FAD necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of the Company's needs. The Company believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of the consolidated historical operating results of the Company, FFO and normalized FFO and FAD should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented elsewhere herein.
The Company's normalized FFO excludes (a) gains and losses on the sales of assets, (b) merger-related costs and expenses and deal costs and expenses, including expenses relating to the Company's lawsuit against HCP, Inc., (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts or premiums incurred as a result of early debt retirement or payment of the Company's debt, (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits and (e) the reversal of contingent liabilities.
 
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards
On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") guidance relating to convertible debt instruments that specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Additionally, on January 1, 2009, the Company adopted FASB guidance which changes the reporting for minority interests, which now must be characterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of consolidated equity. The calculation of income and earnings per share continues to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent and is characterized as net income attributable to common stockholders. As required, all prior period amounts have been restated to reflect the adoption of this new guidance.
 
Normalized FFO and FAD Guidance for the Year Ending December 31, 2010
The following table illustrates the Company's normalized FFO and FAD per diluted common share guidance for the year ending December 31, 2010:
 
Net Debt to Pro Forma EBITDA
The following pro forma information considers the effect on net income, interest and depreciation of the Company's investments and other capital transactions that were completed during the three months ended December 31, 2009, as if the transactions had been consummated as of the beginning of the period. The following table illustrates net debt to pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), excluding merger-related expenses and deal costs (dollars in thousands):
The Company considers EBITDA, excluding merger-related expenses and deal costs, a profitability measure which indicates the Company's ability to service debt. The Company considers the net debt to pro forma EBITDA ratio a useful measure to evaluate the Company's ability to pay its indebtedness. EBITDA, excluding merger-related and deal costs, presented herein is not necessarily comparable to EBITDA presented by other companies due to the fact that not all companies use the same definition. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of the Company's financial performance or as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of the Company's liquidity, nor is EBITDA necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of the Company's needs. The Company believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of the consolidated historical operating results of the Company, EBITDA should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented elsewhere herein.


