FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20111222165313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported):
December 21, 2011
VENTAS, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code:
(877) 483-6827
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.02.          Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
            Effective December 21, 2011, Nationwide Health Properties, LLC (NHP), a wholly owned subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. (the Company), terminated the commitments under the Term Loan Agreement, dated June 3, 2011, as amended, among NHP (as successor to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.), as borrower, the lenders identified therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent.
Item 2.03.          Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On December 21, 2011, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership (Ventas Realty), Ventas SSL Ontario II, Inc. and Ventas SSL Ontario III, Inc., each of which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, as borrowers (collectively, the Borrowers), and the Company, as guarantor, entered into a Term Loan A Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the Term Loan A Agreement) with the lenders indentified therein and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.  Also on December 21, 2011, Ventas Realty, as borrower, and the Company, as guarantor, entered into a Term Loan B Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the Term Loan B Agreement and, together with the Term Loan A Agreement, the Term Loan Agreements) with the lenders indentified therein and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
The Term Loan A Agreement and the Term Loan B Agreement provide for term loans on a non-revolving basis in the aggregate amounts of $125 million and $375 million, respectively, which were fully funded as of December 21, 2011.  The aggregate amount of term loans under the Term Loan Agreements may be increased, at the Borrowers option, to up to $900 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the Term Loan Agreements, including the receipt of additional commitments for such increase.
The Borrowers obligations under the Term Loan Agreements are guaranteed by the Company and rank equal in right of payment with all other senior unsecured obligations of the Borrowers and the Company.
Borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan Agreements bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum based on the applicable LIBOR for Eurocurrency rate loans and the higher of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the Administrative Agents prime rate and (z) the applicable LIBOR plus 1.0% for base rate loans, plus, in each case, an applicable percentage. The applicable percentage is determined by reference to Ventas Realtys senior unsecured long-term debt ratings and ranges from 1.10% to 2.30% for Eurocurrency rate loans and from 0.10% to 1.30% for base rate loans.  At December 21, 2011, the applicable percentage was 1.25% for Eurocurrency rate loans and 0.25% for base rate loans.
The Term Loan A Agreement matures on January 30, 2015, and the Term Loan B Agreement matures on January 31, 2017. Loans outstanding under the Term Loan Agreements may be repaid from time to time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs, if any, with respect to Eurocurrency rate loans.
The Term Loan Agreements impose certain customary restrictions on the Borrowers, the Company and their subsidiaries that are consistent with the restrictions set forth in the Companys existing unsecured revolving credit facility, including restrictions pertaining to: (i) liens; (ii) investments; (iii) the incurrence of additional indebtedness; (iv) mergers, sales of assets and dissolutions; (v) certain dividend, distribution and other payments; (vi) permitted businesses; (vii) transactions with affiliates; (viii) agreements limiting certain liens; and (ix) the maintenance of certain consolidated total leverage, secured debt leverage, unsecured leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios and minimum consolidated adjusted net worth.
The Term Loan Agreements contain customary events of default. If a default occurs and is continuing, the Borrowers may be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the Term Loan Agreements.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on December 21, 2011 announcing the closing of the Term Loan Agreements is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)  
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
      Not applicable.
(b)  
Pro Forma Financial Information.
      Not applicable.
(c)  .
Shell Company Transactions
       Not applicable.
(d)       
Exhibits:
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Ventas Closes New $500 Million Unsecured Term Loan
CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--December 21, 2011--Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) (Ventas or the Company) said today that its subsidiary, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, has closed a new $500 million unsecured term loan (the Term Loan) that has a weighted average maturity of 4.5 years and is currently priced at 125 basis points over LIBOR.
This new term loan reinforces our strategy of using our strong capital position to continue to grow and diversify our enterprise for the benefit of stakeholders, Ventas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Debra A. Cafaro said.
Proceeds from the Term Loan will be used to repay borrowings outstanding on the Companys $2 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. The Term Loan consists of two tranches, a 3-year and a 5-year maturity, and includes an accordion feature permitting the Company to expand its borrowing capacity to a total of $900 million.
Concurrently with the closing of the Term Loan, the Company terminated the term loan that it assumed with its acquisition of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. (the NHP Term Loan). The NHP Term Loan would have matured in June 2012, and no amounts were outstanding thereunder.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. were the joint bookrunners for the Term Loan. Citibank, N.A. is serving as the Administrative Agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. acted as the Syndication Agent.
Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. Its diverse portfolio of more than 1,300 assets in 47 states (including the District of Columbia) and two Canadian provinces consists of seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, medical office buildings and other properties. Through its Lillibridge subsidiary, Ventas provides management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States. More information about Ventas and Lillibridge can be found at and .
http://www.ventasreit.com
http://www.lillibridge.com
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Companys or its tenants, operators, managers or borrowers expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, dispositions, merger integration, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust (REIT), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as anticipate, if, believe, plan, estimate, expect, intend, may, could, should, will and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Companys expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
The Companys actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Companys tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Companys tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Companys success in implementing its business strategy and the Companys ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including the Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. transaction and those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) macroeconomic conditions such as a disruption of or lack of access to the capital markets, changes in the debt rating on U.S. government securities, default and/or delay in payment by the United States of its obligations, and changes in the federal budget resulting in the reduction or nonpayment of Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement rates; (e) the nature and extent of future competition; (f) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (g) increases in the Companys cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (h) the ability of the Companys operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (i) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Companys revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (j) the Companys ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (k) the Companys ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (l) final determination of the Companys taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2011; (m) the ability and willingness of the Companys tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Companys ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Companys tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (n) risks associated with the Companys senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Companys operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs, insurance costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (o) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (p) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred, and the Companys earnings; (q) the Companys ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (r) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Companys tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Companys tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (s) risks associated with the Companys MOB portfolio and operations, including its ability to successfully design, develop and manage MOBs, to accurately estimate its costs in fixed fee-for-service projects and to retain key personnel; (t) the ability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses the Companys MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems to remain competitive and financially viable and to attract physicians and physician groups; (u) the Companys ability to maintain or expand its relationships with its existing and future hospital and health system clients; (v) risks associated with the Companys investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities, including its lack of sole decision-making authority and its reliance on its joint venture partners financial condition; (w) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Companys investments in marketable securities; and (x) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues or litigation that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers.
Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
CONTACT: Ventas, Inc. David J. Smith (877) 4-VENTAS


