FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20110520165405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On May 17, 2011, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("Ventas Realty"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into a loan agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation ("NHP"). The Company and NHP are parties to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 27, 2011, under which NHP is to be merged with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, at the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of NHP common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.7866 shares of the Company's common stock.
Under the Loan Agreement, Ventas Realty has agreed to make a $600 million unsecured loan (the "Loan") to NHP. The Company expects NHP to use the proceeds from the Loan to repay amounts outstanding under its revolving credit facility, to acquire properties and for general corporate purposes. The outstanding principal amount of the Loan will bear interest at the rate of 5.0% per annum, with interest payable on a semi-annual basis, commencing November 2011.
The Loan has a stated maturity of ten years, but NHP has the right to prepay the Loan at any time, in whole or in part. Additionally, NHP has agreed to prepay the Loan on the earlier of (i) the occurrence of a change of control of NHP (other than the Merger), or (ii) October 31, 2012, if the Merger is not completed by October 31, 2011. Under certain circumstances, if the Loan is prepaid prior to the stated maturity, NHP will receive a discount equal to the difference between (i) the amount of interest actually accrued on the portion of the Loan being repaid from the date of the Loan Agreement through the date of such prepayment (exclusive of any default interest) and (ii) the amount of interest that would have accrued on such portion of the Loan during such period of time if the applicable interest rate on the Loan had been 2.5% per annum.
The Loan Agreement also contains certain covenants, including, among others, limitations on additional indebtedness and limitations on liens.
The foregoing description of the Loan Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Loan Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
The disclosure contained in "Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement" and Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
 
On May 17, 2011, Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Issuers"), each a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, issued and sold $700 million aggregate principal amount of their 4.750% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "Notes") in a registered public offering pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-158424) filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which Registration Statement became automatically effective on April 6, 2009. The Notes were sold pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement dated May 10, 2011 among the Issuers, the Company, and the underwriters named therein.
The Notes mature on June 1, 2021. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 4.750% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing on December 1, 2011. The Notes are unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company.
The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Issuers and the Company, ranking equal in right of payment with all of such entities' existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and ranking senior in right of payment to all of such entities' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. However, the Notes are effectively subordinated to all of such entities' secured borrowings to the extent of the assets securing those obligations. The Notes are also structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other obligations of the Company's subsidiaries (other than the Issuers).
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes (a) to fund the cash portion of the purchase price and the Company's transaction costs in connection with the Company's acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. and certain of its affiliated entities, (b) to make the Loan to NHP and/or (c) for general corporate purposes.
The terms of the Notes, summarized herein, are governed by the Indenture dated as of September 19, 2006 (the "Base Indenture"), as amended by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 17, 2011 (the "Fourth Supplemental Indenture"), among the Issuers, the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. The Base Indenture, as so amended (the "Indenture"), contains certain covenants that limit the Company's and its subsidiaries' ability to incur debt, incur secured debt and merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of their assets, taken as a whole. The Company and its subsidiaries are also required to maintain total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of their unsecured debt.
The Issuers may redeem the Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time. The redemption price for Notes that are redeemed before March 1, 2021 will be equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date, plus a make-whole premium. The redemption price for Notes that are redeemed on or after March 1, 2021 will be equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, together with any accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date, and will not include a make-whole premium.
The Indenture contains certain customary events of default, including without limitation: failure to make required payments; failure to comply with certain agreements or covenants; cross-defaults to certain other indebtedness in excess of specified amounts; and certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency. An event of default under the Indenture will allow either the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes to accelerate, or in certain cases will automatically cause the acceleration of, the amounts due under the Notes.
 
U.S. Bank National Association, the trustee under the Indenture, is also the trustee under each of the indentures relating to the Issuers' 9% Senior Notes due 2012, 3.125% Senior Notes due 2015, 6/% Senior Notes due 2016, and 6/% Senior Notes due 2017 and the Company's 3/% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011.
1
2
3
4
7
8
The foregoing description of the Notes and the Indenture is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Base Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, copies of which are incorporated by reference herein or filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, and incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
(a)
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
Not applicable.
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information.
Not applicable.
(c) .
Shell Company Transactions
Not applicable.
(d)
Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of May 17, 2011 (the ""), is by and among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), Ventas Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), having a Corporate Trust Office at 425 Walnut ML CN WN 06 CT, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, as Trustee under the Indenture (defined below).
Fourth Supplemental Indenture
Partnership
Ventas Capital
Trustee
WHEREAS, Ventas, Inc., the Partnership, Ventas Capital, the Guarantors named therein and the Trustee are parties to that certain indenture dated as of September 19, 2006 (the "" and, as amended and supplemented from time to time, the ""), providing for the issuance by Ventas, Inc. or by the Partnership and Ventas Capital together from time to time of their respective senior debt securities (the "");
Base Indenture
Indenture
Securities
WHEREAS, Sections 2.02 and 9.01 of the Base Indenture provide, among other things, that, without the consent of the Holders of the Securities, one or more indentures supplemental to the Base Indenture may be entered into to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series or to change or eliminate any of the provisions of the Base Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provisions;
WHEREAS, the Partnership and Ventas Capital, acting in their capacity as issuers under the Base Indenture (together with their respective successors, the ""), desire to issue a series of their Securities under the Base Indenture, and have duly authorized the creation and issuance of such Securities and the execution and delivery of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture to modify the Base Indenture and to provide certain additional provisions in respect of such Securities as hereinafter described;
Issuers
WHEREAS, the Issuers desire to issue such Securities with the benefit of a guarantee provided by Ventas, Inc. on the terms set forth in the Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. and the Trustee deem it advisable to enter into this Fourth Supplemental Indenture for the purposes of establishing the terms of such Securities and guarantee and providing for the rights, obligations and duties of the Trustee with respect to such Securities;
WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution hereof, the Issuers have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and have caused their counsel to deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel or a reliance letter upon an Opinion of Counsel satisfying the requirements of Section 2.03 of the Base Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements of the Base Indenture necessary to make this Fourth Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto, and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and agreements herein contained, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of such Securities, as follows:
Section 1.01 .
Designation of the Series; Securities Guarantee
(a) The changes, modifications and supplements to the Base Indenture effected by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be applicable only with respect to, and govern the terms of, the Notes (as defined below), which shall not apply to any other Securities that have been or may be issued under the Base Indenture unless a supplemental indenture with respect to such other Securities specifically incorporates such changes, modifications and supplements. Pursuant to the terms hereof and Sections 2.01 and 2.02 of the Base Indenture, the Issuers hereby create a series of Securities designated as the "4.750% Senior Notes due 2021" (the ""), which Notes shall be deemed "" for all purposes under the Base Indenture. Except as otherwise provided in the Base Indenture, the Notes shall form their own series for voting purposes, and shall not be part of the same class or series as any other Securities issued by the Issuers or by Ventas, Inc.
Notes
Securities
(b) Each of the Notes will be guaranteed by the Guarantor in accordance with Article 10 of the Base Indenture and Article VII of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 1.02 . The Notes will be issued in definitive form and the definitive form of the Notes shall be one or more Global Securities substantially in the form set forth in attached hereto, which is incorporated herein and made a part hereof. The Notes shall bear interest, be payable and have such other terms as are stated in the form of definitive Note or in the Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture. The stated maturity of the principal of the Notes shall be June 1, 2021.
Form of Notes
Exhibit A
Section 1.03 . The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver on May 17, 2011, Notes for original issue in an aggregate principal amount of up to $700,000,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes shall be unlimited; , that the terms of all Notes issued under this Fourth Supplemental Indenture (other than the date of issuance) shall be the same. The Issuers may, upon the execution and delivery of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture or from time to time thereafter, execute and deliver the Notes to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Notes upon an Authentication Order and delivery of an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel as contemplated by Section 2.03 of the Base Indenture, without further action by the Issuers.
No Limit on Amount of Notes
provided
Section 1.04 . The Notes will be the Issuers' unsecured and unsubordinated obligations and rank equal in right of payment with all of the Issuers' existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Ranking
 
Section 1.05 . The Trustee's certificate of authentication to be included on the Notes shall be substantially as provided in the form of Note attached hereto as .
Certificate of Authentication
Exhibit A
Section 1.06 . No sinking fund will be provided with respect to the Notes (notwithstanding any provisions of the Base Indenture with respect to sinking fund obligations).
No Sinking Fund
Section 1.07 . No Additional Amounts will be payable with respect to the Notes (notwithstanding any provisions of the Base Indenture with respect to Additional Amount obligations).
No Additional Amounts
Section 1.08 .
Definitions
(a) Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Base Indenture.
(b) Solely for purposes of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes, the following definitions in Section 1.01 of the Base Indenture are hereby amended in their entirety to read as follows:
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings.
Affiliate
"" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are required or authorized to close.
Business Day
"" means, as of any date (without duplication), (1) all indebtedness and liabilities for borrowed money, secured or unsecured, of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries, including mortgages and other notes payable (including the Notes to the extent outstanding from time to time), but excluding any indebtedness, including mortgages and other notes payable, which is secured by cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities or defeased (it being understood that cash collateral shall be deemed to include cash deposited with a trustee with respect to third party indebtedness) and (2) all Contingent Liabilities of Ventas, Inc. and Subsidiaries, excluding in each of clauses (1) and (2) Intercompany Debt and all liabilities associated with customary exceptions to non-recourse indebtedness, such as for fraud, misapplication of funds, environmental indemnities, voluntary bankruptcy, collusive involuntary bankruptcy and other similar exceptions.
Debt
It is understood that Debt shall not include any redeemable equity interest in Ventas, Inc.
 
"" means, with respect to the Indenture and the Notes, any event that is, or with the passage of time or giving of notice would be, an Event of Default.
Default
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, consistently applied, as in effect from time to time.
GAAP
"" means, with respect to any Debt or other obligation of any Person, to create, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable in respect of such Debt or other obligation, and "Incurrence" and "Incurred" have the meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Incur
"" has the meaning set forth in the Indenture and the Notes.
Interest Payment Date
"" means (without duplication) any lien, mortgage, trust deed, deed of trust, deed to secure debt, pledge, security interest, assignment for collateral purposes, deposit arrangement, or other security agreement, excluding any right of setoff but including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, and any other like agreement granting or conveying a security interest; , that for purposes hereof, "Lien" shall not include any mortgage that has been defeased by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries in accordance with the provisions thereof through the deposit of cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities (it being understood that cash collateral shall be deemed to include cash deposited with a trustee with respect to third party indebtedness).
Lien
provided
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
Person
"" means, as of any date, the real estate assets of such Person and its Subsidiaries on such date, on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP.
Real Estate Assets
"" means each Subsidiary that is a "significant subsidiary", if any, of Ventas, Inc., as such term is defined in Regulation S-X under the Securities Act.
Significant Subsidiary
(c) Solely for purposes of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes, the following terms shall have the indicated meanings:
"" means, for any period of time, the net income (loss) of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP for such period, before deductions for (without duplication):
Consolidated EBITDA
(1) Interest Expense;
(2) taxes;
(3) depreciation, amortization, and all other non-cash items, as determined reasonably and in good faith by Ventas, Inc., deducted in arriving at net income (loss);
(4) extraordinary items;
 
(5) non-recurring items or other unusual items, as determined reasonably and in good faith by Ventas, Inc. (including, without limitation, all prepayment penalties and all costs or fees incurred in connection with any debt financing or amendment thereto, acquisition, disposition, recapitalization or similar transaction (regardless of whether such transaction is completed));
(6) noncontrolling interests;
(7) income or expense attributable to transactions involving derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with GAAP; and
(8) gains or losses on dispositions of depreciable real estate investments, property valuation losses and impairment charges.
For purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA, all amounts shall be as determined reasonably and in good faith by Ventas, Inc., and in accordance with GAAP except to the extent that GAAP is not applicable with respect to the determination of all non-cash and non-recurring items.
"" means, with respect to any Person, collectively, the consolidated financial statements and notes to those financial statements, of that Person and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Financial Statements
"" means, as of any date, those liabilities of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries consisting of (without duplication) indebtedness for borrowed money, as determined in accordance with GAAP, that are or would be stated and quantified as contingent liabilities in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of Ventas, Inc. as of the date of determination.
Contingent Liabilities of Ventas, Inc. and Subsidiaries
"" has the meaning stated in the preamble.
Fourth Supplemental Indenture
"" means Ventas, Inc. and its successors and assigns; , however, that any Person constituting a Guarantor as described above shall cease to constitute a Guarantor when its Guarantee of the Notes is released in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
Guarantor
provided
"" means, as of any date, Debt to which the only parties are Ventas, Inc. and any of its Subsidiaries as of such date; , however, that with respect to any such Debt of which an Issuer or the Guarantor is the borrower, such debt is subordinate in right of payment to the Notes.
Intercompany Debt
provided
"" means, for any period of time, the aggregate amount of interest recorded in accordance with GAAP for such period by Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries, but excluding (i) interest reserves funded from the proceeds of any loan, (ii) prepayment penalties, (iii) amortization of deferred financing costs, and (iv) non-cash swap ineffectiveness charges, in all cases as reflected in the applicable Consolidated Financial Statements.
Interest Expense
 
"" has the meaning stated in the third recital of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Issuers
"" means May 17, 2011.
Issue Date
"" means, as of any date, the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of Ventas, Inc. for which Consolidated Financial Statements of Ventas, Inc. have been completed, it being understood that at any time when Ventas, Inc. is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act, and in accordance therewith files annual and quarterly reports with the Commission, the term "Latest Completed Quarter" shall be deemed to refer to the fiscal quarter covered by Ventas, Inc.'s most recently filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or, in the case of the last fiscal quarter of the year, Ventas, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Latest Completed Quarter
"" means, in connection with any optional redemption of the Notes, the excess, if any, of:
Make-Whole Amount
(1) the aggregate present value as of the date of such redemption of each dollar of principal being redeemed or paid and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption or accelerated payment) that would have been payable in respect of each such dollar if such redemption or accelerated payment had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semi-annual basis, such principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the third Business Day preceding the date a notice of redemption is given or declaration of acceleration is made) from the respective dates on which such principal and interest would have been payable if such redemption or payment had not been made, over
(2) the aggregate principal amount of the Notes being redeemed or paid.
"" has the meaning stated in Section 1.01 hereof.
Notes
"" means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Debt.
Obligations
"" means for any property owned by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries as of the date of determination, for any period of time, the net income (loss) derived from such property for such period, before deductions for (without duplication):
Property EBITDA
(1) Interest Expense;
(2) taxes;
(3) depreciation, amortization, and all other non-cash items, as determined reasonably and in good faith by Ventas, Inc., deducted in arriving at net income (loss);
 
(4) general and administrative expenses that are not allocated by management to a property segment, as reflected in Ventas, Inc.'s Consolidated Financial Statements available for the four (4) consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the Latest Completed Quarter;
(5) extraordinary items;
(6) non-recurring items or other unusual items, as determined reasonably and in good faith by Ventas, Inc. (including, without limitation, all prepayment penalties and all costs or fees incurred in connection with any debt financing or amendment thereto, acquisition, disposition, recapitalization or similar transaction (regardless of whether such transaction is completed));
(7) noncontrolling interests;
(8) income or expense attributable to transactions involving derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with GAAP; and
(9) property valuation losses and impairment charges;
in each case attributable to such property.
For purposes of calculating Property EBITDA, all amounts shall be determined reasonably and in good faith by Ventas, Inc., and in accordance with GAAP except to the extent that GAAP is not applicable with respect to the determination of all non-cash and non-recurring items.
Property EBITDA shall be adjusted (without duplication) to give pro forma effect:
(x) in the case of any assets having been placed-in-service or removed from service since the first day of the period to the date of determination, to include or exclude, as the case may be, any Property EBITDA earned or eliminated as a result of the placement of such assets in service or removal of such assets from service as if the placement of such assets in service or removal of such assets from service occurred as of the first day of the period; and
(y) in the case of any acquisition or disposition of any asset or group of assets since the first day of the period to the date of determination, including, without limitation, by merger, or stock or asset purchase or sale, to include or exclude, as the case may be, any Property EBITDA earned or eliminated as a result of the acquisition or disposition of those assets as if the acquisition or disposition occurred as of the first day of the period.
"" means 0.30% plus the arithmetic mean of the yields under the respective heading Week Ending published in the most recent Statistical Release under Treasury Constant Maturities for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the date of the principal being redeemed or paid. If no maturity exactly corresponds to such maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to such maturity shall be calculated pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence and the Reinvestment Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight-line basis, rounding in each of such relevant periods to the nearest month. For the purpose of calculating the Reinvestment Rate, the most recent Statistical Release published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount shall be used.
Reinvestment Rate
 
"" means, as of any date, that portion of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Debt of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries as of that date that is secured by a Lien on properties or other assets of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries.
Secured Debt
"" means, as of any date, a new construction or development Real Estate Asset at such date that, following the first four (4) consecutive fiscal quarters occurring after substantial completion of construction or development, either (i) an additional six (6) consecutive fiscal quarters have occurred or (ii) such Real Estate Asset is at least 90% leased, whichever shall first occur.
Stabilized Development Asset
"" means that statistical release designated H.15(519) or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Federal Reserve System and that establishes annual yields on actively traded United States government securities adjusted to constant maturities, or, if such statistical release is not published at the time of any determination under the Indenture, then such other reasonably comparable index the Issuers designate.
Statistical Release
"" means, with respect to any Person, a corporation, partnership association, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or other business entity which is required to be consolidated with such Person in accordance with GAAP.
Subsidiary
"" means, as of any date, in each case as determined reasonably and in good faith by Ventas, Inc., the sum of (without duplication):
Total Assets
(1) with respect to Real Estate Assets that were owned by Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries as of April 17, 2002 and that continue to be owned as of the date of determination, the annualized rental revenues specified for such Real Estate Assets on Schedule 1 attached to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, divided by 0.0900, plus any annualized incremental rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Assets as a result of, arising out of or in connection with annual rent escalations or rent reset rights of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries with respect to such Real Estate Assets (whether by agreement or exercise of such right or otherwise), divided by 0.0900; for the purpose of this clause (1), "annualized incremental rental revenue" in respect of a Real Estate Asset shall mean the increase in daily rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset as a result of, arising out of or in connection with such annual rent escalations or rent reset rights over the daily rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset immediately prior to the effective date of such increase, annualized by multiplying such daily increase by 365;
(2) with respect to all other Real Estate Assets owned by Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries as of the date of determination (except as set forth in clause (3) below), the cost (original cost plus capital improvements before depreciation and amortization) thereof, determined in accordance with GAAP;
 
(3) with respect to Stabilized Development Assets owned by Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries as of the date of determination, the aggregate sum of all Property EBITDA for such Stabilized Development Assets for the four (4) consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the Latest Completed Quarter divided by (i) 0.0900, in the case of a government reimbursed property and (ii) 0.0700 in all other cases; , however, that if the value of a particular Stabilized Development Asset calculated pursuant to this clause (3) is less than the cost (original cost plus capital improvements before depreciation and amortization) of such Real Estate Asset, as determined in accordance with GAAP, such cost shall be used in lieu thereof with respect to such Real Estate Asset;
provided
(4) the proceeds of the Debt, or the assets to be acquired in exchange for such proceeds, as the case may be, incurred since the end of the Latest Completed Quarter;
(5) mortgages and other notes receivable of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries, determined in accordance with GAAP;
(6) cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries but excluding all cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities securing, or applied to defease or discharge, in each case as of that date, any indebtedness, including mortgages and other notes payable (including cash deposited with a trustee with respect to third party indebtedness), all determined in accordance with GAAP; and
(7) all other assets of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries (excluding goodwill), determined in accordance with GAAP.
"" means, as of any date, in each case as determined reasonably and in good faith by Ventas, Inc., the sum of (without duplication):
Unencumbered Assets
(1) with respect to Real Estate Assets that were owned by Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries as of April 17, 2002 and that continue to be owned as of the date of determination, but excluding any such Real Estate Assets that are serving as collateral for Secured Debt, the annualized rental revenues specified for such Real Estate Assets on Schedule 1 attached to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, divided by 0.0900, plus any annualized incremental rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Assets as a result of, arising out of or in connection with annual rent escalations or rent reset rights of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries with respect to such Real Estate Assets (whether by agreement or exercise of such right or otherwise), divided by 0.0900; for the purpose of this clause (1), "annualized incremental rental revenue" in respect of a Real Estate Asset shall mean the increase in daily rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset as a result of, arising out of or in connection with such annual rent escalations or rent reset rights over the daily rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset immediately prior to the effective date of such increase, annualized by multiplying such daily increase by 365;
(2) with respect to all other Real Estate Assets owned by Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries as of the date of determination (except as set forth in clause (3) below), but excluding any such Real Estate Assets that are serving as collateral for Secured Debt, the cost (original cost plus capital improvements before depreciation and amortization) thereof, determined in accordance with GAAP;
 
(3) with respect to Stabilized Development Assets owned by Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries as of the date of determination, excluding any such Stabilized Development Assets that are serving as collateral for Secured Debt, the aggregate sum of all Property EBITDA for such Stabilized Development Assets for the four (4) consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the Latest Completed Quarter divided by (i) 0.0900, in the case of a government reimbursed property and (ii) 0.0700 in all other cases; , however, that if the value of a particular Stabilized Development Asset calculated pursuant to this clause (3) is less than the cost (original cost plus capital improvements before depreciation and amortization) of such Real Estate Asset, as determined in accordance with GAAP, such cost shall be used in lieu thereof with respect to such Real Estate Asset;
provided
(4) the proceeds of the Debt, or the assets to be acquired in exchange for such proceeds, as the case may be, incurred since the end of the Latest Completed Quarter;
(5) mortgages and other notes receivable of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries, except any mortgages or other notes receivable that are serving as collateral for Secured Debt, determined in accordance with GAAP;
(6) cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries but excluding all cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities securing, or applied to defease or discharge, in each case as of that date, any indebtedness, including mortgages and other notes payable (including cash deposited with a trustee with respect to third party indebtedness), all determined in accordance with GAAP; and
(7) all other assets of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries (excluding goodwill), other than assets pledged to secure Debt, determined in accordance with GAAP; , however, that Unencumbered Assets shall not include net real estate investments in unconsolidated joint ventures of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries.
provided
For the avoidance of doubt, cash held by a "qualified intermediary" in connection with proposed like-kind exchanges pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which may be classified as "restricted" for GAAP purposes shall nonetheless be included in clause (6) above, so long as Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries has the right to (i) direct the qualified intermediary to return such cash to Ventas, Inc. or such Subsidiary if and when Ventas, Inc. or such Subsidiary fails to identify or acquire the proposed like-kind property or at the end of the 180-day replacement period or (ii) direct the qualified intermediary to use such cash to acquire like-kind property.
 
"" means, as of any date, that portion of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Debt of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries as of that date that is neither Secured Debt nor Contingent Liabilities of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries.
Unsecured Debt
Section 2.01 . Pursuant to Sections 2.02(7) and 2.02(8) of the Base Indenture, Article 3 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by adding to the end the following new Sections 3.09 and 3.10, in each case to read as follows:
Amendment to Article 3
".
Section 3.09 Optional Redemption
(a) The Issuers may, at their option, redeem the Notes at any time prior to maturity, in whole or from time to time in part.
(b) The redemption price for any redemption of the Notes before March 1, 2021 shall be equal to the sum of (1) the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed, (2) accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date, and (3) the Make-Whole Amount, if any (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). The redemption price for any redemption of the Notes on or after March 1, 2021 shall be equal to the sum of (1) the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and (2) accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
(c) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.09 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.07 of the Indenture.
. The Issuers are not required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes."
Section 3.10 Mandatory Redemption
Section 3.01 .
Amendments to Article 4
(a) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Section 4.03 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by deleting the text thereof in its entirety and inserting in its place the following:
". Whether or not required by the Commission, so long as any Notes are outstanding, Ventas, Inc. shall file with the Trustee, within 15 days after it files the same with the Commission (or if not subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, within 15 days after it would have been required to file the same with the Commission had it been so subject):
Section 4.03 Reports
(1) all quarterly and annual financial information that is required to be contained in filings with the Commission on Forms 10-Q and 10-K, including a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and, with respect to the annual information only, a report on the annual financial statements by Ventas, Inc.'s certified independent accountants; and
 
(2) all current reports that are required to be filed with the Commission on Form 8-K.
For so long as any Notes remain outstanding, if at any time Ventas, Inc. is not required to file with the Commission the reports required by the preceding paragraph of this Section 4.03, Ventas, Inc. shall furnish to the Holders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
The availability of the foregoing materials on the Commission's website or on Ventas, Inc.'s website shall be deemed to satisfy the foregoing delivery obligations."
(b) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Section 4.04 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by deleting the text thereof in its entirety and inserting in its place the following:
". "Ventas, Inc. shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether Ventas, Inc. has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under the Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his or her knowledge, Ventas, Inc. has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in the Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of the Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action Ventas, Inc. is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto) and that to the best of his or her knowledge, no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Securities of any series is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action Ventas, Inc. is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. For purposes of this Section 4.04, such compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice under the Indenture."
Section 4.04 Compliance Certificate
 
(c) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Section 4.06 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by deleting the text thereof in its entirety and inserting in its place the following:
". Except as permitted by Article 5 and Section 10.04, Ventas, Inc. and the Issuers shall do all things necessary to preserve and keep their existence, rights and franchises; , however, that none of Ventas, Inc. or the Issuers shall be required to preserve any such right or franchise if Ventas, Inc. or such Issuer, as applicable, shall determine reasonably and in good faith that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of its business."
Section 4.06 Corporate Existence
provided
(d) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Article 4 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by adding to the end the following new Sections 4.07 through 4.11, in each case to read as follows:
". Ventas, Inc. will pay, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
Section 4.07 Taxes
. Each of Ventas, Inc. and the Issuers covenants (to the extent that they may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of the Indenture; and each of Ventas, Inc. and the Issuers (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
Section 4.08 Stay, Extension and Usury Laws
. Ventas Capital may not hold any material assets, become liable for any material obligations or engage in any significant business activities; , however, that Ventas Capital may be a co-obligor with respect to Debt if the Partnership is a primary obligor of such Debt and the net proceeds of such Debt are received by the Partnership or one or more of its Subsidiaries other than Ventas Capital.
Section 4.09 Restrictions on Activities of Ventas Capital
provided
 
.
Section 4.10 Limitations on Incurrence of Debt
(a) Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, Incur any Debt if, immediately after giving effect to the Incurrence of such additional Debt and any other Debt Incurred since the end of the Latest Completed Quarter and the application of the net proceeds therefrom, the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Debt would exceed 60% of the sum of (without duplication) (i) Total Assets as of the end of the Latest Completed Quarter and (ii) the purchase price of any Real Estate Assets or mortgages receivable acquired, and the amount of any securities offering proceeds received (to the extent such proceeds were not used to acquire Real Estate Assets or mortgages receivable or to reduce Debt), since the end of the Latest Completed Quarter.
(b) Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, Incur any Secured Debt if, immediately after giving effect to the Incurrence of such additional Secured Debt and any other Secured Debt Incurred since the end of the Latest Completed Quarter and the application of the net proceeds therefrom, the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Secured Debt would exceed 50% of the sum of (without duplication) (i) Total Assets as of the end of the Latest Completed Quarter and (ii) the purchase price of any Real Estate Assets or mortgages receivable acquired, and the amount of any securities offering proceeds received (to the extent such proceeds were not used to acquire Real Estate Assets or mortgages receivable or to reduce Debt), since the end of the Latest Completed Quarter.
(c) Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, Incur any Debt if, immediately after giving effect to the Incurrence of such additional Debt and any other Debt Incurred since the end of the Latest Completed Quarter and the application of the net proceeds therefrom, the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Interest Expense for the four (4) consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the Latest Completed Quarter would be less than 1.50 to 1.00 on a pro forma basis and calculated on the assumption (without duplication) that:
(i) the additional Debt and any other Debt Incurred by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries since the first day of such four-quarter period to the date of determination, which was outstanding at the date of determination, had been Incurred at the beginning of that period and continued to be outstanding throughout that period, and the application of the net proceeds of such Debt, including to refinance other Debt, had occurred at the beginning of such period; , that in determining the amount of Debt so Incurred, the amount of Debt under any revolving credit facility shall be computed based upon the average daily balance of such Debt during such period;
provided
 
(ii) the repayment or retirement of any other Debt repaid or retired by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries since the first day of such four-quarter period to the date of determination had occurred at the beginning of that period; , that in determining the amount of Debt so repaid or retired, the amount of Debt under any revolving credit facility shall be computed based upon the average daily balance of such Debt during such period; and
provided
(iii) in the case of any acquisition or disposition of any asset or group of assets (including, without limitation, by merger, or stock or asset purchase or sale) or the placement of any assets in service or removal of any assets from service by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries since the first day of such four-quarter period to the date of determination, the acquisition, disposition, placement in service or removal from service and any related repayment or refinancing of Debt had occurred as of the first day of such period, with the appropriate adjustments to Consolidated EBITDA and Interest Expense with respect to the acquisition, disposition, placement in service or removal from service being included in that pro forma calculation.
. Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries shall maintain at all times Unencumbered Assets of not less than 150% of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Unsecured Debt."
Section 4.11 Maintenance of Unencumbered Assets
Section 4.01 .
Amendments to Article 5
(a) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by deleting the text thereof in its entirety and inserting in its place the following:
".
Section 5.01 Merger, Consolidation, or Sale of Assets
Ventas, Inc. may not, directly or indirectly: (a) consolidate or merge with or into another Person (whether or not Ventas, Inc. is the surviving corporation); or (b) sell, assign, transfer, convey, lease (other than to an unaffiliated operator in the ordinary course of business) or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of Ventas, Inc. and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to another Person, unless:
(1) either:
(i) Ventas, Inc. is the surviving corporation; or
 
(ii) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than Ventas, Inc.) or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made is a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state of the United States or the District of Columbia;
(2) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than Ventas, Inc.) or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made assumes all of Ventas, Inc.'s obligations under the Notes and the Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee; and
(3) immediately after such transaction, on a pro forma basis giving effect to such transaction or series of transactions (and treating any obligation of Ventas, Inc. or any Subsidiary incurred in connection with or as a result of such transaction or series of transactions as having been incurred at the time of such transaction), no Default or Event of Default exists under the Indenture.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 5.01, the Guarantor may consolidate or merge with or into an Issuer, or sell and/or transfer to an Issuer all or substantially all of its assets, in each case, without compliance with any of the requirements set forth in this Article 5."
(b) Pursuant to Sections 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Article 5 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by adding to the end the following new Sections 5.03 and 5.04, in each case to read as follows:
".
Section 5.03 Assumption by the Guarantor
The Guarantor, or a Subsidiary thereof that is organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any State of the United States or the District of Columbia, may directly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and interest on all the Notes and the performance of every covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Issuer(s) to be performed or observed. Upon any such assumption, the Guarantor or such Subsidiary shall succeed to, and be substituted for and may exercise every right and power of, the Issuer(s) under the Indenture with the same effect as if the Guarantor or such Subsidiary had been named as the Issuer(s) herein and the Issuer(s) shall be released from liability as obligor on the Notes.
 
.
Section 5.04 Termination of the Guarantee
The obligations of the Guarantor under the Indenture shall terminate at such time the Guarantor merges or consolidates with an Issuer or at such other time as an Issuer acquires all of the assets and partnership interests of the Guarantor."
Section 5.01 .
Amendments to Article 6
(a) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by deleting the text thereof in its entirety and inserting in its place the following:
".
Section 6.01. Events of Default
Each of the following is an "Event of Default":
(1) Ventas, Inc. or the Issuers do not pay the principal or any premium on any Note when due and payable;
(2) Ventas, Inc. or the Issuers do not pay interest on any Note within 30 days after the applicable due date;
(3) Ventas, Inc. or its Subsidiaries remain in breach of any other term of the Indenture for 90 days after they receive a notice of Default stating they are in breach. Either the Trustee or the Holders of more than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding may send the notice;
(4) except as permitted by the Indenture and the Notes, the Securities Guarantee by the Guarantor shall cease to be in full force and effect or the Guarantor shall deny or disaffirm its obligations with respect thereto;
(5) the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries default under any of their indebtedness (including a default with respect to Securities of any series under the Indenture other than the Notes) in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50.0 million after the expiration of any applicable grace period, which default results in the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness. Such default is not an Event of Default if the other indebtedness is discharged, or the acceleration is rescinded or annulled, within a period of 30 days after the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any such Significant Subsidiary, as the case may be, receives notice specifying the default and requiring that they discharge the other indebtedness or cause the acceleration to be rescinded or annulled. Either the Trustee or the Holders of more than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding may send the notice;
 
(6) the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary:
(i) commence a voluntary case;
(ii) consent to the entry of an order for relief against them in an involuntary case;
(iii) consent to the appointment of a custodian of them or for all or substantially all of their property;
(iv) make a general assignment for the benefit of their creditors; or
(v) generally are not paying their debts as they become due; or
(7) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(i) is for relief against the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, in an involuntary case;
(ii) appoints a custodian of the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, or for all or substantially all of the property of the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; or
(iii) orders the liquidation of the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary;
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days."
(b) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Section 6.02 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by (i) deleting the first sentence thereof in its entirety and inserting in its place the following:
"In the case of an Event of Default specified in clause (6) or (7) of Section 6.01, with respect to the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, all Outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice."
 
and (ii) adding to the end of Section 6.02 the following:
"Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Indenture, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to a failure to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4.03 hereof shall consist exclusively of the right to receive additional interest on the Notes at an annual rate equal to 0.25% of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes. This additional interest will be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated interest payable on the Notes and will accrue on all Outstanding Notes from and including the date on which such Event of Default first occurs to, but not including, the date on which such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived."
(c) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Section 6.08 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by deleting from the first line thereof the reference to clause (3) of Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture.
Section 6.01 . Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, Section 7.07(e) of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by changing the references to Section 6.01(7) or (8) therein to Section 6.01(6) or (7).
Amendments to Article 7
Section 7.01 . Pursuant to Sections 2.02(17) and 8.01 of the Base Indenture, so long as any of the Notes are Outstanding, Sections 8.02 and 8.03 of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes.
Applicability of Defeasance Provisions
Section 7.02 . For the purposes of Sections 2.02(17) and 8.03 of the Base Indenture, Section 8.03 of the Base Indenture shall apply to Sections 4.09 through 4.11, inclusive.
Determinations Under Section 8.03
Section 7.03 . For the purposes of Sections 8.07 and 11.02 of the Base Indenture, the provisions of Section 8.07 of the Base Indenture shall apply to the Notes.
Determination Under Section 8.07
Section 7.04 .
Amendments to Article 8
(a) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, the last sentence of Section 8.03 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by changing the references to Sections 6.01(4) through 6.01(6) therein to Sections 6.01(3) through 6.01(5).
 
(b) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, clause (5) of Section 8.04 of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by deleting the text thereof in its entirety and inserting in its place the following:
"(5) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than the Indenture in respect of the Notes) to which any of Ventas, Inc. or the Issuers is a party or by which any of Ventas, Inc. or the Issuers is bound;"
(c) Pursuant to Section 2.02(14) of the Base Indenture, clause (2) of Section 8.07(c) of the Base Indenture is hereby amended with respect to the Notes by deleting the references to "Restricted Subsidiaries" and replacing such references with the word "Subsidiaries."
Section 8.01 .
Applicability of Guarantee Provisions
(a) Pursuant to Sections 2.02(1) and 10.01 of the Base Indenture, so long as any of the Notes are Outstanding, Article 10 shall be applicable to the Notes.
(b) To evidence its Guarantee in accordance with Section 10.03 of the Indenture, the Guarantor agrees that a notation of such Guarantee substantially in the form attached as hereto will be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and that the Indenture has been executed on behalf of such Guarantor by one of its Officers.
Exhibit B
Section 9.01 . For the purposes of Section 13.10 of the Base Indenture, the agreements of the Guarantor will bind its successors except as otherwise provided in Article 10 of the Base Indenture.
Determination Under Section 13.10
Section 9.02 .
Application of Fourth Supplemental Indenture; Ratification
(a) Each and every term and condition contained in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture that modifies, amends or supplements the terms and conditions of the Base Indenture shall apply only to the Notes created hereby and not to any future series of Securities established under the Indenture.
(b) The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as the same instrument.
(c) In the event of any conflict between this Fourth Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture, the provisions of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall prevail.
 
Section 9.03 . Nothing contained in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall or shall be construed to confer upon any Person other than a Holder of the Notes, the Issuers, the Guarantor or the Trustee any right or interest to avail itself of any benefit under any provision of the Base Indenture or this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Benefits of Fourth Supplemental Indenture
Section 9.04 . This Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be effective as of the date first above written and upon the execution and delivery hereof by each of the parties hereto.
Effective Date
Section 9.05 . This Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles thereof.
Governing Law
Section 9.06 . This Fourth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fourth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers hereunto duly authorized, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
CUSIP # 92276MAW5
promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars on June 1, 2021.
                    
Interest Payment Dates: June 1 and December 1
Record Dates: May 15 and November 15
Dated: , 20_____ 
                    
THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT () THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.07 OF THE INDENTURE, () THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.07(a) OF THE INDENTURE, () THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.12 OF THE INDENTURE AND (4) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ISSUERS.
1
2
3
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (""), TO THE ISSUERS OR THEIR AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
THIS NOTE IS ISSUED WITH ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT FOR PURPOSES OF SECTION 1271 ET SEQ. OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED. A HOLDER MAY OBTAIN THE ISSUE PRICE, AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT, ISSUE DATE AND YIELD TO MATURITY FOR SUCH NOTES BY SUBMITTING A REQUEST FOR SUCH INFORMATION TO THE ISSUERS AT THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS: C/O VENTAS, INC., 10350 ORMSBY PARK PLACE, SUITE 300, LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY 40223, ATTENTION: T. RICHARD RINEY, GENERAL COUNSEL
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture:
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee
 
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
(1) . Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "") promise to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 4.750% per annum from May 17, 2011 until maturity. The Issuers will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each, an ""). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from May 17, 2011; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be December 1, 2011. The Issuers will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at a rate that is 1% per annum in excess of the rate then in effect; the Issuers will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest
Issuers
Interest Payment Date
provided,
provided
further
(2) . The Issuers will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the May 15 or November 15 (each, a "") next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.13 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. The Notes will be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Issuers maintained for such purpose within or without the City and State of New York, or, at the option of the Issuers, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders; that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest and premium, if any, on all Global Notes and all other Notes the Holders of which will have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuers or the Paying Agent. Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
Record Date
provided,
(3) . Initially, U.S. Bank National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Issuers may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuers or any of their Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
(4) . The Issuers issued the Notes under an indenture, dated as of September 19, 2006 (the ""), as amended by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 17, 2011 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture and as the Base Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture may be further amended and supplemented from time to time, the ""), among the Issuers, the Guarantors named therein and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Notes are unsecured obligations of the Issuers.
Indenture
Base Indenture
Fourth Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
(5) . (a) The Issuers may, at their option, redeem the Notes at any time prior to maturity, in whole or from time to time in part.
Optional Redemption
(b) The redemption price for any redemption of the Notes before March 1, 2021 shall be equal to the sum of () the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed, () accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date, and (iii) the Make-Whole Amount, if any (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). The redemption price for any redemption of the Notes on or after March 1, 2021 shall be equal to the sum of () the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and () accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date.
i
ii
i
ii
(c) Any redemption of the Notes shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.07 of the Indenture.
(6) .
Mandatory Redemption
The Issuers will not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes.
(7) . Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
Notice of Redemption
(8) . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Issuers may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Issuers need not exchange or register the transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Issuers need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a Record Date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
(9) . The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
(10) . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture, the Securities Guarantee or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities affected by such amendment or supplemental indenture voting as a single class, and any existing Default or Event of Default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture, the Securities Guarantee or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities affected thereby voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture, the Securities Guarantee or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes; to provide for the assumption of the Issuers' obligations to Holders of Notes in the case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Issuers' assets; add additional Guarantees with respect to the Notes; secure the Notes; to make any other change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder; or to comply with requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the applicable Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
(11) . Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default in the payment of principal or any premium on the Notes when due and payable; (ii) default in the payment of interest on the Notes within 30 days after the applicable due date; (iii) breach of any other term of the Indenture for 90 days after receipt of a notice of Default stating the Issuers are in breach; (iv) default under any of certain Debt of the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. and its Significant Subsidiaries, which default results in the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness, unless such other Debt is discharged, or the acceleration is rescinded or annulled, within 30 days after the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or its Significant Subsidiaries, as applicable, receive notice of the default; and (v) certain events in bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization occur with respect to the Issuers, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare the entire principal amount of the Notes to be due and payable; that the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to a failure to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4.03 of the Indenture shall consist exclusively of the right to receive additional interest on the Notes in accordance with the terms set forth in the Indenture.
Defaults and Remedies
provided,
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all Outstanding Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest) if and so long as it determines that withholding notice is in the interest of the Holders of the Notes. Subject to certain exceptions, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes. The Issuers are required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture.
(12) . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Issuers or their Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Issuers or its Affiliates as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Issuers
(13) . No director, officer, employee or stockholder of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries under the Notes or the Indenture based on, in respect of, or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The foregoing waiver and release are an integral part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
(14) . This Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
(15) . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
(16) . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuers have caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP Numbers
 
The Issuers will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership Ventas Capital Corporation c/o Ventas, Inc. 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300 Louisville, Kentucky 40223 Attention: General Counsel
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
and irrevocably appoint to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuers. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                     
                    
                    
                     
Date:
                    
Signature Guarantee*:
                    
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
For value received, the Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to) has unconditionally guaranteed to the extent set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, an indenture dated as of September 19, 2006 (the ""), as amended by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 17, 2011 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture and as the Base Indenture and the Fourth Supplemental Indenture may be further amended and supplemented from time to time, the "") among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the ""), the Guarantor named therein and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), providing for the issuance of 4.750% Senior Notes due 2021, () the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes (as defined in the Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Issuers to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and () in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligation of the Guarantor to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Securities Guarantee and the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article 10 of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Securities Guarantee. Each Holder of a Note, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions.
Base Indenture
Fourth Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Issuers
Trustee
a
b

Exhibit 10.1
LOAN AGREEMENT, dated as of May 17, 2011 (this ), between NATIONWIDE HEALTH PROPERTIES, INC., a Maryland corporation (with its successors, the ), and VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (with its successors, the ).
"Agreement"
"Borrower"
"Lender"
1. . As used herein, the following terms have the following meanings:
Certain Definitions
means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed.
"Business Day"
means at any time any lease of Property which, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, would at such time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet of the lessee.
"Capital Lease"
means at any time the amount of the liability in respect of a Capital Lease which, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, would at such time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet of the lessee.
"Capital Lease Obligation"
means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Exchange Act and the rules of the Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof) other than a Permitted Acquiror, of Equity Interests representing more than 40% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Borrower; (b) a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Borrower do not constitute Continuing Directors; (c) the acquisition of direct or indirect Control of the Borrower by any Person or group other than a Permitted Acquiror; or (d) the Borrower completes a share exchange, consolidation, merger, sale of all or substantially all of its assets or similar transaction, in each case, other than a share exchange, consolidation or merger in which the Permitted Acquiror or the holders of the Borrower's Equity Interests entitled to vote in the election of the board of directors of the Borrower generally immediately prior to the share exchange, consolidation or merger have, directly or indirectly, at least 60% of the total voting power in the aggregate of all classes of Equity Interests of the Borrower or, if such entity is not the Borrower, the continuing or surviving entity entitled to vote in the election of the board of directors of such Person generally immediately after the share exchange, consolidation or merger.
"Change of Control"
means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act.
"Commission"
 
means (a) any member of the board of directors of the Borrower who was a director (or comparable manager) of the Borrower on the date hereof, and (b) any individual who becomes a member of the board of directors of the Borrower after the date hereof if such individual was appointed or nominated for election to the board of directors of the Borrower by a majority of the Continuing Directors, but excluding any such individual originally proposed for election in opposition to the board of directors in office at the date hereof in an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the directors (or comparable managers) of the Borrower and whose initial assumption of office resulted from such contest or the settlement thereof.
"Continuing Director"
means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto.
"Control"
means a condition that, after notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
"Default"
means, with respect to any prepayment of the Loan, an amount equal to the difference between (a) the amount of interest actually accrued on the portion of the Loan being repaid from the date of this Agreement through the date of such prepayment (exclusive of any interest due by virtue of Section 4(b)) and (b) the amount of interest that would have accrued on such portion of the Loan during such period of time if the interest rate referred to in Section 4(a) had been 2.50%.
"Discount Amount"
means, for any period, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, the sum of net income (or net loss) for such period plus, the sum of all amounts treated as expenses for: (a) interest, (b) depreciation, (c) amortization, (d) all accrued taxes on or measured by income to the extent included in the determination of such net income (or net loss) and (e) any noncash charge resulting from a change in accounting principles; provided, however, that net income (or net loss) shall be computed without giving effect to extraordinary losses or gains and without taking into account any provision for gains, losses or impairments on properties.
"EBITDA"
means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest.
"Equity Interests"
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
 
, when used with respect to any Person, means as of any date of determination thereof, (i) its Indebtedness, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, which by its terms matures more than one year after the date of calculation, and any such Indebtedness maturing within one year from such date which is renewable or extendable at the option of the obligor to a date more than one year from such date, and (ii) the current portion of all such Indebtedness.
"Funded Indebtedness"
means any federal, state, municipal, national or other government, governmental department, commission, board, bureau, court, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or any entity, officer or examiner exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to any government or any court, in each case whether associated with a state of the United States, the United States, or a foreign entity or government.
"Governmental Authority"
, when used with respect to any Person means its (i) indebtedness, secured or unsecured, for borrowed money; (ii) liabilities secured by any Lien existing on Property owned by such Person; (iii) Capital Lease Obligations, and the present value of all payments due under any arrangement for retention of title (discounted at a rate per annum equal to 5.00% and compounded semi-annually) if such arrangement is in substance an installment purchase or an arrangement for the retention of title for security purposes; and (iv) guarantees of obligations of the character specified in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) to the full extent of the liability of the guarantor (discounted to the present value, as provided in the foregoing clause (iii), in the case of guarantees of title retention arrangements).
"Indebtedness"
as of any date means the ratio of (a) EBITDA to (b) Interest Expense; all of the foregoing calculated by reference to the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters of the Borrower most recently ended prior to such date of determination.
"Interest Coverage Ratio"
means, for any period, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of all interest in respect of Indebtedness of the Borrower accrued during such period.
"Interest Expense"
 
means any interest in Property securing an obligation owed to, or a claim by, a Person other than the owner of the Property, whether such interest is based on the common law, statute or contract, and including but not limited to the security interest lien arising from a mortgage, encumbrance, pledge, conditional sale or trust receipt or a lease, consignment or bailment for security purposes. The term "Lien" shall include reservations, exceptions, encroachments, easements, rights-of-way, covenants, conditions, restrictions, leases and all other title exceptions and encumbrances affecting Property, but will not apply to (1) any liens securing the performance of any contract or undertaking of the Borrower not directly or indirectly in connection with the borrowing of money, obtaining of advances or credit or the securing of debts, if made and continuing in the ordinary course of business, (2) any lien in favor of the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia, or any agency, department or other instrumentality thereof, to secure progress, advance, or other payments pursuant to any contract or provision of any statute, (3) mechanics', materialmen's, carriers', or other like liens arising in the ordinary course of business (including construction of facilities) in respect of obligations which are not due or which are being contested in good faith, (4) any lien arising by reason of deposits with, or the giving of any form of security to, any governmental agency or any body created or approved by law or governmental regulation, which is required by law or governmental regulation as a condition to the transaction of any business, or the exercise of any privilege, franchise or license, (5) any liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies not yet delinquent, or liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies already delinquent but the validity of which is being contested in good faith, (6) liens (including judgment liens) arising in connection with legal proceedings so long as such proceedings are being contested in good faith and in the case of judgment liens, execution thereof is stayed, and (7) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), as a whole or in part, of any lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (1) to (6) inclusive; provided, however, that the amount of any and all obligations and indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the amount thereof so secured immediately prior to the time of such extension, renewal or replacement and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the Property which secured the charge or lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such Property). For all purposes of this Agreement, the Borrower shall be deemed to be the owner of any Property which it has acquired or holds subject to a conditional sale agreement, Capital Lease or other arrangement pursuant to which title to the Property has been retained by or vested in some other Person for security purposes.
"Lien"
means a loan with a principal amount of $600,000,000.00 made pursuant to Section 2.
"Loan"
means October 31, 2012.
"Mandatory Prepayment Date"
"means the tenth anniversary hereof, or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day.
Maturity Date"
means the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 27, 2011, by and among Ventas, Needles Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and the Borrower.
"Merger Agreement"
" means Ventas or any wholly owned Subsidiary of Ventas.
"Permitted Acquiror
 
means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Person"
means any interest in any kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible.
"Property"
" means that, with respect to any Person, (a) the sum of such Person's debt (including contingent liabilities) does not exceed the present fair saleable value of such Person's present assets; (b) such Person's capital is not unreasonably small in relation to its business as conducted on the date hereof or proposed to be conducted after the date hereof; and (c) such Person has not incurred and does not intend to incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they become due (whether at maturity or otherwise).
"Solvent
or means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or trust more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Borrower and one or more other Subsidiaries.
"Subsidiary"
"Subsidiaries"
means, on any date, the sum of (i) Undepreciated Real Estate Assets and (ii) all other assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (but excluding intangibles).
"Total Assets"
means, on any date, the sum of (i) the value of those Undepreciated Real Estate Assets that are not subject to any Lien which secures Indebtedness for borrowed money of any of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and (ii) the value of all other assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries not subject to any Lien securing Indebtedness for borrowed money of any of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (but excluding intangibles) after eliminating intercompany accounts and transactions.
"Total Unencumbered Assets"
means, on any date, the cost (original cost plus capital improvements) of any real estate assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, before depreciation and amortization, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
"Undepreciated Real Estate Assets"
means Funded Indebtedness less Indebtedness secured by Liens on the Property or assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
"Unsecured Debt"
means Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
"Ventas"
 
means stock or other interests evidencing ownership in a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or trust which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, or other persons performing equivalent functions, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
"Voting Stock"
2. . The Lender hereby agrees to make the Loan to the Borrower on the first Business Day immediately following the date hereof.
Loan
3. . The Borrower shall pay to the Lender the outstanding principal amount of the Loan on the Maturity Date, together with all accrued and unpaid interest on the Loan.
Repayment of Loan
4. . (a) The outstanding principal amounts of the Loan shall bear interest at the rate of 5.00% per annum from the date of this Agreement, or from the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid. The Borrower shall pay interest on the Loan to the Lender semi-annually, in arrears, on the date that is two Business Days prior to June 1 of each year and the date that is two Business Days prior to December 1 of each year (each, an ) commencing the date that is two Business Days prior to December 1, 2011. Accrued interest will also be payable on the date of maturity or any earlier date of repayment of the Loan. Interest on the Loan will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest Rate
"Interest Payment Date"
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in the case of any overdue amounts of principal or interest, the Borrower shall pay interest on such overdue amounts, on demand by the Lender, at the rate of 7.00% per annum.
5. . The proceeds of the Loan will be used by the Borrower to repay outstanding amounts under its existing revolving credit facility, to acquire properties and for other corporate purposes.
Use of Proceeds
6. . The Borrower will have the right at any time to prepay the Loan in whole or in part without premium or penalty at any time and from time to time, provided that any such prepayment shall be accompanied by all accrued but unpaid interest on the principal amount being prepaid. Upon any prepayment under this Section 6, unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower shall receive a credit equal to the Discount Amount with respect to such prepayment, and such credit shall be applied to such prepayment; provided that the Borrower shall only receive such credit if such prepayment occurs after the Outside Date (as defined in the Merger Agreement).
Voluntary Prepayments
 
7. . The Borrower shall prepay the Loan in whole, including accrued and unpaid interest, on the earlier of (a) the occurrence of a Change of Control or (b) the Mandatory Prepayment Date if the Closing Date (as defined in the Merger Agreement) has not occurred on or before the Outside Date (as defined in the Merger Agreement). Upon any prepayment under clause (a) or (b) of the immediately preceding sentence, unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower shall receive a credit equal to the Discount Amount with respect to such prepayment, and such credit shall be applied to such prepayment.
Mandatory Prepayments
8. The Borrower will pay all amounts due hereunder free and clear of and without reduction for any taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, withholding or charges and without set-off or counterclaim, in U.S. dollars available the same day in Chicago, Illinois. Payments received that are insufficient to pay amounts then due shall be applied to indemnification obligations to the Lender, to interest then due and payable and to principal repayment amounts then due.
General Provisions Regarding Payments.
first
second
third
9. In order to induce the Lender to make the Loan, the Borrower represents and warrants to the Lender that:
Representation and Warranties.
(a) The Borrower is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement are within the Borrower's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action.
(c) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement do not and will not (i) violate (x) any material law or governmental rule or regulation applicable to the Borrower, (y) the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Borrower, or (z) any order, judgment or decree of any court or other agency of government binding on the Borrower; (ii) conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (with due notice or lapse of time or both) a default under any material contractual obligation of the Borrower; (iii) result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of the Borrower; or (iv) require any approval of stockholders, members or partners or any approval or consent of any Person under any contractual obligation of the Borrower, or any registration with, consent or approval of, or notice to, or other action to, with or by, any Governmental Authority except for such approvals or consents which have been obtained on or before the date hereof.
(d) This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
 
(e) On the date hereof the Borrower is Solvent.
(f) No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
10. So long as any amount is outstanding under this Agreement, unless compliance shall have been waived in writing, in advance, by the Lender, the Borrower agrees that:
Covenants.
(a) . The Borrower shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, and the Borrower shall not permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the Borrower or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to the Borrower, unless: (1) in case the Borrower shall consolidate with or merge into another Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Borrower is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or trust, shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, in writing, executed and delivered to the Lender, in form satisfactory to the Lender, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Loan and the performance of every covenant and other obligation under this Agreement on the part of the Borrower to be performed or observed, and (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing. Upon any consolidation by the Borrower with or merger by the Borrower into any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety in accordance with this Section 10(a), the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Borrower is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Borrower under this Agreement with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Borrower herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Agreement.
Merger, Consolidation, etc. Only on Certain Terms
(b) . Subject to Section 10(a), the Borrower will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence and the rights (charter and statutory) and franchises of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; that the Borrower shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if it shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and/or any Subsidiary and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respects to the Lender.
Corporate Existence
provided, however,
 
(c) . The Borrower will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Borrower or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; that the Borrower shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims
provided, however,
(d) .
Statement by Officers as to Default
(i) The Borrower shall deliver to the Lender, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a written statement (which need not be contained in or accompanied by an officers' certificate) signed by the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Borrower, stating that (x) a review of the activities of the Borrower during such year and of performance under this Agreement has been made under his or her supervision, and (y) to the best of his or her knowledge, based on such review, (a) the Borrower has complied with all the conditions and covenants imposed on it under this Agreement throughout such year, or, if there has been a default in the fulfillment of any such condition or covenant, specifying each such default known to him or her and the nature and status thereof, and (b) no event has occurred and is continuing which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default, or, if such an event has occurred and is continuing, specifying each such event known to him or her and the nature and status thereof.
(ii) The Borrower shall deliver to the Lender, within five business days after the occurrence thereof, written notice of any event which after notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default.
(e) . The Borrower will not pledge or otherwise subject to any Lien, any of its Property or assets; , that such covenant will not apply to Liens securing obligations which do not in the aggregate at any one time outstanding exceed 40% of the sum of (i) the Total Assets of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of the calendar year or quarter covered in the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as the case may be, most recently filed with the Commission (or, if such filing is not permitted under the Exchange Act, with the Lender) prior to the incurrence of such additional Liens and (ii) the purchase price of any real estate assets or mortgages receivable acquired, and the amount of any securities offering proceeds received (to the extent that such proceeds were not used to acquire real estate assets or mortgages receivable or used to reduce Indebtedness), by the Borrower or any Subsidiary since the end of such calendar quarter, including those proceeds obtained in connection with the incurrence of such additional Liens.
Limitation on Liens
provided, however
 
(f) . The Borrower will at all times maintain Total Unencumbered Assets of not less than 150% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Unsecured Debt of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Limitation on Total Unencumbered Assets
(g) . The Borrower will not create, assume, incur or otherwise become liable in respect of, any Indebtedness if the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Indebtedness of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries is, at the time of such creation, assumption or incurrence and after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent transactions, greater than 60% of the sum of (i) the Total Assets of the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the end of the calendar year or quarter covered in the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as the case may be, most recently filed with the Commission (or, if such filing is not permitted under the Exchange Act, with the Lender) prior to the incurrence of such additional Indebtedness and (ii) the purchase price of any real estate assets or mortgages receivable acquired, and the amount of any securities offering proceeds received (to the extent that such proceeds were not used to acquire real estate assets or mortgages receivable or used to reduce Indebtedness), by the Borrower or any Subsidiary since the end of such calendar year or quarter, including those proceeds obtained in connection with the incurrence of such additional Indebtedness.
Limitation on Indebtedness
(h) . The Borrower will not incur any Indebtedness if, on a consolidated basis, the Interest Coverage Ratio on the date on which such additional Indebtedness is to be incurred, on a pro forma basis, after giving effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness and to the application of the proceeds thereof, would have been less than 1.50 to 1.00.
Interest Coverage Ratio
11. If any of the following events (each, an ) shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default.
"Event of Default"
(a) default in the payment of any interest on the Loan when such interest becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(b) default in the payment of principal of the Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable; or
(c) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Borrower under this Agreement (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Borrower by the Lender a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "NOTICE OF DEFAULT" hereunder; or
 
(d) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (a) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Borrower in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (b) a decree or order adjudging the Borrower as bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Borrower under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Borrower or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(e) the commencement by the Borrower of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Borrower in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Borrower or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Borrower in furtherance of any such action; or
(f) a Change of Control shall occur;
, in the case of any Event of Default specified above, the Lender may, by written notice to the Borrower, declare the Loan to be forthwith due and payable, together with accrued interest, whereupon the same shall become forthwith due and payable, without demand, protest, presentment, notice of dishonor or any other notice or demand whatsoever, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if any Event of Default described under Section 11(f) above occurs prior to the Mandatory Prepayment Date, the Borrower shall immediately pay to the Lender an amount equal to any and all Discount Amounts credited to the Borrower under this Agreement, which provisions shall survive any prior payment of the Loan or amounts outstanding hereunder.
then
 
12. . Any notice to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier to the address or telecopier number specified on the signature page hereto. Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service or mailed by certified or registered mail shall be deemed to have been duly given when received by the recipient. Notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient).
Notices
13. No delay on the part of the Lender in exercising any of its powers or rights, and no partial or single exercise, shall constitute a waiver thereof.
No Waiver.
14. Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived, but only if such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed by the Lender and the Borrower.
Amendments and Waivers.
15. This Agreement shall be binding upon the Borrower and its successors and assigns, for the benefit of the Lender and its successors and assigns, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the Lender. The Lender may transfer all or a portion of the Loan to any wholly owned Subsidiary of the Lender.
Successors and Assigns.
16. . (a) The Borrower agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Lender, and any of its participants, parent corporations, subsidiary corporations, affiliated corporations, successor corporations, and all present and future officers, directors, employees and agents of the foregoing (the "), from and against (i) any and all transfer taxes, documentary taxes, assessments or charges made by any governmental authority by reason of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the making of the Loan, and (ii) any and all liabilities, losses, damages, penalties, judgments, suits, claims, costs and expenses of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceedings, whether or not such Indemnitee shall be designated a party thereto, which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against such Indemnitee, in any manner relating to or arising out of or in connection with the making of the Loan and this Agreement or the use or intended use of the proceeds of the Loan (the ); provided, however, that the Borrower shall not have any indemnification obligations with respect to any liabilities, losses, damages, penalties, judgments, suits, claims, costs or expenses of the Lender which arise out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Lender. If any investigative, judicial or administrative proceeding arising from any of the foregoing is brought against any Indemnitee, upon request of such Indemnitee, the Borrower, or counsel designated by the Borrower and reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee, will resist and defend such action, suit or proceeding to the extent and in the manner directed by the Indemnitee, at the Borrower's sole cost and expense. Each Indemnitee will use its reasonable best efforts to cooperate in the defense of any such action, suit or proceeding. If the foregoing undertaking to indemnify, defend and hold harmless may be held to be unenforceable because it violates any law or public policy, the Borrower shall nevertheless make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction of each of the Indemnified Liabilities which is permissible under applicable law. The obligations of the Borrower under this Section 16 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the discharge of the Borrower's other obligations under this Agreement.
Indemnity
Indemnitees"
"Indemnified Liabilities"
 
(b) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against the Lender and its affiliates, directors, employees, attorneys, agents or sub-agents, on any theory of liability, including, without limitation, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, as a result of or related to, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or referred to herein, the transactions contemplated hereby, the Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.
17. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of law principles thereof.
Governing Law.
18. The Borrower and, by its acceptance of this Agreement, the Lender, each agree as follows:
Submission to Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process.
(a) each such party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any relevant appellate court, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each such party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court; that nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Lender or the Borrower may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the other party or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction;
provided
(b) each such party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in Section 18(a), and each such party also irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court; and
 
(c) each such party irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 12. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
19. . THE BORROWER HEREBY WAIVES AND, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE LENDER HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
20. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.


