FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20110708180427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Introductory Note.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed in connection with the consummation on July 1, 2011 of the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 27, 2011 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), Needles Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub"), and Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation ("NHP"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, on July 1, 2011, NHP merged with and into Merger Sub (the "Merger"), with Merger Sub continuing as the surviving entity with the name "Nationwide Health Properties, LLC." The events described in this Current Report on Form 8-K occurred in connection with the consummation of the Merger.
The disclosures contained in "Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant" and "Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers" of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
On July 1, 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of NHP pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement and thereby acquired NHP's portfolio of properties, including mortgage loans and properties owned by NHP's unconsolidated joint ventures. At the effective time of the Merger, NHP merged with and into Merger Sub, with Merger Sub continuing as the surviving entity and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company with the name "Nationwide Health Properties, LLC." At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of NHP common stock, par value $0.10 per share (other than shares owned by any wholly owned subsidiary of NHP, the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, which shares were cancelled), was converted into the right to receive 0.7866 shares (the "Exchange Ratio") of Company common stock, par value $0.25 per share ("Common Stock"), with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. The Company issued approximately 99.7 million shares of Common Stock as Merger consideration.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on July 1, 2011 announcing the completion of the Merger is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference.
Guaranty of Term Loan
In connection with the consummation of the Merger, on July 1, 2011, the Company entered into a Guaranty Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Guaranty Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company guaranteed the obligations of NHP under the Term Loan Agreement, dated as of June 3, 2011 (the "Term Loan Agreement"), among NHP, the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. The Term Loan Agreement provides for commitments for up to $800 million of senior unsecured term loans available from time to time on a non-revolving basis, subject to customary conditions. Loans outstanding under the Term Loan Agreement mature on June 1, 2012.
The foregoing description of the Term Loan Agreement and the Guaranty Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Term Loan Agreement and the Guaranty Agreement, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 and are incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
Mortgage Loans
As a result of the Merger, the Company assumed approximately $410.4 million aggregate principal amount of existing mortgage indebtedness of NHP. The mortgage loans are collateralized by a total of 52 underlying properties, bear interest either at fixed rates ranging from 4.40% to 8.63% per annum or at variable rates ranging from 0.65% to 2.45% per annum (as of June 30, 2011), and have remaining maturities ranging from approximately six months to 25.4 years.
Senior Notes
As a result of the Merger, the Company assumed approximately $991.7 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding unsecured senior notes of NHP. The senior notes bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 6.00% to 8.25% per annum and mature between July 15, 2011 and July 7, 2038.
Appointment of Directors
Effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the size of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") was increased from ten to 13 and three former directors of NHP were appointed to the Board: Douglas M. Pasquale, Richard I. Gilchrist and Robert D. Paulson.
Under the terms of the Ventas, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan for Directors, on their initial appointment to the Board, Messrs. Gilchrist and Paulson each received a grant of 2,524 shares of restricted stock of the Company, which shares vest one-half on the first anniversary of the date of grant and one-half on the second anniversary of the date of grant, and options to purchase 2,520 shares of Common Stock having an exercise price of $53.74, which options vest one-half on the date of grant and one-half on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Mr. Pasquale, as an employee of the Company, is not entitled to receive compensation for his service as a director. See " Employment Agreement with Douglas M. Pasquale" below.
Mr. Gilchrist serves as the President of The Irvine Company's Investment Properties Group, which owns the building in which NHP's headquarters prior to the consummation of the Merger were located. In 2010, NHP paid approximately $536,000 in rent to The Irvine Company. Following consummation of the Merger, Merger Sub continues to rent office space in this building from The Irvine Company.
Employment Agreement with Douglas M. Pasquale
In connection with the Merger, the Company entered into a letter agreement (the "Pasquale Employment Agreement") with Mr. Pasquale, effective July 1, 2011, pursuant to which he will serve as a member of the Board and Senior Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Upon the consummation of the Merger, the Pasquale Employment Agreement superseded the Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between NHP and Mr. Pasquale, effective as of October 28, 2008 (the "Old Employment Agreement"), in all respects, except as otherwise explicitly set forth in the Pasquale Employment Agreement. Pursuant to the Pasquale Employment Agreement, the term of Mr. Pasquale's employment with the Company (the "Term") commenced as of the consummation of the Merger and terminates on December 31, 2011, or earlier in accordance with the terms of the Pasquale Employment Agreement.
During the Term, Mr. Pasquale will receive: (1) a base salary at an annual rate of $700,000; (2) a supplemental salary in the form of an additional cash payment at an annual rate of $180,000; (3) incentive compensation in the amount of $4,320,000, in consideration of the noncompetition and non-solicitation restrictive covenants referred to below and services to be provided to the Company payable promptly following the earlier of (i) December 31, 2011, subject to Mr. Pasquale's continued employment with the Company through such date, or (ii) termination either by the Company without Cause (as defined in the Pasquale Employment Agreement) or due to death or disability during the Term; and (4) certain other benefits and perquisites, on terms no less favorable than what Mr. Pasquale was entitled to during the year immediately preceding the Merger. The Pasquale Employment Agreement further provides that at or immediately following the consummation of the Merger, with respect to Mr. Pasquale's 2009 and 2010 NHP performance share awards, Mr. Pasquale will receive a number of shares of Common Stock (subject to adjustment for the Exchange Ratio) equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the Applicable Percentage (as defined in the applicable performance share award agreements) of shares issuable under his outstanding 2009 and 2010 NHP performance share awards or (ii) the actual number of shares issuable under his outstanding 2009 and 2010 NHP performance share awards based on NHP's actual performance for a shortened performance period terminating immediately prior to the consummation of the Merger. In the preceding clause (4), the excess of 100% of the Applicable Percentage over the actual number of shares issuable is in consideration of the noncompetition and non-solicitation restrictive covenants referred to below.
 
Upon Mr. Pasquale's termination of employment with the Company for any reason, he will be entitled to receive substantially the same severance payments and benefits that he would have received under the Old Employment Agreement, as if he had resigned for "Good Reason" (as defined in the Old Employment Agreement) immediately prior to the consummation of the Merger. Pursuant to the Pasquale Employment Agreement, Mr. Pasquale and the Company agreed that such severance payments and benefits shall be, each in accordance with the terms of the Old Employment Agreement: (i) cash severance of $5,881,250, payable over the three-year period following his termination of employment; (ii) a lump-sum cash payment of $168,600 in lieu of certain perquisites he would have received for a three-year period following his termination of employment; (iii) an amount equal to the annual bonus he would have earned for 2011 had he remained employed, prorated for the period ending on the consummation of the Merger; (iv) for a period of three years following his termination of employment, medical and life insurance coverage on terms no less favorable than what Mr. Pasquale was entitled to during the year immediately preceding the Merger; (v) vesting of previously unvested equity awards, including stock options, restricted stock units and any applicable dividend equivalent rights granted to Mr. Pasquale by NHP in February 2011 and which were assumed by the Company in connection with the Merger; (vi) payment of performance-based dividend equivalent rights previously earned for a period of three years following his termination of employment; and (vii) payment of compensation previously deferred by Mr. Pasquale.
In addition, in the event that Mr. Pasquale becomes subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, on account of such severance payments, Mr. Pasquale would be entitled to receive an additional payment to place him in the same after-tax position as if no Section 4999 excise tax had been imposed.
In consideration for certain of the payments and benefits set forth above, Mr. Pasquale has agreed to certain non-competition and non-solicitation restrictive covenants during the Term and thereafter until June 30, 2012, provided that, on or after January 1, 2012, Mr. Pasquale will have the option to terminate the non-competition restrictive covenant by making a lump-sum cash payment of $8 million to the Company.
The foregoing description of the Pasquale Employment Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Pasquale Employment Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
Charter Amendment
On July 1, 2011, at a special meeting for which proxies were solicited pursuant to a Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2011, stockholders approved an amendment (the "Charter Amendment") to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as previously amended (the "Charter"), to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock. Pursuant to the Charter Amendment, the number of authorized shares of capital stock of the Company was increased from 310,000,000 to 610,000,000 and the number of authorized shares of Common Stock was increased from 300,000,000 to 600,000,000, effective July 1, 2011.
The foregoing description of the Charter Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Certificate of Amendment of the Charter, as adopted and effective on July 1, 2011, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated in this Item 5.03 by reference.
 
Bylaws Amendment
On July 1, 2011, in connection with the consummation of the Merger, the Board approved an amendment (the "Bylaws Amendment") to the Company's Fourth Amended and Restated Bylaws to increase the maximum number of directors allowed to serve on the Board at any one time from 11 to 13.
The foregoing description of the Bylaws Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Bylaws Amendment, as adopted and effective on July 1, 2011, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2 and incorporated in this Item 5.03 by reference.
(a) .
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired
The audited consolidated financial statements of NHP as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of NHP as of March 31, 2011 and for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3, respectively, and are incorporated in this Item 9.01(a) by reference.
(b) .
Pro Forma Financial Information
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010, giving effect to the Merger and the Company's acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. and certain of its affiliated entities (including One Lantern Senior Living Inc), are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.4 and incorporated in this Item 9.01(b) by reference.
(c)
Shell Company Transactions.
Not applicable.
(d)
Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
Ventas, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), does hereby certify as follows:
Corporation
FIRST: That, in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "") duly adopted resolutions setting forth a proposed amendment (this "") to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as previously amended, declaring this Amendment advisable and calling a special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for consideration of, among other things, this Amendment. The resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows:
DGCL
Board
Amendment
RESOLVED, that the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation shall be further amended by deleting the first paragraph of Article IV thereof in its entirety and by substituting in lieu thereof the following:
"The total number of shares of stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 610,000,000 shares, of which 600,000,000 shall be shares of common stock, having a par value of twenty-five cents per share (the "Common Shares"), and 10,000,000 shall be shares of preferred stock, having a par value of one dollar per share (the "Preferred Shares"). The designations, voting powers and relative rights and preferences of the two classes of shares of stock shall be as set forth below."
SECOND: That thereafter, pursuant to resolution of the Board, a special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation was duly called and held upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the DGCL, at which meeting the necessary number of shares as required by the DGCL were voted in favor of this Amendment.
THIRD: That this Amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the DGCL.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by a duly authorized officer this 1 day of July, 2011.
st

Exhibit 3.2
Pursuant to resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), on July 1, 2011, the Fourth Amended and Restated By-Laws (the "By-Laws") of the Corporation were amended as follows:
Article III, Section 3.2 of the By-Laws is amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of July 1, 2011, to read as follows:
". The number of directors of the Corporation (exclusive of directors to be elected by the holders of one or more series of the Preferred Stock of the Corporation which may be outstanding, voting separately as a series or class) shall be fixed from time to time by action of not less than a majority of the members of the Board of Directors then in office, but in no event shall be less than three nor more than thirteen."
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
Except as hereby specifically amended, the By-Laws shall be and remain in full force and effect.
The foregoing is certified as an amendment to the By-Laws of the Corporation, adopted by the Board of Directors effective as of July 1, 2011.
 

Exhibit 10.2
GUARANTY AGREEMENT (this "") dated as of July 1, 2011, among the GUARANTOR party hereto (the "") and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as administrative agent on behalf of the Lenders (as hereinafter defined) (the "").
Agreement
Guarantor
Administrative Agent
A. Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), certain lenders party thereto (the "") and the Administrative Agent are party to (i) that certain Term Loan Agreement, dated as of June 3, 2011 (as the same may be Modified from time to time) (as may be amended or modified, the ""; and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, all capitalized terms used herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Term Loan Agreement) and (ii) that certain Consent Agreement, dated as of June 3, 2011 (as may be Modified, the "").
Borrower
Lenders
Term Loan Agreement
Consent Agreement
B. The Borrower has informed the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that the Ventas Acquisition (as defined in the Consent Agreement) shall become effective on the date of this Agreement.
C. This Agreement is being delivered pursuant to the terms of the Consent Agreement as a condition to the consent of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to the Ventas Acquisition.
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.
The Guaranty.
(a) The Guarantor hereby guarantees to the Administrative Agent and each of the holders of the Obligations, as hereinafter provided, as primary obligor and not as surety, the prompt payment of the Obligations (the "") in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) strictly in accordance with the terms thereof. The Guarantor hereby further agrees that if any of the Guaranteed Obligations are not paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise), the Guarantor will promptly pay the same, without any demand or notice whatsoever, and that in the case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due (whether at extended maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) in accordance with the terms of such extension or renewal.
Guaranteed Obligations
(b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein, in any of the other Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Obligations, the obligations of the Guarantor under this Agreement shall be limited to an aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render such obligations subject to avoidance under the Debtor Relief Laws or any comparable provisions of any applicable state law. As used in this Agreement, the term "" shall mean the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, as heretofore and hereafter amended, as codified at 11 U.S.C.  101 et seq., and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any successor provision thereto and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief laws of the United States of America or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
 
Section 2. . The obligations of the Guarantor under are absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Obligations, or any substitution, compromise, release, impairment or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Guaranteed Obligations, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws, irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor, it being the intent of this that the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances. The Guarantor agrees that the Guarantor shall have no right of subrogation, indemnity, reimbursement or contribution against the Borrower for amounts paid under this Agreement until such time as the Obligations have been irrevocably paid in full and the Commitments relating thereto have expired or been terminated. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is agreed that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the occurrence of any one or more of the following shall not alter or impair the liability of the Guarantor hereunder, which shall remain absolute and unconditional as described above:
Obligations Unconditional
Section 1
Section 2
(a) at any time or from time to time, without notice to the Guarantor, the time for any performance of or compliance with any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived;
(b) any of the acts mentioned in any of the provisions of any of the Loan Documents, or other documents relating to the Guaranteed Obligations or any other agreement or instrument referred to therein shall be done or omitted;
(c) the maturity of any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be accelerated, or any of the Obligations shall be modified, supplemented or amended in any respect, or any right under any of the Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Guaranteed Obligations, or any other agreement or instrument referred to therein shall be waived or any other guarantee of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any security therefor shall be released, impaired or exchanged in whole or in part or otherwise dealt with;
(d) any Lien granted to, or in favor of, the Administrative Agent or any of the holders of the Guaranteed Obligations as security for any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall fail to attach or be perfected; or
(e) any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be determined to be void or voidable (including for the benefit of any creditor of the Guarantor) or shall be subordinated to the claims of any Person (including any creditor of the Guarantor).
With respect to its obligations hereunder, the Guarantor hereby expressly waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, protest, notice of acceptance of the guaranty given hereby and of extensions of credit that may constitute Guaranteed Obligations, notices of amendments, waivers and supplements to the Loan Documents and other documents relating to the Guaranteed Obligations, or the compromise, release or exchange of collateral or security, and all notices whatsoever, and any requirement that the Administrative Agent or any holder of the Guaranteed Obligations exhaust any right, power or remedy or proceed against any Person under any of the Loan Documents or any other documents relating to the Guaranteed Obligations or any other agreement or instrument referred to therein, or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or security for, any of the Obligations.
 
Section 3. Neither the Guarantor's obligations hereunder nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Borrower, by reason of the Borrower's bankruptcy or insolvency or by reason of the invalidity or unenforceability of all or any portion of the Guaranteed Obligations. The obligations of the Guarantor under this Agreement shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Obligations, whether as a result of any proceedings pursuant to any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, and the Guarantor agrees that it will indemnify the Administrative Agent and each holder of Guaranteed Obligations on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including all reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of any law firm or other counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such holder of Guaranteed Obligations in connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any Debtor Relief Law.
Reinstatement.
Section 4. The Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that (a) the guaranty given hereby may be enforced without the necessity of resorting to or otherwise exhausting remedies in respect of any other security or collateral interests, and without the necessity at any time of having to take recourse against the Borrower hereunder or against any collateral securing the Guaranteed Obligations or otherwise, (b) it will not assert any right to require the action first be taken against the Borrower or any other Person (including any co-guarantor) or pursuit of any other remedy or enforcement of any other right and (c) nothing contained herein shall prevent or limit action being taken against the Borrower hereunder, under the other Loan Documents or the other documents and agreements relating to the Guaranteed Obligations or from foreclosing on any security or collateral interests relating hereto or thereto, or from exercising any other rights or remedies available in respect thereof, if neither the Borrower nor the Guarantor shall timely perform their obligations, and the exercise of any such rights and completion of any such foreclosure proceedings shall not constitute a discharge of the Guarantor's obligations hereunder unless as a result thereof, the Guaranteed Obligations shall have been paid in full and the Commitments relating thereto shall have expired or been terminated, it being the purpose and intent that the Guarantor's obligations hereunder be absolute, irrevocable, independent and unconditional under all circumstances.
Certain Waivers.
Section 5. The Guarantor agrees that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, as between the Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the holders of the Guaranteed Obligations, on the other hand, the Guaranteed Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Article VII of the Loan Agreement (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in Article VII of the Loan Agreement) for purposes of of this Agreement, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing the Guaranteed Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against any other Person and that, in the event of such declaration (or the Guaranteed Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), the Guaranteed Obligations (whether or not due and payable by any other Person) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantor for purposes of .
Remedies.
Section 1
Section 1
Section 6. [].
Intentionally Deleted
Section 7. The guarantee in this Agreement is a guaranty of payment and not of collection, and is a continuing guarantee, and shall apply to all Guaranteed Obligations whenever arising.
Guaranty of Payment; Continuing Guaranty.
 
Section 8. . The Guarantor hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, as follows:
Guarantor's Representations
(a) The Guarantor has all necessary corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement; the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Guarantor has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action; and this Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by the Guarantor and constitutes the Guarantor's legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable in accordance with its respective terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws of general applicability affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and (ii) the application of general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Section 9. . Except as modified herein, all of the Loan Documents are hereby ratified and confirmed on behalf of the parties hereto and thereto.
Ratification
Section 10. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
(b) . The terms of this Agreement may be waived, modified and amended only by an instrument in writing duly executed by the Guarantor and the Administrative Agent (with any required consent of the Lenders pursuant to the Term Loan Agreement). Any such waiver, modification or amendment shall be binding upon the Guarantor and the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each holder of any of the Notes.
Amendments, Etc
(c) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the Guarantor, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and any holder of any of the Notes.
Successors and Assigns
(d) . The captions and section headings appearing herein are included solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to affect the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement.
Captions
(e) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument and either of the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Agreement by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.
Counterparts
(f) . If any provision hereof is invalid and unenforceable in any jurisdiction, then, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (i) the other provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and shall be liberally construed in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in order to carry out the intentions of the parties hereto as nearly as may be possible and (ii) the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
June 30, 2011
Douglas M. Pasquale 900 E Balboa Blvd. Newport Beach, CA 92611
Dear Mr. Pasquale,
On behalf of Ventas, Inc. (the "") and in accordance with the terms and conditions outlined in this letter (the ""), I am pleased to confirm that the Company hereby offers you employment, effective upon the Effective Time (as defined under the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among the Company, Needles Acquisition LLC and Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. (""), dated as of February 27, 2011 (the "")). This Letter will be of no force or effect if the Merger Agreement terminates before the Effective Time. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein will have the meaning ascribed to them in the Merger Agreement. Except as explicitly provided in this Letter, as of and following the Effective Time, this Letter shall supersede and preempt the Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between you and NHP, effective as of October 28, 2008 (the "").
Company
Letter
NHP
Merger Agreement
NHP Employment Agreement
Below are the terms of your employment with the Company on and following the Effective Time, as well as the treatment of certain equity and equity-related NHP awards held by you:
 
 
The Company shall also, consistent with the Company's customary practices, arrange to provide you, during the period of your employment with the Company, with office accommodations and support, which shall include computer, personal digital assistant, cell phone, and telecommunication office equipment (e.g., fax machine, copy machine, telephone), reasonable office supplies, subscription to the Wall Street Journal and other publications to which you currently subscribe, and full-time secretarial and IT support (""). If at any point during the Term, the Company terminates your employment as Senior Advisor without Cause, your Advisor Benefits will continue until December 31, 2011.
Advisor Benefits
 
 
 
 
Within 10 days following the Effective Time, the Company shall submit a proposed computation of the amount that must be paid to you such that after the payment of (i) the excise tax payable under Section 4999 of the Code by you in respect of any amounts payable to you and (ii) any and all federal and state income, excise and other tax payable by you on the increased amounts payable hereunder, the amount received by you is equal to all severance amounts payable by the Company to you (the ""), which Proposed 280G Calculation shall be substantially the same as the 280G calculation which is attached as Exhibit C hereto (other than in respect of facts which have changed since the date of this letter (, the Company stock price), for your review and comment, which comments shall be made within 10 days of your receipt of the Proposed 280G Calculation. For purposes of making the Proposed 280G Calculation, the Company shall assume that you pay U.S. federal and state income tax at the highest marginal rates applicable to an individual resident of California, with the Federal rate being adjusted to take into account the deduction against federal taxable income for state income taxes.
Proposed 280G Calculation
e.g.
The Company shall be obligated, in good faith, to review any of your suggested modification to the Proposed 280G Calculation, and consider changes based thereon. The Company shall make a final determination of the amount payable to you pursuant to the 280 Gross Up within 15 days of receiving any suggested modifications from you (or immediately after 10 days of your receipt of the Proposed 280G Calculation in the event you do not make any suggested modifications), and such final determination shall become the "Final Calculation." Any time after the date the Company determines the Final Calculation, upon your written request to the Company, the Company shall pay to you the amount determined by the Final Calculation as soon as practicable and no later than 10 days after receiving your written request; , the Final Calculation shall be paid no later than the end of the first year following the year in which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate taxing authority. You shall report, for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, in a manner that is consistent with the Final Calculation (the "").
provided however
Reported Position
 
Without duplication of the 280G Gross Up, the Company shall indemnify you for any additional tax, penalty and interest, and legal, accounting, and related costs (including tax return preparation and defense) incurred by you as a result of the application of either Code Section 4999 or any similar provision of state or local income tax law, to any severance amounts payable by the Company to you. Any amount for which you are indemnified under the preceding sentence ("") shall be computed on an after-tax basis, taking into account any income, excise or other taxes, including interest and penalties. Upon payment of any Indemnified Amount, or (if the Indemnified Amount is not yet payable) upon the Company's written affirmation of the Company's obligation to indemnify you with respect to the Reported Position, the Company shall be entitled, at its sole expense, to control the contest of any disallowance or proposed disallowance of the Reported Position (a ""), and you agree to cooperate in good faith in connection with a Contest, including, without limitation, executing powers of attorney and other documents, and providing information relating to such Contest requested by the Company, all at the reasonable request of the Company. An Indemnified Amount shall be payable by the Company whenever the related amount is payable to a taxing authority or whenever you incur an expense or cost described in the first sentence of this paragraph. Following payment by the Company of any Indemnified Amount, if the Reported Position is sustained by the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, the Company shall be entitled to any resulting receipt of interest or refund of taxes, interest and penalties that were properly attributable to the Indemnified Amount. If the Reported Position is sustained in whole or in part in a final resolution of a Contest, and if the Indemnified Amount therefore exceeds the amount of taxes, penalties and interest payable by you as a result of the Reported Position (determined on an after-tax basis after taking into account payments made pursuant to the preceding sentence and this sentence), any such excess portion of the Indemnified Amount shall be returned by you to the Company. The Company shall make any payment of an Indemnified Amount to you as soon as practicable, but not later than 10 days after you have provided to the Company a written notice that you have remitted the taxes or incurred the expense to which the Indemnified Amount is related; any Indemnified Amount shall be paid no later than the end of the first year following the year in which the related taxes are remitted to the appropriate taxing authority, or where as a result of a Contest no taxes are remitted, no later than the end of the year following the year in which the Contest is completed or there is a final and nonappealable settlement or other resolution of the Contest (for the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing proviso shall not permit the Company to delay the payment of the Indemnified Amount to you beyond 10 days after you have provided to the Company a written notice that you have remitted the taxes or incurred the expense to which the Indemnified Amount is related).
Indemnified Amount
Contest
provided however,
 
Nothing in the foregoing clause (ii) shall however, restrict you from (A) making an investment in or owning up to five percent (5%) of the common stock of any company, provided that such investment does not give you the right or ability to control or influence the policy decisions of any Prohibited Entity, and provided further that you may, with the advance written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, make investments in over five percent (5%) of the common stock of a company, or (B) performing services as an employee, director, officer, consultant, independent contractor or advisor for any entity that is not a Prohibited Entity. For purposes of this Letter, a "" means any of the following entities and any of their respective parents, affiliated entities, or subsidiaries: (1) HCP, Inc., (2) Health Care REIT, Inc., (3) Healthcare Trust of America, Inc., (4) H&R REIT or (5) Grubb & Ellis Healthcare REIT.
Prohibited Entity
 
 
 
If to you:
Douglas M. Pasquale 900 E Balboa Blvd. Newport Beach, CA 92611
With a copy to:
Matthew R. Perkins Davis Graham & Stubbs LLP 1550 17th Street, Suite 500 Denver, Colorado 80202
If to the Company:
Ventas, Inc. 10350 Ormsby Park Place Suite 300 Louisville, Kentucky 40223 Attn: General Counsel
With a copy to:
Michael J. Segal Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz 51 W. 52nd Street New York, New York 10019
 
On behalf of the Board, we are excited that you have agreed to accept this offer of employment and look forward to the consummation of the transactions described in the Merger Agreement and the commencement of your employment. Please sign in the space provided below to formally accept this Letter and return the original to me.
Acknowledgement:
I accept the position as offered under the terms and conditions set forth in this Letter.

Exhibit 99.1
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE: VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that it has completed its previously announced acquisition of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. (NYSE: NHP) ("NHP") in a stock-for-stock transaction, creating one of the largest publicly-traded REITs and the leading healthcare REIT by equity value.
CHICAGO, IL (July 1, 2011)
"With the completion of the NHP acquisition, Ventas is a $23 billion enterprise poised to thrive in the dynamic and growing healthcare real estate space," Ventas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Debra A. Cafaro said. "Ventas owns a highly diversified and productive portfolio supported by powerful demographic demand. With 70 percent of our net operating income derived from private pay sources, a strong and flexible investment grade balance sheet and a powerful combined investment platform, Ventas is uniquely positioned to compete for a broad spectrum of seniors housing and healthcare real estate opportunities. We are confident that the NHP acquisition will benefit Ventas's shareholders, bondholders and customers as we seek to deliver another decade of excellence.
"NHP has a rich and successful 25 year history and we are delighted that three NHP directors have joined the Ventas Board: Douglas M. Pasquale, NHP's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard I. Gilchrist, and Robert D. Paulson, NHP's Lead Independent Director. I look forward to working with Doug as a Senior Advisor to ensure a successful transition, and am pleased to welcome our new colleagues as we continue to enhance value for all stakeholders," Cafaro added.
Ventas has previously stated that the NHP acquisition will be accretive to 2011 earnings. The Company expects to provide detailed financial projections for the year when it reports results for the second quarter of 2011.
The Company also announced that shareholders of both companies overwhelmingly voted in favor of the acquisition and certain related matters.
At a special meeting of Ventas shareholders held today in Chicago, more than 99.8 percent of the votes cast  representing approximately 87.7 percent of Ventas's shares outstanding  voted to approve the issuance of additional shares of Ventas common stock to NHP shareholders in connection with the acquisition.
At a special meeting of NHP shareholders held today in Newport Beach, approximately 98.9 percent of the votes cast  representing approximately 84.7 percent of NHP's shares outstanding  voted to adopt the merger agreement and approve the acquisition of NHP by Ventas.
Effective today, shares of NHP common stock will no longer be traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
Ventas Completes Acquisition of Nationwide Health Properties July 1, 2011 Page 2
Ventas, Inc., an S&P 500 company, is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust. Its diverse portfolio of more than 1,300 assets in 47 states (including the District of Columbia) and two Canadian provinces consists of seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities, hospitals, medical office buildings and other properties. Through its Lillibridge subsidiary, Ventas provides management, leasing, marketing, facility development and advisory services to highly rated hospitals and health systems throughout the United States.
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's or its tenants', operators', managers' or borrowers' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, operating metrics, capital expenditures, competitive positions, acquisitions, investment opportunities, dispositions, merger integration, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.
The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include without limitation: (a) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other third parties to meet and/or perform their obligations under their respective contractual arrangements with the Company, including, in some cases, their obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities; (b) the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and liabilities to third parties, including without limitation obligations under their existing credit facilities and other indebtedness; (c) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, including the NHP transaction and those in different asset types and outside the United States; (d) the nature and extent of future competition; (e) the extent of future or pending healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates; (f) increases in the Company's cost of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; (g) the ability of the Company's operators and managers, as applicable, to deliver high quality services, to attract and retain qualified personnel and to attract residents and patients; (h) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, and the effect of those changes on the Company's revenues and its ability to access the capital markets or other sources of funds; (i) the Company's ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due; (j) the Company's ability and willingness to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations; (k) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2010 and for the year ending December 31, 2011; (l) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to reposition its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the Company's tenants or in the event the Company exercises its right to replace an existing tenant upon default; (m) risks associated with the Company's senior living operating portfolio, such as factors causing volatility in the Company's operating income and earnings generated by its properties, including without limitation national and regional economic conditions, costs of materials, energy, labor and services, employee benefit costs, insurance costs and professional and general liability claims, and the timely delivery of accurate property-level financial results for those properties; (n) the movement of U.S. and Canadian exchange rates; (o) year-over-year changes in the Consumer Price Index and the effect of those changes on the rent escalators, including the rent escalator for Master Lease 2 with Kindred, and the Company's earnings; (p) the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance from reputable and financially stable providers; (q) the impact of increased operating costs and uninsured professional liability claims on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers, and the ability of the Company's tenants, operators, borrowers and managers to accurately estimate the magnitude of those claims; (r) risks associated with the Company's MOB portfolio and operations, including its ability to successfully design, develop and manage MOBs, to accurately estimate its costs in fixed fee-for-service projects and to retain key personnel; (s) the ability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses the Company's MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems to remain competitive and financially viable and to attract physicians and physician groups; (t) the Company's ability to maintain or expand its relationships with its existing and future hospital and health system clients; (u) risks associated with the Company's investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities, including its lack of sole decision-making authority and its reliance on its joint venture partners' financial condition; (v) the impact of market or issuer events on the liquidity or value of the Company's investments in marketable securities; and (w) the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues or litigation that may affect the Company or its major tenants, operators or managers. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.


