FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20110411145202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
x
         
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01.
      
Other Events.
 
As previously announced, in October 2010, Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas") signed a definitive agreement to acquire substantially all of the real estate assets of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") and certain of its affiliated entities (including One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("One Lantern")), by way of merger, including 118 private pay seniors housing communities located in markets such as the New York metropolitan area, New England and California.  Completion of the Atria transaction is subject to certain conditions.  Ventas expects the Atria transaction to occur in the first half of 2011, although there can be no assurance as to whether or when the transaction will be completed.
 
Also as previously announced, in February 2011, Ventas signed a definitive agreement to acquire Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. ("NHP") in a stock-for-stock transaction.  Completion of the NHP transaction is subject to, among other things, approval by Ventas stockholders and NHP stockholders.  Ventas expects the NHP transaction to occur in the third quarter of 2011, although there can be no assurance as to whether or when the transaction will be completed.
 
Additional Information about the Proposed NHP Transaction and Where to Find It
 
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval.  In connection with the proposed NHP transaction, Ventas and NHP expect to prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 containing a joint proxy statement/prospectus and other documents with respect to Ventas's proposed acquisition of NHP. 
INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS (INCLUDING ALL AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IF AND WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION.
 
Investors may obtain free copies of the registration statement, the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents filed by Ventas and NHP with the SEC (if and when they become available) through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.  Copies of the documents filed by Ventas with the SEC are also available free of charge on Ventas's website at www.ventasreit.com, and copies of the documents filed by NHP with the SEC are available free of charge on NHP's website at www.nhp-reit.com.
 
Ventas, NHP and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Ventas's and NHP's shareholders in respect of the proposed transaction.  Information regarding Ventas's directors and executive officers can be found in Ventas's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 28, 2011.  Information regarding NHP's directors and executive officers can be found in NHP's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 25, 2010.  Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents filed with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction if and when they become available.  These documents are available free of charge on the SEC's website and from Ventas or NHP, as applicable, using the sources indicated above.
 
Item 9.01.
      
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) 
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of Atria as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 9.01(a) by reference.
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of One Lantern as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated in this Item 9.01(a) by reference.
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of NHP as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated in this Item 9.01(a) by reference.
 
(b) 
Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements of Ventas as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010, giving effect to the Atria and NHP transactions, are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.4 and incorporated in this Item 9.01(b) by reference.
 
(c)  .
Shell Company Transactions
 
Not applicable.
 
(d)
        
E
xhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-155770, 333-158424, and 333-165737 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-61552, 333-97251, 333-107951, 333-118944, 333-126639, and 333-136175 on Form S-8 of Ventas, Inc. (the Company) of our report dated February 16, 2011 related to the consolidated financial statements of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, appearing in Item 9.01 of this current report on Form 8-K of the Company dated April 11, 2011.
 
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
April 11, 2011
 

Exhibit 23.2
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-155770, 333-158424, and 333-165737 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-61552, 333-97251, 333-107951, 333-118944, 333-126639, and 333-136175 on Form S-8 of Ventas, Inc. (the Company) of our report dated February 16, 2011 related to the consolidated financial statements of One Lantern Senior Living Inc  and subsidiaries as of and for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, appearing in Item 9.01 of this current report on Form 8-K of the Company dated April 11, 2011.
 
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
April 11, 2011
 

Exhibit 23.3
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements:
 
                 
Form S-8, File No. 333-61552 (pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. Common Stock Purchase Plan for Directors);
                 
Form S-8, File No. 333-97251 (pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan);
                 
Form S-8, File No. 333-107951 (pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan for Directors);
                 
Form S-8, File No. 333-118944 (pertaining to the Ventas Executive Deferred Stock Compensation Plan and Ventas Nonemployee Director Deferred Stock Compensation Plan);
                 
Form S-8, File No. 333-126639 (pertaining to the Ventas Employee and Director Stock Purchase Plan);
                 
Form S-8, File No. 333-136175 (pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. 2006 Incentive Plan and Ventas, Inc. 2006 Stock Plan for Directors);
                 
Form S-3, File No. 333-155770 (pertaining to the Ventas, Inc. Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan);
                 
Form S-3, File No. 333-158424 (pertaining to preferred stock, depository shares, common stock, warrants and debt securities of Ventas, Inc.); and
                 
Form S-3, File No. 333-165737 (pertaining to the common stock of Ventas, Inc.)
 
filed by Ventas, Inc. of our report dated March 1, 2011, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., included in Ventas, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 11, 2011 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Irvine, California
April 8, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Atria Senior Living Group, Inc.
 
Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, and Independent Auditors' Report
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Board of Directors of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. Louisville, Kentucky
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholder's equity, and cash flows for the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
 
February 16, 2011
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands)
 
 
(Continued)
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands)
 
 
 
ATRIA SENIOR LIVING GROUP, INC.
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
 
1.
                     
THE COMPANY AND BACKGROUND
 
Organization
  Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") and subsidiaries (the "Company"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of LF Strategic Realty Investors II L.P., LFSRI II-CADIM Alternative Partnership L.P., and LFSRI II Alternative Partnership L.P. (collectively known as "LFSRI II"), is a national provider of assisted and independent living services for seniors.
 
Background
  As of December 31, 2010, the Company owned or operated 95 communities located in 27 states with a total of 11,324 units. Of the 95 communities, 71 are owned by the Company and 24 are operated by the Company pursuant to long-term leases. The Company also managed 31 communities for Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP ("LSHP"), a related investment fund (refer to Note 3 for a discussion of the Master Agreement).
 
2.
                     
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Basis of Presentation
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the Company's subsidiaries and all variable interest entities where the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
 
As discussed in Note 5, the Company has presented certain operations on a discontinued basis.
 
Variable Interest Entities
  The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)), addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities ("VIE"). A VIE is subject to the consolidation provisions if it cannot support its financial activities without additional subordinated financial support from third parties or its equity investors lack any one of the following characteristics: the ability to make decisions about its activities through voting rights, the obligation to absorb losses of the entity if they occur, or the right to receive residual returns of the entity if they occur. A VIE is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the party that (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. For the purposes of determining a primary beneficiary, all related party interests must be combined with the actual interests of the Company in the VIE.
 
The Company has a variable interest in Senior Quarters Operating Company ("SQOC"). SQOC is the operator of 11 licensed assisted living facilities located in the state of New York and is 100% owned by an individual that is a director of Atria. SQOC operates the facilities under operating agreements with subsidiaries of the Company. SQOC is a VIE and the Company has consolidated SQOC as it has determined that it is the primary beneficiary. There are no consolidated assets that represent collateral for the VIE at December 31, 2010. The creditors have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. Intercompany amounts and balances have been eliminated.
The Company entered into an agreement with Forest City Daly Home Care Agency LLC ("FCD HCA"), a licensed home care services agency, in August 2007. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company had a variable interest in FCD HCA and was considered its primary beneficiary. The Company consolidated the assets and liabilities of the VIE as of the commencement date through April 2009. In May 2009, the Company purchased the operations and related assets of FCD HCA.
 
Use of Estimates
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Revenues
  Revenues are recognized when services are rendered and consist principally of monthly resident fees and fees for other ancillary services. Payments received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue which is included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Residence and service agreements are for a term of one year, and are cancellable with 30 days notice from either party. Revenues from management contracts are recognized in the period earned in accordance with the terms of the management agreement.
 
Substantially all revenues are derived from private pay sources. Amounts due from residents are stated at net realizable value. The allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2010 and 2009, was approximately $1.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
 
Advertising Costs
  The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense included in continuing operations was approximately $5.3 million and $4.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
  Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates their fair value.
 
The Company has invested a portion of its cash in money market funds, which are exposed to various risks, including interest rate, credit, and overall market risk. These funds have readily determinable market values. The Company identifies the cash invested in these funds as cash and cash equivalents as the Company has the ability to buy and sell shares at any time. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had approximately $68.2 million and $107.1 million, respectively, invested in prime money market funds.
 
Restricted Cash  Current
  Restricted cash  current includes insurance, real estate taxes and repair escrows held by third party lenders that will be disbursed in twelve months or less. Also included are replacement reserves to be released to the Company by third party lenders in the next twelve months as reimbursement for amounts previously expended by the Company for capital items.
 
Long-Lived Assets
  Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation expense is computed by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as follows: buildings (40 years), building improvements (520 years) and furniture and equipment (310 years). Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or useful life. Repairs and maintenance expense included in continuing operations were approximately $11.8 million and $12.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Property and equipment consist of the following at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
Depreciation expense was approximately $51.7 million and $45.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Assets held under capital leases are included in the amounts above and consist of the following at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
In January 2009, the Company exercised a purchase option for $19.0 million for one community that was previously accounted for as a capital lease. The purchase was financed with $14.9 million of long-term debt.
 
The Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360 (previously Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, ). This guidance requires that intangible assets and long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company regularly reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets with respect to any events or circumstances that indicate impairment or that depreciation estimates may require adjustment. If such circumstances suggest the recorded amounts are more than the sum of the undiscounted cash flows, the carrying values of such assets are reduced to fair market value. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value of the assets. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company does not believe that the carrying value or the depreciation periods of its intangible assets and long-lived assets require any material adjustment.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets
ASC Topic 410 (previously SFAS No. 143, ), addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement cost. This guidance applies to legal obligations related to the retirement of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and/or the normal operation of a long-lived asset, except for certain obligations of leases. The fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation must be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. The liability is discounted and accretion expense is recognized using the credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate in effect when the liability was initially recognized. An entity is required to recognize a liability for a legal obligation to perform asset retirement activities when the retirement is conditional on a future event and if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated. This standard has not had a material effect on the Company's earnings or financial position. The Company is currently evaluating potential investments in its existing properties that could result in significant future capital improvements to certain of the Company's facilities. It is possible that the estimates used by the Company in accounting for its obligations could change in the near term depending on the timing of the projects approved in the future.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
Goodwill, Leasehold Interests, and Other Intangibles
  The Company accounts for business combinations under the purchase method. Accordingly, the aggregate purchase price of business combinations is allocated to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values. Estimates are based on historical, financial, and market information.
 
The Company's intangible assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, consist of the following (in thousands):
 
 
The Company has completed its most recent annual goodwill impairment test at December 31, 2010, and has determined that no impairment exists. Goodwill is allocated to the carrying value of each facility and analyzed in connection with our evaluation of permanent impairment based on the relative fair value of the community to the Company as a whole. The fair values used in this evaluation are estimated based upon discounted future cash flow projections for the reporting unit as well as market based sales transactions. These cash flow projections are based upon a number of estimates and assumptions such as revenue and expense growth rates, capitalization rates and discount rates.
 
The amortization period of the leasehold interests includes renewal periods on the underlying leases extending to 2051.
Other intangibles consist primarily of lease restructuring fees, additional rent charges and deferred lease costs, which are amortized over the life of the assets.
 
Estimated aggregate amortization expense for intangible assets subject to amortization is approximately $2.1 million for each of the next five years.
 
Leases
  Leases that substantially transfer all of the benefits and risks of ownership of property to the Company, or otherwise meet the criteria for capitalizing a lease in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, are accounted for as capital leases. Property and equipment recorded under capital leases are depreciated on the same basis as other property and equipment. Amortization related to capital leases is included in the consolidated statements of operations within depreciation and amortization expense. Rental payments under operating leases are expensed as incurred.
 
Deferred Financing Costs
  Costs incurred in connection with obtaining financing are deferred and amortized (included in interest expense) over the life of the related long-term debt, using the straight-line method which approximates the effective interest method. Deferred financing costs are presented net of accumulated amortization of approximately $12.3 million and $9.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Leasehold Deposits
  Leasehold deposits of approximately $5.1 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 consist of cash payments made by the Company to certain lessors as required by the Company's operating leases.
 
Restricted Cash and Other Non-Current Assets
  Long-term restricted cash totaled approximately $12.0 million and $10.2 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which includes funds held for repair and replacement and debt service reserve escrows that are not expected to be disbursed to the Company within twelve months. Also included are money market funds held by RCI Insurance Company, a wholly owned captive insurance company.
 
Income Taxes
  The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded to adjust net deferred tax assets to the amount which management believes will more likely than not be recoverable. In making such determination, management considers available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the implementation of prudent tax planning strategies. In the event that the Company is able to utilize its deferred tax assets in excess of their recorded amount, the valuation allowance will be reduced with a corresponding reduction to income tax expense.
 
ASC Topic 740 (previously FASB Interpretation No. 48, ) prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions that the Company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. ASC Topic 740 provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the income tax position. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
recognized. The Company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2009, and the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
Fair Value Measurements
  ASC Topic 820 (previously SFAS No. 157, ) defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value, and expanded disclosures required for fair value measurements. This guidance also defines a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels. These levels, in order of highest to lowest priority, are described below:
Fair Value Measurements
 
Level 1
  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
 
Level 2
  Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
 
Level 3
  Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 includes values determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques reflecting the Company's own assumptions.
 
The Company adopted ASC Topic 820 (previously FASB Staff Position FAS 157-2, ) for all non-financial assets and liabilities in 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
 
The Company also adopted ASC Topic 825 (previously SFAS No. 159, ) as of January 1, 2008, which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. In addition, it also establishes recognition, presentation, and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. The Company has not made any fair value elections with respect to any of its eligible assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2010.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
  In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 820, , which requires additional disclosures to recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. A reporting entity is to disclose significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2, and describe the reason for those transfers. Additionally, an entity is to present separately, on a gross basis, information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements pertaining to the activity in Level 3. The guidance also clarifies the level of disaggregation and disclosures about input and valuation techniques used to determine Level 2 and Level 3 measurements. The ASC Topic 820 update is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009 (except for the requirement to separately disclose purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the Level 3 roll forward, which becomes effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2010). The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Improving Disclosure about Fair Value Measurements
 
ASC Topic 805 (previously SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), ) provides guidance for the way companies account for business combinations. This guidance requires transaction-related costs to be expensed as incurred, which were previously accounted for as a cost of acquisition. ASC Topic 805 also requires acquirers to estimate the acquisition-date fair value of any contingent
Business Combinations
consideration and recognize any subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration in earnings. In addition, restructuring costs the acquirer was not obligated to incur shall be recognized separately from the business acquisition. The Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company has a total valuation allowance of $191.1 million as of December 31, 2010, to reduce its deferred tax assets, of which $15.9 million was recognized in purchase accounting to reserve a portion of an acquired entity's deferred tax assets. Deferred tax assets related to acquired entities will affect income tax expense in the period of reversal if they are settled for lesser amounts. As of December 31, 2010, the Company has not reduced the valuation allowance established in connection with the acquisition.
 
ASC Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 160, of ARB No. 51) requires all entities to report noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements. A single method of accounting has been established for changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation. Companies no longer recognize a gain or loss on partial disposals of a subsidiary where control is retained. In addition, in partial acquisitions where control is obtained, the acquiring company will recognize and measure at fair value 100 percent of the assets and liabilities, including goodwill, as if the entire target company had been acquired. The company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, An Amendment
 
3.
                     
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
The Company reimbursed LFSRI II for certain professional fees, which it paid on the Company's behalf, and for travel and out of pocket costs incurred by the general partner of LFSRI II directly related to the activities of the Company. These costs totaled approximately $149,000 and $281,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These expenses are included in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, the Company reimbursed LFSRI II $82,000 and $511,000, for the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively, for certain professional fees related to development activities which have been capitalized and included in property and equipment.
 
During 2010, the Company paid $5.8 million in transaction expenses related to the Ventas transaction (refer to footnote 15) on behalf of LFSRI II and affiliates. The balance is included in Advances to Affiliates and is classified as a reduction of equity in the accompanying balance sheets.
 
The Company and Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP ("LSHP"), a real estate opportunity fund formed for the purpose of making debt and equity investments in senior housing assets, are parties to a Master Agreement under which the Company is engaged to provide certain management, operating and loan servicing activities for the investments made by LSHP. A majority of the partner capital interests in LSHP also hold partnership interests in LFSRI II. Under the terms of the Master Agreement, any new facilities acquired by LSHP, which are not already encumbered by an existing third party management agreement, will be added to this arrangement. The Master Agreement has an initial term of ten years (expiring July 2015) with automatic one year renewal periods thereafter, and establishes standardized terms for the facilities for which the Company will be engaged to provide services (the "Facility Management Agreements"). As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company managed 31 communities for One Lantern Senior Living LLC ("OLSL LLC") and SG Senior Living LLC ("SGSL") under the terms of the Facility Management Agreement.
Pursuant to the Facility Management Agreements, during the initial 24 months that a facility is owned, the Company receives a management fee of 5.00% of cash revenue. After this initial period, the Company receives a management fee of 3.00% to 5.00% of cash revenue based on the operating margins of the managed facilities. The Facility Management Agreements require the Company to be reimbursed for the payroll and related costs of on-site employees, as well as certain other costs that are incurred by the Company. These reimbursements are in addition to the management fees.
 
During 2010 and 2009, the Company received management fees of approximately $9.0 million and $8.8 million, respectively, under these agreements. Additionally, reimbursements for payroll and related expenses, as well as other expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the communities managed for OLSL LLC and SGSL, totaled approximately $68.4 million and $66.6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the communities managed for OLSL LLC and SGSL owed the Company approximately $9.8 million and $11.9 million, respectively, related to management fees and reimbursable expenses.
 
During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company received $164,000 and $227,000 in revenue from OLSL LLC, respectively, for residents that were relocated from an OLSL LLC facility to an Atria facility. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company received $27,000 in revenue from SGSL for residents that were relocated from an SGSL facility to an Atria facility.
 
4.
                     
ACQUISITIONS
 
In May 2009, the Company purchased the operations and related assets and liabilities of FCD HCA for $736,000, which was funded from existing cash balances. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The Company recorded an intangible asset for customer contracts that were in place between the home care agency and residents, which were amortized over 18 months, the estimated life of the contracts. Tangible assets and other intangible assets were not material. The home care services agency has been included in the results of operations for all periods presented as it was previously consolidated as a VIE.
 
5.
                     
ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
Assets qualifying as "held for sale" are required to be recorded at the lower of their carrying value or fair value, less costs to sell, and must be classified separately on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. In addition, operating results and cash flows for communities either sold or held for sale are required to be classified as discontinued operations in the Company's accompanying consolidated statements of operations and cash flows.
The following amounts were segregated from continuing operations and included in discontinued operations, net of tax in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
The following assets and liabilities were segregated and included in assets held for sale and liabilities associated with assets held for sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
 
In 2010, assets classified as assets held for sale were deemed to no longer meet the criteria outlined in ASC Topic 360 (previously Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, ). In accordance with ASC Topic 360, such assets were reclassified as held and used. In 2010, $1.6 million in assets were reclassified and are included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets
 
6.
                     
RETURN ON INVESTMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED COMMUNITIES
 
In July 2009, the Company sold two outstanding notes and its .01% interest in a non-consolidated partnership for $2.0 million. The notes were previously reserved due to uncertainty of collection; therefore, the Company recognized a $2.0 million gain from sale which is included in loss on disposition of assets  net in the accompanying financial statements. The Company also ceased management services with the associated low income apartment complex and has no continuing involvement with the property.
7.
                     
LEASES AND DEFERRED FINANCING OBLIGATIONS
 
Capital Leases and Deferred Financing Obligations
  In April 2009, the Company amended lease agreements for nine communities. The term and renewal options related to these leases were unchanged. The initial term expires December 2021 with three ten year renewal options. One community has an additional fourth renewal option for nine years. The modifications to the lease terms included a 2% annual increase in the base rent payment and the elimination of additional rent that was previously tied to the increase in the Consumer Price Index. Additionally, the lease amendments included changes in the various dates at which fixed rate purchase options for the nine communities can be exercised, ranging from January 1, 2012 to January 1, 2017. The amendments did not result in changes to the accounting classification of these leases.
 
Future minimum lease payments for capital leases and deferred financing obligations, including amounts that would be due under future purchase options as of December 31, 2010, are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The fair value of the Company's capital leases and deferred financing obligations has been estimated based on current rates offered for debt with the same remaining maturities and comparable collateralizing assets. Changes in assumptions or methodologies used to make estimates may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of capital lease and deferred financing obligations approximated $230.2 million and $229.0 million, respectively.
 
Operating Leases
  The Company leases real estate under cancelable and non-cancelable arrangements that are accounted for as operating leases. Certain of the leases require the payment of additional rent based on a percentage increase of gross revenues. Leases are subject to increases based upon changes in the Consumer Price Index or gross revenues, subject to certain limits, as defined in the individual lease agreements. During 2010 and 2009, such additional rent expense included in continuing operations amounted to approximately $1.2 million for each year.
 
Future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable operating leases classified in continuing operations as of December 31, 2010, are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The Company is subject to various restrictive covenants including certain occupancy requirements for four communities that are leased under operating leases. In order for the properties to qualify as a "qualified residential rental project" in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code (for the underlying bonds to maintain their tax-exempt status), at least 20% of the units must be made available to persons whose adjusted family income is 50% or less of the area median gross income (adjusted for family size). As of December 31, 2010, all of the communities were in compliance with the low-income requirements.
 
As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $4.7 million in outstanding letters of credit (the "L/Cs") securing lease obligations. The lessors may draw upon the L/Cs if there are defaults under the related leases. The L/Cs expire between April 30, 2011 and September 1, 2011, with automatic one-year renewal periods thereafter, through the final expiration date.
 
8.
                     
LONG-TERM DEBT
 
A summary of long-term debt at December 31, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
In February 2010, the Company refinanced one community and entered into a new mortgage agreement totaling $15.0 million. An initial advance of $8.5 million was used to pay off existing mortgage debt on the community with the remainder of the proceeds available at future dates. The mortgage note matures in 2015. Interest and principal are payable monthly at LIBOR plus 5.80% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.50%), based on a 25 year amortization schedule.
In January 2009, the Company exercised a purchase option for one community. The $19.0 million purchase was financed with a $14.9 million ten-year note with the remainder paid from existing cash balances. Interest and principal on the note are payable monthly at a fixed rate of 6.18% based on a 30-year amortization period.
 
In April 2009, a lessor provided the Company with a $35.0 million line of credit. The Company may request draws on the line at any time through December 31, 2011, to fund upgrade expenditures and alterations for eight leased communities. Individual draws bear interest at a rate equal to 10.00%. The line of credit includes interest-only payments and has a term extending through January 4, 2021, with mandatory pre-payments in the event of an early termination of the related leases or in the event of the execution of the related purchase options. As of December 31, 2010, the Company has not drawn any of the available proceeds.
 
The Company previously obtained a $30.0 million line of credit with the same lessor. The Company could draw on the line at any time through December 31, 2010, to fund upgrade expenditures and alterations for the eight leased communities. The individual draws bear interest at a rate equal to the greater of 8.00% or the current ten year treasury rate plus 3.00%. The line of credit includes interest-only payments and has a term extending through January 2021, with mandatory pre-payments in the event of an early termination of the related leases or in the event of the execution of the related purchase options. The Company may make optional prepayments in 2012, 2013, and 2014 in an amount not to exceed $10.0 million per year. As of December 31, 2010, $20.2 million was outstanding on this line of credit.
 
In May 2009, the Company refinanced two communities and entered into new mortgage agreements totaling $34.2 million. The mortgage notes mature in June 2019. Interest and principal are payable monthly at a fixed rate of 6.15%. A total of $24.0 million of the proceeds were used to pay off the existing mortgage debt. In conjunction with the payoff, the Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $363,000.
 
In August 2009, the Company obtained additional financing related to the development of a community located in Irvine, California. The construction loan has a maximum available loan amount of $8.15 million with a maturity date of January 1, 2013. Interest is payable monthly at LIBOR + 6.00% with an 8% floor. As of December 31, 2010, $5.3 million was outstanding on this loan.
 
In September 2009, the Company obtained additional financing related to the development of a community located in Walnut Creek, California. The construction loan has a maximum available loan amount of $6.6 million with an initial maturity date of October 1, 2012 and a one-year extension option. Interest is payable monthly at LIBOR + 6.00%. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had not drawn any of the available proceeds.
 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, substantially all of the Company's property and equipment is collateralized under long-term debt and lease arrangements.
Aggregate maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2010, are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The fair value of the Company's debt has been estimated based on current rates offered for debt with the same remaining maturities and comparable collateralizing assets. Changes in assumptions or methodologies used to make estimates may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company estimated that the fair value of its long-term debt approximated $830.3 million and $832.3 million, respectively.
 
The Company's various debt and lease agreements contain financial and other covenants. As of December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with all such covenants.
 
9.
                     
INCOME TAXES
 
During 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded income tax benefits related to continuing operations as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Discontinued operations include a deferred tax benefit of $38,700 in 2009.
 
A reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective income tax rate for continuing operations is as follows:
 
A summary of the deferred income taxes by source included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $484.1 million and $477.0 million, respectively, which expire in years 2011 through 2030. Approximately $165.9 million of the net operating loss carryforwards existing at December 31, 2010, are attributable to previously acquired entities, and the utilization of these losses is subject to limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code.
 
At December 31, 2010, the Company has a valuation allowance of approximately $191.1 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In determining the need for and the amount of the valuation allowance, the Company considered the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and the implementation of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Although realization is not assured for the net deferred tax asset, management believes it is more likely than not that they will be utilized based on the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. If future taxable income is less than the amount that has been assumed in determining the deferred tax asset, then an increase in the valuation allowance will be required with a corresponding increase to income tax expense. Alternatively, if future taxable income exceeds the level that has been assumed in calculating the deferred tax asset, the valuation allowance could be reduced with the corresponding reduction to income tax expense. In 2010, the Company increased the valuation allowance by $3.7 million and recognized a corresponding expense. The increase in the valuation allowance was primarily due to a change in the estimated future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
 
The Company records interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as income tax expense. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had determined that no uncertain tax positions existed and thus, no interest or penalties were accrued.
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and various state and local jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2010, the Company's tax years for 2006 to 2010 are subject to examination by the tax authorities. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state, or local income tax examinations for years before 2006.
 
10.
              
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 
A summary of other current assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
A summary of accrued liabilities at December 31, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
11.
              
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN
 
The Company sponsors a 401(k) plan for employees who meet certain minimum eligibility requirements. Retirement plan expense included in continuing operations was approximately $1.2 million and $1.0 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
12.
              
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS
 
ASC Topic 718 (previously SFAS No. 123R, ), establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for share-based payment transactions with employees.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
In 2006, Atria Holdings LLC ("Holdings"), parent of the Company and a wholly owned subsidiary of LFSRI II, adopted an Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (the "LLC Agreement"). The primary revision adopted in the LLC Agreement was to create two authorized classes of membership interests in Holdings: Common Units and Participation Units. The holders of Common Units ("Common Members") have rights with respect to the management and operation of Holdings, as well as rights with respect to profits and losses and distributions. The holders of Participation Units ("Participation Members") have no rights with respect to the management and operation of Holdings, but do have rights with respect to profits and losses and distributions.
 
At the time of a qualifying sale of the Company, as defined in the LLC Agreement, Participation Members will be entitled to distributions based on formulas in the LLC Agreement. Distributions to Participation Members shall, to the extent practicable, be made in the same form of consideration as corresponding distributions to Common Members.
 
Participation Members' interests in Holdings are subject to certain terms and conditions pursuant to individual admission letters. While the terms and conditions of the individual admission letters vary, in general, the Participation Members must be employed by the Company when a qualifying sale occurs in order to be entitled to a distribution, unless terminated without cause, as defined in the LLC Agreement, prior to distributions, in which case the executive will be entitled to a portion of their interest based on a vesting schedule. The Participation Units vest one-third on December 31 in the year of grant with the remainder vesting on December 31 two years later. A change in control, as defined in the LLC Agreement, will result in 100% accelerated vesting of all Participation Units.
 
Valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, and changes in assumptions used can materially affect the fair value estimate. Expected volatility and dividends are based on implied and historical factors related to the Company's common stock and public competitors within the assisted-living industry. Expected term represents the estimated weighted-average duration that the Participation Units will be outstanding. Due to the limited number of Participation Members, the Company has assumed that all Participation Units outstanding as of December 31, 2010, will vest and none will be forfeited in determining the grant date fair value of the Participation Units.
 
As of December 31, 2010, 82 Participation Units were outstanding that were issued to certain key executives that are employed by the Company. A summary of the Participation Units issued to employees of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
The Participation Units that are outstanding as of December 31, 2010, include certain performance conditions that must be met in order for the Participation Members to receive a distribution. These performance conditions include a change of control or sale of the Company. Accruals of compensation expense for an award with a performance condition are to be accrued only if it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. The performance conditions associated with the Participation Units were not met or deemed probable as of December 31, 2010, and thus no expense has been recorded in the accompanying financial statements. If the performance conditions are met or deemed to be met in a future period the Company would be required to record additional expense totaling $7.9 million based on the Participation Units outstanding as of December 31, 2010.
 
13.
              
GENERAL, PROFESSIONAL AND WORKER'S COMPENSATION LIABILITY RESERVES
 
RCI Insurance Company ("RCI") is a wholly owned captive insurance company domiciled in South Carolina and is consolidated in the accompanying financial statements. RCI insures general and professional liability risks of the Company in excess of a $100,000 deductible that is retained by the Company. RCI insures claims up to $1.0 million per claim, above the deductible, and $3.0 million in the aggregate. Funding for RCI is based upon actuarial evaluations of claims and industry trends.
 
Even though the Company funds certain amounts to RCI to pay potential claims, the Company retains various levels of professional and general liability risks. The financial statements include estimates of the ultimate costs for both reported and incurred but not reported claims. The Company has also purchased separate umbrella coverage to cover risk exposures in excess of RCI limits.
 
Currently, claims against the Company are in various stages of adjudication and/or litigation, some of which may result in payment from RCI. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of claims incurred to date should not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operations of the Company.
 
The Company is primarily self-insured for worker's compensation and employee medical costs. Estimated costs and liabilities associated with these self-insurance programs are determined using actuarial models based on the Company's claim history and estimates of ultimate losses.
 
14.
              
CONTINGENCIES AND GUARANTEES
 
The Company is subject to claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that any liability resulting from these matters, after taking into consideration its insurance coverages and amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
 
The Company has made certain guarantees to third parties, particularly related to communities that have been sold. These guarantees may survive the expiration of the term of the agreement or extend into perpetuity (unless subject to a legal statute of limitations). There are no specific limitations on the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees, as the triggering events are not subject to predictability. The Company believes the likelihood of any losses resulting from these guarantees, including the affect of insurance coverages that would mitigate any potential payments, is remote, and historically the Company has not been required to make payments under these guarantees.
15.
              
VENTAS TRANSACTION
 
On October 21, 2010, the Company announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to merge its real estate with Ventas, Inc., a healthcare real estate investment trust. As part of this transaction, Ventas, Inc. will acquire the majority of the Company's senior living communities. Subject to certain approvals, the transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2011.
 
16.
              
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
The Company's financial statements are available for issuance as of February 16, 2011. Any subsequent events have been evaluated through this date.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
One Lantern Senior Living Inc and Subsidiaries
 
Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, and Independent Auditors' Report
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Board of Directors One Lantern Senior Living Inc Louisville, Kentucky
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of One Lantern Senior Living Inc and subsidiaries (the "Company"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the years then ended.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
 
February 16, 2011
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
(Continued)
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
(1)
  
The following represent assets of consolidated Variable Interest Entities ("VIE") as of December 31, 2010 which can only be used to settle obligations of the VIE: Cash and cash equivalents  $1.2 million, Restricted cash  current  $0.7 million, Resident accounts receivable  $0.3 million, Other current assets  $0.2 million, Property and equipment  $18.2 million, Restricted cash and other noncurrent assets  $1.1 million.
 
(2)
  
The following represents liabilities of VIE as of December 31, 2010 for which the creditors do not have recourse to the general liability of the Company: Accounts payable  $0.4 million, Accrued liabilities  $5.6 million, Due to affiliates  $0.5 million, Long-term debt (current and noncurrent)  $9.1 million, Other long-term liabilities  $0.6 million.
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands, except share amounts)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands)
 
 
(Continued)
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
(In thousands)
 
 
ONE LANTERN SENIOR LIVING INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND 2009
 
1.
                     
THE COMPANY AND BACKGROUND
 
Organization
  One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("OLSL INC") and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a wholly owned subsidiary of Lazard Senior Housing Partners LP ("LSHP"), a real estate opportunity fund formed for the purpose of making debt and/or equity investments in senior housing assets located in the United States.
 
Background
  As of December 31, 2010, the Company owned, operated, or managed 31 communities located in the Northeastern United States with a total of 3,097 units. Of the 31 communities, 16 were owned by the Company, 11 were operated by the Company pursuant to lease agreements, and two were managed by the Company on behalf of third parties. The Company also manages two communities in which it has a partial equity interest.
 
The Company owns a 72.09% interest in SG Senior Living LLC ("SGSL LLC") as the managing member and LSHP Coinvestment Partnership I LP ("Coinvestment Partnership") indirectly holds the remaining 27.91% membership interest. As of December 31, 2010, SGSL LLC owned and operated 12 properties.
 
Related Party Management Agreements
  LSHP, Coinvestment Partnership, and Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") are parties to a Master Agreement under which LSHP engaged Atria to provide certain management, operating and loan servicing activities for the investments made by LSHP. A majority of the partner capital interests in LSHP and Coinvestment Partnership also hold partnership interests in certain of the real estate opportunity funds that indirectly hold interests in Atria. Under the terms of the Master Agreement, any new facilities acquired by LSHP, which are not already encumbered by an existing third party management agreement, will be added to this arrangement. The Master Agreement has an initial term of 10 years (expiring July 2015) with automatic one year renewal periods thereafter, and establishes standardized terms for the facilities which Atria is engaged to provide services (the "Facility Management Agreements").
 
As defined in the Facility Management Agreements, during the initial 24 months that a facility is owned, Atria receives a management fee of 5% of cash revenue. After this initial period, Atria receives a management fee of 3% to 5% of cash revenue based on the operating margins of the facilities. The Facility Management Agreements also require the Company to reimburse Atria for the payroll and related costs of on-site employees as well as certain other costs that are incurred by Atria. These reimbursements are in addition to the management fees and are shown as managed facility reimbursed expenses on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
2.
                     
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Basis of Presentation
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the Company's majority-owned subsidiaries and all variable interest entities where the Company is considered the primary beneficiary. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated. Investments in entities not controlled by ownership or contractual obligations are accounted for under the equity method.
 
As discussed in Note 4, the Company has presented certain operations on a discontinued basis.
Variable Interest Entities
  The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 167, ), addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities ("VIE"). A VIE is subject to the consolidation provisions if it cannot support its financial activities without additional subordinated financial support from third parties or its equity investors lack any one of the following characteristics: the ability to make decisions about its activities through voting rights, the obligation to absorb losses of the entity if they occur, or the right to receive residual returns of the entity if they occur. A VIE is required to be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the party that (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. For the purposes of determining a primary beneficiary, all related party interests must be combined with the actual interests of the Company in the VIE.
Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)
 
The Company owns a 1% general partner interest in Marland Place Associates LP ("Marland Place") that meets the definition of a VIE. Marland Place owns one assisted living facility. The Company has determined that it is the primary beneficiary of this VIE and has consolidated the VIE as part of these financial statements. The only consolidated asset that represents collateral for the VIE is the building, with a net book value of approximately $15.0 million and $15.5 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The creditors have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. Intercompany amounts and balances have been eliminated.
 
For a portion of 2009, the Company had a variable interest in five legal entities that operated five of its communities. These operators were licensed by the New York State Department of Health ("NYSDOH") and were owned by individuals that were not associated with the Company or related entities. The operators operated these facilities under long-term leases with subsidiaries of the Company. The operators were VIEs and the Company consolidated the VIEs as it was the primary beneficiary. The operating agreements with four of these operators were terminated on August 31, 2009 and one was terminated on September 30, 2009. These VIEs were no longer consolidated as of the respective termination dates. There were no consolidated assets that represented collateral for the VIEs and the creditors had no recourse to the general credit of the Company. All intercompany amounts and balances have been eliminated.
 
Upon the termination of the operating agreements referenced above, OLSL New York Operating Company LLC ("OLSL NYOC") became the operator of these communities. OLSL NYOC is also the operator for one additional community. OLSL NYOC is 100% owned by an individual that is a director of both the Company and Atria. These facilities are operated under long-term lease agreements with subsidiaries of the Company. OLSL NYOC is considered a VIE and the Company has consolidated the operations of these six communities as it has determined that it is the primary beneficiary. There are no consolidated assets that represent collateral for OLSL NYOC as of December 31, 2010 and the creditors have no recourse to the general credit of the Company. All intercompany amounts and balances have been eliminated.
 
Use of Estimates
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Revenues
  Revenues are recognized when services are rendered and consist principally of monthly resident fees and fees for other ancillary services. Payments received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue, which is included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Residence and service agreements are for a term of one year, and are cancellable with 30 to 60 day notice from either party. Revenues from management contracts are recognized in the period earned in accordance with the terms of the management agreement.
 
Substantially all revenues are derived from private pay sources. Amounts due from residents are stated at net realizable value. The allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $400,000 and $690,000, respectively.
 
Advertising Costs
  The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense included in assisted and independent living operating expenses and managed facility reimbursed expenses was approximately $1.9 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Noncontrolling Interest
  The Company shows income or losses attributable to noncontrolling interests separately on the consolidated statements of operations. Income attributable to the noncontrolling interests is based on the non-wholly owned subsidiaries' ultimate share of the economics. Losses are attributed to the noncontrolling interests even if that attribution results in a deficit noncontrolling interest balance.
 
Third-Party and Affiliate Management Agreements
  At December 31, 2010, the Company had management agreements with two properties in which it has a partial equity interest and two managed communities. Under these agreements, the Company receives a base management fee ranging from 3% to 4% of cash revenue, plus additional incentive fees for three of the properties based on the operating margins of the individual facilities. These revenues are recorded as management fees on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Management fees related to one consolidated community (Marland Place) have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
The Company sub-contracts the majority of its responsibilities under these agreements to Atria under the terms of the Facility Management Agreements.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
  Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates its fair value.
 
Restricted Cash  Current
  Restricted cash  current includes insurance, real estate taxes, interest, and repair escrows held by third party lenders that will be disbursed in twelve months or less. Also included are replacement reserves to be released to the Company by third party lenders in the next twelve months as reimbursement for amounts previously expended by the Company for capital items.
 
Accounting for Acquisitions and Intangibles
  The Company accounts for business combinations under the purchase method. Accordingly, the aggregate purchase price of business combinations is allocated to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values. Estimates are based upon historical, financial, and market information.
Intangible assets consist of the following at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
The Company is a party to certain property tax abatement agreements that allow the Company to pay reduced property taxes on certain facilities. All property tax abatement agreements are amortized from the date of acquisition until the fiscal year in which real property taxes will be assessed at 100%.
 
In 2009, the Company wrote off the balance of fully amortized in-place leases in the amount of approximately $24.3 million. Amortization expense for intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $1.5 million and $9.3 million, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is approximately $1.4 million in 2011, $1.2 million in 2012, $0.8 million in 2013, $0.6 million in 2014 and $0.4 million in 2015.
 
Long-lived Assets
  Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation expense is computed by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as follows: buildings (40 years), building improvements (520 years), and furniture and equipment (310 years). Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or useful life. Repairs and maintenance expense included in assisted and independent living operating expenses was approximately $3.8 million and $4.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Property and equipment consists of the following at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
Depreciation expense was approximately $21.1 million and $20.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Assets held under capital leases are included in the amounts above and consist of the following at December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
In January 2009, the Company purchased a community for approximately $70.0 million which was previously accounted for as a capital lease. This property and the related obligation were originally recorded at approximately $95.0 million, which represented the amount originally due under put and call options. An adjustment was made as of December 31, 2008 to reduce the capital lease obligation and property and equipment by approximately $25.0 million to reflect the reduction in purchase price.
 
In September 2009, the Company purchased two communities for approximately $53.5 million which were previously accounted for as capital leases. The properties and the related obligations were originally recorded at approximately $84.0 million, which represented the amount originally due under put and call options. An adjustment of approximately $30.5 million was made to the capital lease obligations and property and equipment to reflect the reduction in purchase price.
 
The Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions in ASC Topic 360 (previously Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, ). This guidance requires that intangible assets and long-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company regularly reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets with respect to any events or circumstances that indicate impairment or that depreciation estimates may require adjustment. If such circumstances suggest the recorded amounts are more than the sum of the undiscounted cash flows, the carrying values of such assets are reduced to fair market value. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value of the assets less cost to sell. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company does not believe that the carrying value or the depreciation periods of its intangible assets and long-lived assets require any material adjustment.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets
 
ASC Topic 410 (previously SFAS No. 143, ) addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement cost. This guidance applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and/or the normal operation of a long-lived asset, except for certain obligations of leases. The fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation must be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. The liability is discounted and accretion expense is recognized using the credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate in effect when the liability was initially recognized. An entity is required to recognize a liability for a legal obligation to perform asset retirement activities when the retirement is conditional on a future event and if the liability's fair value can be
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
reasonably estimated. This standard has not had a material effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company is currently evaluating potential investments in its existing properties that could result in significant future capital improvements to certain of the Company's facilities. It is possible that the estimates used by the Company in accounting for its obligations could change in the near term depending on the timing of the projects approved in the future.
 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, substantially all of the Company's property and equipment is collateralized under long-term debt and lease arrangements.
 
Investments
  The Company has a 23.25% investment in Broadway/Browne, LLC which holds a .01% general partner interest in Maplewood Place Associates, LP, which owns a single assisted living facility. Broadway/Browne, LLC has no other significant assets or operations and is accounted for on the equity basis of accounting. This investment is included in investment in joint venture on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
Leases
  Leases that substantially transfer all of the benefits and risks of ownership of property to the Company, or otherwise meet the criteria for capitalizing a lease in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, are accounted for as capital leases. Property and equipment recorded under capital leases are depreciated on the same basis as other property and equipment of the same nature. Amortization related to capital leases is included in the consolidated statements of operations within depreciation and amortization expense. Rental payments under operating leases are expensed as incurred.
 
Deferred Financing Costs
  Costs incurred in connection with obtaining financing are deferred and amortized (included in interest expense) over the life of the related long-term debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method. Deferred financing costs are presented net of accumulated amortization of approximately $3.0 million and $1.7 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Restricted Cash and Other Noncurrent Assets
  Long-term restricted cash totaled approximately $17.4 million and $18.5 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which includes funds held for interest reserves, operating expense reserves, debt service reserves, and repair and replacement reserve escrows that are not expected to be disbursed to the Company within twelve months. Also included are money market funds held by Charles Channel Indemnity Inc. ("CCI"), a wholly owned captive insurance company, and Mystic River Insurance Inc ("MRI"), a majority-owned captive insurance company. Other noncurrent assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were composed primarily of approximately $8.7 million and $11.8 million, respectively, of security and other deposits, and approximately $1.5 million and $9.0 million, respectively, related to the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
 
Income Taxes
  The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recorded to adjust net deferred tax assets to the amount which management believes will more likely than not be recoverable. In making such determination, management considers available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the implementation of prudent tax planning strategies. In the event that the Company is able to utilize its
 
deferred tax assets in excess of their recorded amount, the valuation allowance will be reduced with a corresponding reduction to income tax expense.
 
ASC Topic 740 (previously FASB Interpretation No. 48, ) prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions that the Company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. ASC Topic 740 provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the income tax position. Income tax positions must meet a more likely than not recognition threshold to be recognized. The Company adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2009 and the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
  The Company accounts for derivatives according to ASC Topic 815 (previously SFAS No. 133, ), which requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and to measure those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative are recorded each period in current earnings or in other comprehensive income depending on the intended use of the derivative and the Company's designation of the instrument.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
The Company's derivative financial instruments include interest rate swaps and interest rate caps which are not used for trading or speculative purposes. These derivatives were not designated as having a hedging relationship with their underlying securities, and therefore the Company did not qualify for hedge accounting for book accounting purposes. The Company's interest rate swaps and interest rate caps are recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Changes in fair value are recorded in current earnings as separately stated in the accompanying statements of operations.
 
Fair Value Measurements
  ASC Topic 820 (previously SFAS No. 157, ) defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures required for fair value measurements. This guidance defines a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels. These levels, in order of highest to lowest priority, are described below:
Fair Value Measurements
 
Level 1
  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities.
 
Level 2
  Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
 
Level 3
  Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 includes values determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques reflecting the Company's own assumptions.
 
The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair value disclosures for financial instruments:
 
Interest Rate Caps
  The fair value is determined with the assistance of a third party using forward yield curves and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving comparable instruments.
 
Interest Rate Swaps
  The fair value is derived using hypothetical market transactions involving comparable instruments, as well as alternative financing rates derived from market based financing rates, forward yield curves, discount rates, and the Company's own credit risk.
 
The Company adopted ASC Topic 820 (previously FASB Staff Position FAS 157-2, ) for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities in 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
 
The Company also adopted ASC Topic 825 (previously SFAS No. 159, ), as of January 1, 2008, which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. In addition, it also establishes recognition, presentation, and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. The Company has not made any fair value elections with respect to any of its eligible assets or liabilities as of December 31, 2010.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
  In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 820, , which requires additional disclosures to recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. A reporting entity is required to disclose significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2, and describe the reason for those transfers. Additionally, an entity is to present separately, on a gross basis, information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements pertaining to the activity in Level 3. The guidance also clarifies the level of disaggregation and disclosures about input and valuation techniques used to determine Level 2 and Level 3 measurements. The ASC Topic 820 update is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009 (except for the requirement to separately disclose purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the Level 3 roll forward, which becomes effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2010). The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Improving Disclosure about Fair Value Measurements
 
ASC Topic 805 (previously SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), ) provides guidance for the way companies account for business combinations. This guidance requires transaction-related costs to be expensed as incurred, which were previously accounted for as a cost of acquisition. ASC Topic 805 also requires acquirers to estimate the acquisition-date fair value of any contingent consideration and to recognize any subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration in earnings. In addition, restructuring costs the acquirer was not obligated to incur shall be recognized separately from the business acquisition. The Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Business Combinations
 
ASC Topic 810 (previously SFAS No. 160, ) requires all entities to report noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements. A single method of accounting has been established for changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that does not result in deconsolidation. Companies will no longer recognize a gain or loss on partial disposals of a subsidiary where control is retained. In addition, in partial acquisitions, where control is obtained, the acquiring company will recognize and measure at fair value 100% of the assets and liabilities, including goodwill, as if the entire target company had been acquired. The Company has reported noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries as a separate component of equity and has adjusted net income for the comparative periods presented to include the amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statement  an Amendment of ARB No. 51
 
3.
                     
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
The Company has various agreements with related parties. As described in Note 1, each of the Company's properties is managed by Atria pursuant to individual Facility Management Agreements. During 2010 and 2009, the Company incurred management fee expenses of approximately $9.0 million and $8.3 million, respectively, payable to Atria under these agreements. Additionally, reimbursements to Atria for payroll and related expenses, as well as other expenses incurred by Atria on behalf of the Company, totaled approximately $61.5 million and $59.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company owed Atria approximately $3.9 million and $7.5 million, respectively, related to the management fees and reimbursable expenses. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, Atria and the communities managed by the Company owed the Company approximately $13,000 and $201,000, respectively.
 
For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, Atria charged the Company approximately $191,000 and $227,000, respectively, for residents that were relocated from two of the Company's facilities to an Atria facility.
 
4.
                     
ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
Assets qualifying as "held for sale" are required to be recorded at the lower of their carrying value or fair value, less costs to sell, and must be classified separately on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. In addition, operating results or cash flows for communities either sold or held for sale are required to be classified as discontinued operations in the Company's accompanying consolidated statements of operations or cash flows.
 
In January 2009, the Company cancelled the lease on one property and transferred ownership of the operations back to the lessor and the following amounts were segregated from continuing operations and included in discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):
 
 
5.
                     
LEASES
 
Capital Leases
  As of December 31, 2010, the Company operated 11 communities pursuant to lease arrangements that were accounted for as capital leases. One of the leases requires the payment of additional rent based on a percentage increase of gross revenues. Leases are subject to increase based upon changes in Consumer Price Index or gross revenues, subject to certain limits, as defined in the individual lease agreements. The capital lease agreements contain bargain purchase options to purchase the leased property and the option to exercise renewal terms.
Future minimum lease payments required under the capital lease agreements, including amounts that would be due under purchase options as of December 31, 2010, are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The Company has a lease agreement which allows the Company to purchase eight of its communities. The option price is the greater of the landlord's investment amount of approximately $82.4 million or the sum of the landlord's investment amount plus 34% of the difference between the fair market value at the time the option is exercised and the landlord's investment amount. This option is exercisable at the end of the initial or renewal terms and is first exercisable in 2019.
 
In March 2010, the Company amended a lease agreement and exercised its purchase option for two of its communities. The original purchase option prices were based on the landlord's investment amounts plus increases in the Consumer Price Index occurring after the landlord's investment. The amendment altered the purchase option to a fixed amount of approximately $26.8 million with a closing date between 2013 and 2020. The lease also encompassed an additional community which had a purchase option equal to the fair market value minus 50% of the amount by which such fair market value exceeded $5.0 million. The amendment altered the purchase option to a fixed amount of approximately $10.2 million which is exercisable in 2012. These amendments did not result in a change to the capital lease classification.
 
For a portion of 2009, the Company operated four properties pursuant to nonrenewable five to ten year lease agreements that were accounted for as capital leases. Three of these properties were purchased during 2009 and one lease was cancelled in 2009.
 
The fair value of the Company's capital leases has been estimated based on current rates offered for debt with the same remaining maturities and comparable collateralizing assets. Changes in assumptions or methodologies used to make estimates may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company estimated that the fair value of its capital lease obligations approximated $153.3 million and $151.5 million, respectively.
Operating Leases
  The Company owns one property that is subject to a 99 year ground lease. Future minimum lease payments required under this operating lease agreement as of December 31, 2010, are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $3.8 million in outstanding letters of credit (the "L/Cs") securing lease obligations. The lessors may draw upon the L/Cs if there are defaults under the related leases. The L/Cs expire between September and November 2011. One L/C is secured by a certificate of deposit that is included in restricted cash and other noncurrent assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  The second L/C is secured by a restricted cash depository account at the issuing bank.
 
6.
                     
LONG-TERM DEBT AND BONDS PAYABLE
 
A summary of long-term debt and bonds payable at December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
In January 2009, the Company purchased one facility for approximately $70.0 million which was previously accounted for as a capital lease. The purchase was primarily financed through the assumption of approximately $47.0 million of existing financing and a $22.8 million capital contribution. The Company paid off the approximately $47.0 million loan in September 2009 by refinancing the existing debt with a $46.8 million loan bearing 6.23% fixed interest with a 10 year maturity. The Company recognized an approximately $11,400 loss on debt extinguishment.
 
In September 2009, the Company purchased two communities that were previously accounted for as capital leases. As part of these purchases, the Company assumed bonds payable totaling approximately $12.9 million and bearing interest at 8.25%. The bonds mature in October 2026 with principal payable annually beginning in September 2011. The Company also assumed approximately $37.7 million of mortgage notes payable bearing interest at 6.52%. The mortgage note matures in August 2017.
 
In September 2009, the Company modified two of its loan agreements. An approximately $17.5 million loan with an original maturity of August 2009 was extended until February 2013. As part of the modification, the Company made a principal payment of approximately $5.0 million on the loan. Interest is payable monthly at LIBOR plus 2.70% with principal payable at maturity. Additionally, an approximately $52.4 million mezzanine loan with an original maturity of August 2009 was extended until February 2013. As part of the modification, the Company made a principal payment of approximately $37.5 million on the loan. Interest is payable monthly at LIBOR plus 3.95% with periodic principal payments beginning in February 2011. The amendment was not considered a substantial modification in accordance with ASC Topic 470, .
Debt Modifications and Extinguishments
 
The construction of five of the Company's properties was financed through the issuance of Industrial Development Revenue Bonds. The Company has recorded obligations on the accompanying balance sheets for outstanding bond issues (the "Bonds Payable") as it is the primary obligor and has guaranteed the payments of these bonds. Interest on Bonds Payable is payable either quarterly or semiannually.
 
Under the debt and bond agreements, the Company is subject to various restrictive covenants including certain occupancy requirements. In order for the properties to qualify as "qualified residential rental projects" in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code (for the Bonds to maintain their tax-exempt status), at least 20% of the units must be made available to persons whose adjusted family income is 50% or less of the area median gross income (adjusted for family size). As of December 31, 2010, all of the communities were in compliance with the low-income requirements.
 
Aggregate maturities of long-term debt (inclusive of extension options) and bonds payable as of December 31, 2010, are as follows (in thousands):
 
The fair value of the Company's debt has been estimated based on current rates offered for debt with the same remaining maturities and comparable collateralizing assets. Changes in assumptions or methodologies used to make estimates may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company estimated that the fair value of its long-term debt and bonds payable approximated $517.4 million and $487.6 million, respectively.
 
Collateral for the mezzanine notes payable includes the One Lantern Senior Living LLC membership interests of the majority of SGSL LLC's subsidiaries which encompasses substantially all of the operations of SGSL LLC.
 
7.
                     
DERIVATIVES
 
The Company and Goldman Sachs Capital Markets, L.P. are parties to multiple total return interest rate swap agreements which effectively convert fixed rate Bonds Payable to variable rate obligations. Prior to September 2009, the swaps were scheduled to mature in 2011 and included interest payments based on a weighted average SIFMA Municipal Swap Index plus a 1.50% spread per annum.
 
In September 2009, the Company extended the existing total return interest rate swap agreements and entered into one additional swap agreement. The swaps are scheduled to mature in February 2013 and the interest rate was increased to SIFMA Municipal Swap Index plus a 2.50% spread per annum (2.84% at December 31, 2010). As of December 31, 2010, the notional amounts of the swap agreements total approximately $171.7 million with interest payable semi-annually.
 
In September 2009, the Company entered into two interest rate cap agreements with Goldman Sachs Mitsui Marine Derivative Products, L.P. on two of the variable rate mortgage loans. The Company paid an aggregate of $215,000 of fees under the terms of the agreements, which are in effect until February 2013. The interest rate cap agreements effectively limit the LIBOR Index rate under the loan agreements to a capped rate of 6.00% per annum. The interest rate cap agreements were assigned to Goldman Sachs Commercial Mortgage Company, L.P. as collateral under the individual loan agreements.
 
The Company entered into the total return interest rate swap agreements in order to mitigate the fair value risk associated with the underlying debt. The Company entered into the interest rate cap agreements in order to mitigate interest rate risk. Under ASC Topic 815, however, the Company did not qualify for hedge accounting. The fair values of the derivatives are recorded in other noncurrent assets and other long-term liabilities (see Note 8). Gains and losses associated with the derivatives are recorded in gain (loss) on derivative instruments.
 
The effect of derivative instruments on the consolidated statements of operations as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
8.
                     
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
The fair value of financial instruments as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the assets related to the fair value of interest rate swap and cap agreements were recorded in other noncurrent assets at approximately $1.5 million and $9.0 million, respectively. Liabilities related to the interest rate swap agreements were recorded in other long-term liabilities at approximately $13.3 million and $4.8 million, respectively. A net (loss) gain on derivative financial instruments of approximately ($16.0) million and $17.0 million was recorded in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively (see Note 7).
 
9.
                     
INCOME TAXES
 
The Company's effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was 0.0%.
 
A reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective income tax rate follows:
 
A summary of the deferred income taxes by source included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $82.8 million and $68.1 million, respectively, which expire in years 2025 through 2030.
 
At December 31, 2010, the Company has a valuation allowance of $54.3 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In determining the need for and the amount of the valuation allowance, the Company considered the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, and the implementation of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Although realization is not assured for the net deferred tax asset, management believes it is more likely than not that they will be utilized based on the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. If future taxable income is less than the amount that has been assumed in determining the deferred tax asset, then an increase in the valuation allowance will be required with a corresponding increase to income tax expense. Alternatively, if future taxable income exceeds the level that has been assumed in calculating the deferred tax asset, the valuation allowance could be reduced with the corresponding reduction to income tax expense. In 2010, the Company increased the valuation allowance by $11.1 million and recognized a corresponding expense. The increase in the valuation allowance was primarily due to a change in the estimated future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
 
The Company records interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as income tax expense. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had determined that no uncertain tax positions existed and thus, no interest or penalties were accrued.
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and various state and local jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2010, the Company's tax years for 2006 to 2010 are subject to examination by the tax authorities. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state, or local income tax examinations for years before 2006.
 
10.
              
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 
A summary of other current assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
A summary of accrued liabilities at December 31, 2010 and 2009, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
11.
              
INSURANCE
 
MRI is majority-owned by a subsidiary of the Company. MRI is a captive insurance company domiciled in South Carolina, which insures the general and professional liability risks of SGSL LLC in excess of a $100,000 deductible that is retained by the Company. MRI insures claims up to $1.0 million per claim, above the deductible, and $3.0 million in the aggregate. Funding for MRI is based upon actuarial evaluations of claims and industry trends.
 
CCI, a captive insurance company domiciled in South Carolina, is wholly owned by the Company and is consolidated in the accompanying financial statements. CCI insures the general and professional liability risks of the Company (other than SGSL LLC, which is insured by MRI) in excess of a $100,000 deductible that is retained by the Company. CCI insures claims up to $1.0 million per claim, above the deductible, and $3.0 million in the aggregate. Funding for CCI is based upon actuarial evaluations of claims and industry trends.
Even though the Company funds certain amounts to CCI and MRI to pay potential claims, the Company retains various levels of professional and general liability risks. The Company accrues estimates of the ultimate costs for both reported claims and incurred but not reported claims payable by the Company. The Company has also purchased separate umbrella coverage to cover risk exposures in excess of CCI and MRI limits.
 
Currently, claims against the Company are in various stages of adjudication and/or litigation, some of which may result in payment from CCI and MRI. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of claims incurred to date should not have a material adverse effect on the financial position, liquidity or operations of the Company.
 
12.
              
INTEGRATION-RELATED EXPENSES
 
The Company incurred approximately $0.6 million of expense in 2009 for integration costs associated with its acquisitions. These expenses related primarily to transitional expenses incurred for licensing services.
 
13.
              
CONTINGENCIES AND GUARANTEES
 
The Company is subject to claims and legal actions in the ordinary course of its business. The Company believes that any liability resulting from these matters, after taking into consideration its insurance coverages and amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
The Company has made certain guarantees to third parties. These guarantees may survive the expiration of the term of the agreements or extend into perpetuity (unless subject to a legal statute of limitations). There are no specific limitations on the maximum potential amount of future payments to be made under these guarantees, as the triggering events are not subject to predictability. The Company believes the likelihood of any losses resulting from these guarantees is remote.
 
The Company and certain partners have guaranteed certain obligations of Maplewood Place, a non-consolidated entity. These guarantees include the payment of a monthly replacement reserve deposit in the amount of $3,474 if not paid by Maplewood Place. Additionally, the Company and certain partners have guaranteed to make payments in the event of certain tax credit recapture events. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, no payments were required under these guarantees and the fair value of these guarantees was not material.
 
14.
              
VENTAS TRANSACTION
 
On October 21, 2010, the Company announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to merge its real estate with Ventas, Inc., a healthcare real estate investment trust. As part of this transaction, Ventas, Inc. will acquire all of the Company's senior living communities. Subject to certain approvals, the transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2011.
 
15.
              
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
The Company's financial statements are available for issuance as of February 16, 2011. Any subsequent events have been evaluated through this date.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule  Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Nationwide Health Properties, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Organization
 
Nationwide Health Properties, Inc., a Maryland corporation, is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") that invests in healthcare related real estate, primarily senior housing, long-term care properties and medical office buildings. Whenever we refer herein to "NHP" or to "us" or use the terms "we" or "our," we are referring to Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.
 
We primarily make our investments by acquiring an ownership interest in senior housing and long-term care facilities and leasing them to unaffiliated tenants under "triple-net" "master" leases that transfer the obligation for all facility operating costs (including maintenance, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures) to the tenant. We also invest in medical office buildings which are not generally subject to "triple-net" leases and generally have several tenants under separate leases in each building, thus requiring active management and responsibility for many of the associated operating expenses (although many of these are, or can effectively be, passed through to the tenants). Some of the medical office buildings are subject to "triple-net" leases. In addition, but to a much lesser extent because we view the risks of this activity to be greater due to less favorable bankruptcy treatment and other factors, from time to time, we extend mortgage loans and other financing to operators. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, approximately 93% of our revenues were derived from leases, with the remaining 7% from mortgage loans, other financing activities and other miscellaneous income.
 
We believe we have operated in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). We intend to continue to qualify as such and therefore distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding capital gain) to our stockholders. If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, and we distribute 100% of our taxable income to our stockholders, we will generally not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes on our income that is distributed to stockholders. Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal income taxes.
 
As of December 31, 2010, we had investments in 663 healthcare facilities, one land parcel, two development projects and two assets held for sale located in 42 states, consisting of:
 
As of December 31, 2010, our directly owned facilities, other than our multi-tenant medical office buildings, were operated by 88 different healthcare providers, including the following publicly traded companies:
 
 
One of our triple-net lease tenants accounted for more than 10% of our revenues at December 31, 2010, as follows:
 
 
2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Basis of Presentation
 
Certain items in prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation, including those required by the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 360, ("ASC 360"), which require the operating results of any assets with their own identifiable cash flows that are disposed of or held for sale and in which we have no continuing interest to be removed from income from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
We have evaluated events subsequent to December 31, 2010 for their impact on our consolidated financial statements (see Note 24).
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts, the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of our joint ventures that are controlled through voting rights or other means. We apply the provisions of ASC Topic 810, ("ASC 810"), for arrangements with variable interest entities ("VIEs") and would consolidate those VIEs where we are the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Consolidation
 
Our judgment with respect to our level of influence or control of an entity and whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE involves the consideration of various factors including, but not limited to, the form of our ownership interest, our representation on the entity's governing body, the size of our investment, estimates of future cash flows, our ability to participate in policy-making decisions and the rights of the other investors to participate in the decision-making process and to replace us as manager and/or liquidate the venture, if applicable. Our ability to correctly assess our influence or control over an entity or determine the primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated financial statements.
 
As of December 31, 2010, we leased ten facilities under triple-net leases with fixed price purchase options through eight wholly owned, consolidated subsidiaries that have been identified as VIEs and for which we have been identified as the primary beneficiary. The carrying value of the facilities was $108.5 million as of December 31, 2010, and the purchase options are exercisable between 2011 and 2021.
We apply the provisions of ASC Topic 323,  ("ASC 323"), to investments in joint ventures. Investments in entities that we do not consolidate but for which we have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, our share of the entity's earnings or losses is included in our operating results.
Investments  Equity Method and Joint
Ventures
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
 
Segment Reporting
 
We report our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 280, . We operate in two segments based on our investment and leasing activities: triple-net leases and multi-tenant leases (see Note 20).
Segment Reporting
 
Revenue Recognition
 
We derive the majority of our revenue from leases related to our real estate investments and a much smaller portion of our revenue from mortgage loans, other financing activities and other miscellaneous income. Revenue is recognized when it is realized or is realizable and earned.
 
Rental income from operating leases is recognized in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 840, and ASC Topic 605, . Our leases generally contain annual rent escalators. Many of our leases contain non-contingent rent escalators for which we recognize income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Recognizing income on a straight-line basis requires us to calculate the total non-contingent rent to be paid over the life of a lease and to recognize the revenue evenly over that life. This method results in rental income in the early years of a lease being higher than actual cash received, creating a straight-line rent receivable asset included in the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. At some point during the lease, depending on its terms, the cash rent payments eventually exceed the straight-line rent which results in the straight-line rent receivable asset decreasing to zero over the remainder of the lease term. Certain leases contain rent escalators contingent on revenues or other factors, including increases based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. Such revenue increases are recognized as the related contingencies are met.
Leases,
Revenue Recognition
 
We assess the collectability of straight-line rent in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and our reserve policy and defer recognition of straight-line rent if its collectability is not reasonably assured. Our assessment of the collectability of straight-line rent is based on several factors, including the financial strength of the tenant and any guarantors, the historical operations and operating trends of the facility, the historical payment pattern of the tenant and the type of facility, among others. If our evaluation of these factors indicates we may not receive the rent payments due in the future, we defer recognition of the straight-line rental income and, depending on the circumstances, we will provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion, up to its full value, that we estimate may not be recoverable. If we change our assumptions or estimates regarding the collectability of future rent payments required by a lease, we may adjust our reserve to increase or reduce the rental revenue recognized, and/or to increase or reduce the reserve against the existing straight-line rent receivable balance.
We recorded $12.3 million of revenues in excess of cash received during 2010, $6.4 million of revenues in excess of cash received during 2009 and $10.3 million of revenues in excess of cash received during 2008. We had straight-line rent receivables, net of reserves, recorded under the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets of $39.3 million as of December 31, 2010 and $27.5 million as of December 31, 2009, net of reserves of $114.7 million and $108.3 million, respectively. We evaluate the collectability of the straight-line rent receivable balances on an ongoing basis and provide reserves against receivables we believe may not be fully recoverable. The ultimate amount of straight-line rent we realize could vary from the amounts currently recorded.
 
Interest income from loans, including discounts and premiums, is recognized using the effective interest method when collectability is reasonably assured. The effective interest method is applied on a loan-by-loan basis, and discounts and premiums are recognized as yield adjustments over the term of the related loans. We recognize interest income on impaired loans to the extent our estimate of the fair value of the collateral is sufficient to support the balance of the loans, other receivables and all related accrued interest. Once the total of the loans, other receivables and all related accrued interest is equal to our estimate of the fair value of the collateral, we recognize interest income on a cash basis. We provide reserves against impaired loans to the extent our total investment exceeds our estimate of the fair value of the loan collateral.
 
We recognize sales of facilities upon closing. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits. Gains on facilities sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when the requirements of gain recognition on sale of real estate under the provisions of ASC 360 are met, including: the collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured; we have received adequate initial investment from the buyer; we are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the gain; and other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy these requirements. We had $20.3 million and $19.3 million of deferred gains included in the caption "Mortgage loans receivable, net" on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.
 
Gains on facilities sold to unconsolidated joint ventures in which we maintain an ownership interest are included in income from continuing operations, and the portion of the gain representing our retained ownership interest in the joint venture is deferred and included in the caption "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets. We had $15.3 million of such deferred gains as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. All other gains are included in discontinued operations.
 
Investments in Real Estate
 
We record properties at cost and use the straight-line method of depreciation for buildings and improvements over their estimated remaining useful lives of up to 40 years, generally 20 to 40 years depending on factors including building type, age, quality and location. We review and adjust useful lives periodically. Depreciation expense from continuing operations was $117.2 million in 2010, $105.7 million in 2009 and $100.9 million in 2008.
 
We allocate purchase prices of properties in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 805, ("ASC 805"), which require that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business combination. ASC 805 also establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. Certain transaction costs that have historically been capitalized as acquisition costs are expensed for business combinations completed on or after January 1, 2009, which may have a significant impact on our future results of operations and financial position based on historical acquisition costs and activity levels. We incurred $5.1 million and $0.8 million of acquisition costs during 2010 and 2009, respectively, that are included on our consolidated income statements.
Business Combinations
The allocation of the cost between land, building and, if applicable, equipment and intangible assets and liabilities, and the determination of the useful life of a property are based on management's estimates, which are based in part on independent appraisals or other consultants' reports. For our triple-net leased facilities, the allocation is made as if the property was vacant, and a significant portion of the cost of each property is allocated to buildings. This amount generally approximates 90% of the total property value. Historically, we have generally acquired properties and simultaneously entered into a new market rate lease for the entire property with one tenant. For our multi-tenant medical office buildings, the percentage allocated to buildings may be substantially lower as allocations are made to assets such as lease-up intangible assets, above market tenant and ground lease intangible assets and in-place lease intangible assets (collectively, "Intangible assets") included on our consolidated balance sheets and/or below market tenant and ground lease intangible liabilities included in the caption "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets.
 
We calculate depreciation and amortization on equipment and lease costs using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives of up to five years or the lease term, whichever is appropriate. We amortize intangible assets and liabilities over the remaining lease terms of the respective leases to real estate amortization expense or medical office building operating rent, as appropriate. We review and adjust useful lives periodically.
 
We capitalize direct costs, including interest costs, associated with the development and construction of real estate assets while substantive activities are ongoing to prepare the assets for their intended use.
 
Asset Impairment
 
We review our long-lived assets individually on a quarterly basis to determine if there are indicators of impairment in accordance with the provisions of ASC 360. Indicators may include, among others, a tenant's inability to make rent payments, operating losses or negative operating trends at the facility level, notification by a tenant that it will not renew its lease, or a decision to dispose of an asset or adverse changes in the fair value of any of our properties. For operating assets, if indicators of impairment exist, we compare the undiscounted cash flows from the expected use of the property to its net book value to determine if impairment exists. The evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows from the related lease agreement and expected use of the property is highly subjective and is based in part on various factors and assumptions, including, but not limited to, historical operating results, available market information and known trends and market/economic conditions that may affect the property, as well as estimates of future operating income, occupancy, rental rates, leasing demand and competition. If the sum of the future estimated undiscounted cash flows is higher than the current net book value, we conclude no impairment exists. If the sum of the future estimated undiscounted cash flows is lower than its current net book value, we recognize an impairment loss for the difference between the net book value of the asset and its estimated fair value. To the extent we decide to sell an asset, we recognize an impairment loss if the current net book value of the asset exceeds its fair value less selling costs.
 
We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture may exceed the fair value. If it is determined that a decline in the fair value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture is other-than-temporary, and if such reduced fair value is below its carrying value, an impairment is recorded. The determination of the fair value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures involves significant judgment. Our estimates consider all available evidence including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at market rates, general economic conditions and trends and other relevant factors.
 
The above analyses require us to determine whether there are indicators of impairment for individual assets or investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, to estimate the most likely stream of cash flows from operating assets and to determine the fair value of assets that are impaired or held for sale. If our assumptions, projections or
 
 
estimates regarding an asset change in the future, we may have to record an impairment charge to reduce or further reduce the net book value of such individual asset or investment in unconsolidated joint venture.
We recognized an impairment charge of $15.0 million related to one asset held for sale during 2010 (see Note 7). No impairments were recognized during 2009 or 2008.
 
Collectability of Receivables
 
We evaluate the collectability of our rent, mortgage and other loans and other receivables on a regular basis based on factors including, among others, payment history, the financial strength of the borrower and any guarantors, the value of the underlying collateral, the operations and operating trends of the underlying collateral, if any, the asset type and current economic conditions. If our evaluation of these factors indicates we may not recover the full value of the receivable, we provide a reserve against the portion of the receivable that we estimate may not be recovered. This analysis requires us to determine whether there are factors indicating a receivable may not be fully collectible and to estimate the amount of the receivable that may not be collected. We had reserves related to rent receivables included in the caption "Receivables, net" on our consolidated balance sheets of $14.9 million as of December 31, 2010 and $12.7 million as of December 31, 2009.
 
For our mortgage loans, the evaluation emphasizes the operations, operating trends, financial performance and value of the underlying collateral, and for our other loans, the evaluation emphasizes the financial strength of the borrower and any guarantors. Our year-end evaluation was performed using operating and financial information as of November 30, 2010, and based on this evaluation, our mortgage and other loans are grouped into three classes  good standing, watch list and special monitoring. For loans classified as good standing, the likelihood of loss is remote, and while borrowers may be current on all required payments for loans classified as watch list or special monitoring, there are other factors considered in our evaluation which cause the likelihood of loss to be reasonably possible. Our analysis did not identify any mortgage loans for which we believe we may not recover the full value of the receivable, and as such, no reserves for mortgage loans receivable have been recorded as of December 31, 2010. Our analysis identified certain other loans for which we believe we may not recover the full value of the receivable, and we have recorded $6.1 million of reserves for other loans receivable as of December 31, 2010. The balances of mortgage and other loans by class as of December 31, 2010 were as follow:
 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents include short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less when purchased.
 
Capital Raising Costs
 
Deferred financing costs are included in the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets and are amortized as a component of interest expense over the terms of the related borrowings using a method that approximates a level yield. Deferred financing cost amortization is included in the caption "Interest expense" on our consolidated income statements. Costs incurred in connection with the issuance of common stock are recorded as a reduction of capital in excess of par value.
 
Derivatives
 
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to financial market risks, including interest rate risk on our interest-bearing liabilities. We endeavor to limit these risks by following established risk management policies, procedures and strategies, including, on occasion, the use of derivative instruments. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
 
Derivative instruments are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets as assets or liabilities based on each instrument's fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognized currently in earnings, unless the derivative instrument meets the criteria for hedge accounting contained in ASC Topic 815, ("ASC 815"). If the derivative instruments meet the criteria for a cash flow hedge, the gains and losses recognized upon changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses on a cash flow hedge are reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. A contract that is designated as a hedge of an anticipated transaction which is no longer likely to occur is immediately recognized in earnings.
Derivatives and Hedging
 
For investments in entities reported under the equity method of accounting, we record our pro rata share of the entity's derivative instruments' fair value, other comprehensive income or loss and gains and losses determined in accordance with ASC 323 and ASC 815 as applicable.
 
Redeemable Limited Partnership Unitholder Interests
 
NHP/PMB L.P. ("NHP/PMB") is a limited partnership that we formed in February 2008 to acquire properties from entities affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC (see Note 5). We consolidate NHP/PMB consistent with the provisions of ASC 810, as our wholly owned subsidiary is the general partner and exercises control. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, third party investors owned 2,176,700 and 1,629,752 Class A limited partnership units in NHP/PMB ("OP Units"), respectively, which represented 32.0% and 52.4% of the total units outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, 4,619,330 and 1,482,713 Class B limited partnership units in NHP/PMB were outstanding, respectively, all of which were held by our subsidiaries. During 2010, 577,114 OP Units were issued by NHP/PMB in connection with acquisitions and under terms of an agreement with Pacific Medical Buildings and certain of its affiliates (see Note 5). After a one year holding period, the OP Units are exchangeable for cash or, at our option, shares of our common stock equal to the "REIT Shares Amount" per OP Unit. As of December 31, 2010, the REIT Shares Amount was 1.000. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with the holders of the OP Units which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, obligates us to register the shares of common stock that we may issue in exchange for such OP Units. As registration rights are outside of our control, the redeemable OP unitholder interests are classified outside of permanent equity on our consolidated balance sheets. During 2010, 30,166 OP Units were converted into 30,166 shares of our common stock. During 2009, 202,361 OP Units were exchanged for 202,361 shares of our common stock. We applied the provisions of ASC
Topic 480, , to reflect the redeemable OP unitholder interests at the greater of cost or fair value. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of the OP Units exceeded the cost basis by $16.8 million, and the adjustment was recorded through capital in excess of par value. The value of the OP Units held by redeemable OP unitholder interests was $79.2 million and $57.3 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.
Distinguishing Liabilities from
Equity
Noncontrolling Interests
 
We have four consolidated joint ventures in which we have equity interests, ranging from 71% to 95%, in nine multi-tenant medical office buildings and one development project (see Note 5).
 
NHP/PMB has equity interests, ranging from 50% to 69%, in three joint ventures which each own one multi-tenant medical office building (see Note 5). The joint ventures are consolidated by NHP/PMB, and we consolidate NHP/PMB in our consolidated financial statements.
 
We also have six partnerships in which we have equity interests, ranging from 51% to 96%, in 11 skilled nursing facilities, five assisted and independent living facilities, one continuing care retirement community and one specialty hospital (see Note 3). We consolidate the partnerships in our consolidated financial statements.
Stock-Based Compensation
 
We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 718, which require stock-based compensation awards to be valued at the fair value on the date of grant and amortized as an expense over the vesting period and require any dividend equivalents earned to be treated as dividends for financial reporting purposes. Net income reflects stock-based compensation expense of $6.9 million in 2010, $7.0 million in 2009 and $5.8 million in 2008.
Compensation-Stock Compensation,
 
Income Taxes
 
We intend to continue to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code, and accordingly, no provision has been made for federal income taxes. However, we are subject to certain state and local taxes on our income and/or property, and these amounts are included in the expense caption "General and administrative" on our consolidated income statements.
 
As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our compliance with REIT requirements. Our determinations are based on interpretation of tax laws, and our conclusions may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments to income tax expense may be required as a result of (i) audits conducted by federal and state tax authorities; (ii) our ability to qualify as a REIT; (iii) the potential for built-in-gain recognized related to prior-tax-free acquisitions of C corporations; and (iv) changes in tax laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included in income, other than adjustments to income tax liabilities acquired in business combinations, which would be adjusted through goodwill.
 
Earnings per Share (EPS)
 
Basic EPS is computed by dividing income from continuing operations available to common stockholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding. Income from continuing operations available to common stockholders is calculated by deducting amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests, amounts attributable to participating securities and dividends declared on preferred stock from income from continuing operations.
 
We apply the provisions of ASC Topic 260, , which require that the two-class method of computing basic earnings per share be applied when there are unvested share-based payment awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends outstanding during a reporting period. These participating securities share in undistributed earnings with common stockholders for purposes of calculating basic earnings per share.
Earnings per Share
 
Diluted EPS includes the effect of any potential shares outstanding, which for us is comprised of dilutive stock options, other share-settled compensation plans and, if the effect is dilutive, our 7.75% Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred Stock"), which was redeemed on January 18, 2010 (see Note 11) and/or OP Units. The dilutive effect of stock options and other share-settled compensation plans that do not contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends is calculated using the treasury stock method with an offset from expected proceeds upon exercise of the stock options and unrecognized compensation expense.
 
Fair Value
 
We apply the provisions of ASC Topic 820, ("ASC 820") to our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and to our nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are not required or permitted to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. ASC 820 also specifies a three-level hierarchy of valuation techniques based upon whether the inputs reflect assumptions other market participants would use based upon market data obtained from independent sources (observable inputs) or reflect our own assumptions of market participant valuation (unobservable inputs) and requires the use of observable inputs if such data is available without undue cost and effort. The hierarchy is as follows:
 
          
Level 1
 quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
 
          
Level 2
 observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, including quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and other derived valuations with significant inputs or value drivers that are observable or can be corroborated by observable inputs in active markets.
 
          
Level 3
 unobservable inputs or derived valuations with significant inputs or value drivers that are unobservable.
 
Fair value measurements as of December 31, 2010 are as follow:
 
 
Amounts related to our deferred compensation plan are invested in various financial assets, and the fair value of the corresponding assets and liabilities is based on market quotes. Interest rate swaps are valued using standard derivative pricing models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates. OP Units are exchangeable for cash or, at our option, shares of our common stock equal to the REIT Shares Amount. As such, the fair value of OP Units outstanding as of December 31, 2010 is based on the closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2010, which was $36.38 per share.
 
The provisions of ASC Topic 825, , provide companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value and establish presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. We have not elected to apply the fair value option to any specific financial assets or liabilities.
Financial Instruments
 
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value because of the short maturities of these instruments. The fair value of mortgage and other loans receivable are based upon the estimates of management and on rates currently prevailing for comparable loans. The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on discounting future cash flows utilizing current rates offered to us for debt of a similar type and remaining maturity.
 
The table below details the fair values and book values for mortgage and other loans receivable and the components of long-term debt as of December 31, 2010. These fair value estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be realized upon disposition of these financial instruments.
 
During 2010, we acquired one mortgage loan (see Note 4) and assumed secured debt as part of certain acquisitions (see Note 10). The valuations were determined using Level 2 inputs of rates prevailing for comparable loans at the time of acquisition. During 2010, we recognized an impairment charge related to one asset held for sale, the fair value for which was determined using Level 2 and 3 inputs (see Note 7).
 
Impact of New Accounting Pronouncements
 
In June 2009, the FASB updated ASC 810 to require ongoing analyses to determine whether an entity's variable interest gives it a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity ("VIE"), making it the primary beneficiary, based on whether the entity (i) has the power to direct activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance, including whether it has an implicit financial responsibility to ensure the VIE operates as designed, and (ii) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Enhanced disclosures regarding an entity's involvement with VIEs are also required under the provisions of ASC 810. These requirements became effective January 1, 2010. The adoption of these requirements did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position.
 
In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2010-06, ("ASU 2010-06"). ASU 2010-06 adds new requirements for disclosures of significant transfers into and out of Levels 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, the reasons for the transfers and the policy for determining when transfers are recognized. ASU 2010-06 also adds new requirements for disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements on a gross rather than net basis relating to the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 recurring fair value measurements. It also clarifies the level of disaggregation to require disclosures by "class" rather than by "major category of assets and liabilities" and clarifies that a description of inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value is required for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements classified as Level 2 or 3. ASU 2010-06 became effective January 1, 2010 except for the requirements to provide the Level 3 activity of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements on a gross basis, which are effective January 1, 2011. The adoption of ASU 2010-06 has not and is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position.
Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements
 
In February 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-09, ("ASU 2010-09"). ASU 2010-09 amends ASC Topic 855, , to require SEC registrants and conduit bond obligors to evaluate subsequent events through the date that the financial statements are issued, however, SEC registrants are exempt from disclosing the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. All other entities are required to evaluate subsequent events through the date that the financial statements are available to be issued and must disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. ASU 2010-09 was effective upon issuance for all entities except conduit debt obligors. The adoption of ASU 2010-09 did not have an impact on our results of operations or financial position.
Amendments to Certain
Recognition and Disclosure Requirements
Subsequent Events
 
In July 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-20, ("ASU 2010-20"). ASU 2010-20 amends ASC Topic 310, , to require additional disclosures regarding credit quality and the allowance for credit losses related to financing receivables, including credit quality indicators and past due and modification information. Disclosures must be
Disclosures About the Credit Quality
of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses
Receivables
 
 
disaggregated by segment and class. The disclosures as of the end of a reporting period became effective December 31, 2010, and the disclosures about activity that occurs during a reporting period are effective January 1, 2011. The adoption of these requirements did not have an impact on our results of operations or financial position.
3.  Real Estate Properties
 
As of December 31, 2010, we had direct ownership of:
 
 
We lease our owned senior housing and long-term care facilities and certain medical office buildings to single tenants under "triple-net," and in most cases, "master" leases that are accounted for as operating leases. These leases generally have an initial term of up to 20 years and generally have two or more multiple-year renewal options. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 88% of these facilities were leased under master leases. In addition, the majority of these leases contain cross-collateralization and cross-default provisions tied to other leases with the same tenant, as well as grouped lease renewals and grouped purchase options. As of December 31, 2010, leases covering 417 triple-net leased facilities were backed by security deposits consisting of irrevocable letters of credit or cash totaling $78.8 million. Under terms of the leases, the tenant is responsible for all maintenance, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures on the leased properties. As of December 31, 2010, leases covering 386 facilities contained provisions for property tax impounds, and leases covering 274 facilities contained provisions for capital expenditure impounds. We generally lease medical office buildings to multiple tenants under separate non-triple-net leases, where we are responsible for many of the associated operating expenses (although many of these are, or can effectively be, passed through to the tenants). However, some of the medical office buildings are subject to triple-net leases, where the lessees are responsible for the associated operating expenses.
 
The following table lists our owned real estate properties, excluding assets held for sale, as of December 31, 2010:
 
Future minimum rentals on non-cancelable leases, including medical office building leases, as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:
 
 
In addition to the transactions with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC described below and in Note 5, during 2010, we acquired 21 skilled nursing facilities, 20 assisted and independent living facilities, seven medical office buildings and one continuing care retirement community subject to triple-net leases and 15 multi-tenant medical office buildings in 17 separate transactions for an aggregate investment of $437.2 million, including the assumption of $15.8 million of mortgage financing. The transactions included the acquisition of equity interests ranging from 91% to 96% in ten of the skilled nursing facilities, four of the assisted and independent living facilities and the continuing care retirement community. In connection with the acquisition of five of the assisted and independent living facilities and one of the skilled nursing facilities described above, we funded two unsecured loans totaling $5.5 million and funded an additional $0.4 million subsequent to acquisition during 2010.
 
During 2010, we acquired the remaining 55.05% interest in PMB SB 399-401 East Highland LLC ("PMB SB"), an entity affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC that owns two multi-tenant medical office buildings. PMB SB was valued at $17.4 million at the date of acquisition, and the acquisition was paid in a combination of cash and the assumption of $11.2 million of mortgage financing (of which $6.2 million was previously attributable to the controlling interest in PMB SB) (see Note 6).
 
During 2010, we also entered into an agreement to develop an assisted and independent living facility. The total budget for the project is $6.6 million. Costs of $1.2 million were incurred as of December 31, 2010 and are included in the caption "Development in progress" on our consolidated balance sheets.
 
During 2010, we funded $21.0 million in expansions, construction and capital improvements at certain facilities in our triple-net leases segment in accordance with existing lease provisions. Such expansions, construction and capital improvements generally result in an increase in the minimum rents earned by us on these facilities either at the time of funding or upon completion of the project. As of December 31, 2010, we had committed to fund additional expansions, construction and capital improvements of $14.5 million. During 2010, we also funded $2.0 million in capital and tenant improvements at certain multi-tenant medical office buildings.
 
During 2010, we sold nine skilled nursing facilities and three assisted and independent living facilities for net cash proceeds of $43.6 million that resulted in a total gain of $16.9 million which is included in the caption "Gain on sale of facilities, net" in "Discontinued operations" on our consolidated income statements.
 
During 2010, we sold the assisted living portion of a continuing care retirement community, for which we had an existing mortgage loan secured by the skilled nursing portion of such continuing care retirement community (see Note 4) to the tenant of the facility. We provided financing of $6.5 million related to the sale, including the concurrent repayment of a $0.7 million unsecured loan which had previously been included in the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets (see Note 4). As we have a continuing interest in the facility, operating results from the facility are included in income from continuing operations on our consolidated income statements.
During 2010, we transferred and assigned our controlling interest in one consolidated partnership which owned one assisted and independent living facility ("Partnership A") to our partner in exchange for our partner's noncontrolling interest in a second consolidated partnership which owned one assisted and independent living facility ("Partnership B"). We had previously provided a mortgage loan to Partnership A which was assigned to our partner as part of the exchange transaction (see Note 4). Upon exchange of the ownership interests, the remaining $1.7 million of noncontrolling interests in the partnerships was eliminated.
 
During 2010, we transferred one skilled nursing facility and one medical office building to assets held for sale (see Note 7).
 
On August 21, 2009, we acquired the remaining outside interests in the two consolidated joint ventures we had with Broe for $4.3 million (see Note 5). As a result of this acquisition, we now have direct ownership of the 36 multi-tenant medical office buildings located in nine states previously owned by the joint ventures.
 
During 2009, we funded $34.4 million in expansions, construction and capital improvements at certain facilities in our triple-net leases segment in accordance with existing lease provisions. Such expansions, construction and capital improvements generally result in an increase in the minimum rents earned by us on these facilities either at the time of funding or upon completion of the project.
 
During 2009, we sold five skilled nursing facilities for a gross purchase price of $23.3 million that resulted in a total gain of $9.5 million which is included in the caption "Gain on sale of facilities, net" in "Discontinued operations" on our consolidated income statements.
 
We recognized an impairment charge of $15.0 million related to one asset held for sale during 2010 (see Note 7). No impairments were recognized during 2009 or 2008.
 
4.  Mortgage Loans Receivable
 
As of December 31, 2010, we held 20 mortgage loans receivable secured by:
 
 
As of December 31, 2010, the mortgage loans receivable had an aggregate principal balance of $310.2 million and are reflected in our consolidated balance sheets net of aggregate deferred gains and discounts totaling $21.0 million, with individual outstanding balances ranging from $0.7 million to $83.1 million and maturities ranging from 2010 to 2031. We had a $6.6 million mortgage loan which matured during 2010 and is expected to be repaid during the first quarter of 2011. The borrower was current on all interest payments as of December 31, 2010, and the loan is included in the 2011 maturities in the table below. The principal balances of mortgage loans receivable as of December 31, 2010 mature as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The following table lists our mortgage loans receivable as of December 31, 2010:
 
 
 
(1)
                        
Certain mortgage loans receivable require monthly principal and interest payments at level amounts over life to maturity and others require monthly interest only payments until maturity. Some mortgage loans receivable have interest rates which periodically adjust, but cannot decrease, which results in varying principal and interest payments over the life of the loan, in which case the balloon payments reflected are an estimate. Most mortgage loans receivable require a prepayment penalty based on a percentage of principal outstanding or a penalty based upon a calculation maintaining the yield we would have earned if prepayment had not occurred.
 
During 2010, we funded four mortgage loans secured by 27 medical office buildings, one assisted and independent living facility and four skilled nursing facilities in the amount of $155.3 million. In connection with the funding of a mortgage loan secured by one of the skilled nursing facilities, we agreed to fund up to $10.9 million to expand the facility and funded $1.9 million as of December 31, 2010. During 2010, we also acquired one mortgage loan secured by one assisted and independent living facility with an effective interest rate of 8.27% for $6.1 million, net of a $0.8 million discount, and secured a $2.0 million unsecured loan which had previously been included in the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets with two skilled nursing facilities.
 
During 2010, we also funded $6.8 million and $52.8 million under loans to our consolidated joint ventures with PMB Gilbert LLC and PMB Pasadena LLC, respectively (see Note 5). As we consolidate these joint ventures, these balances have been eliminated for purposes of our consolidated financial statements.
 
During 2010, we sold the assisted living portion of a continuing care retirement community, for which we had an existing mortgage loan secured by the skilled nursing portion of such continuing care retirement community to the tenant of the facility. For facility count purposes, this was previously accounted for in real estate properties as a continuing care retirement community (see Note 3). We provided financing of $6.5 million related to the sale, including the concurrent repayment of a $0.7 million unsecured loan which had previously been included in the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets, and funded an additional $0.4 million subsequent to the sale.
 
During 2010, we transferred and assigned our controlling interest in Partnership A to our partner in exchange for our partner's noncontrolling interest in Partnership B (see Note 3). We had previously provided a mortgage loan in the amount of $5.2 million to Partnership A which was assigned to our partner as part of the exchange transaction. Fair value at the exchange transaction date was determined based on estimates considering factors and assumptions including historical operating results, available market information and known trends and market/economic conditions. The exchange transaction resulted in a $1.0 million gain which was deferred.
 
During 2010, we also funded $2.5 million on existing loans.
 
As of February 1, 2010, we acquired the multi-tenant medical office building which served as collateral for our $47.5 million mortgage loan from a related party, and as a result, the loan was retired (see Notes 5 and 22).
 
In 2009, we entered into an agreement with one of our triple-net tenants, Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. ("Brookdale"), under which we became a lender with an initial commitment of $8.8 million under their $230.0 million revolving loan facility. During 2009, we funded $7.5 million which was subsequently repaid. As of December 31, 2009, there was no balance outstanding. The revolving loan facility was terminated as of February 23, 2010. There was no balance outstanding at the date of termination.
 
During 2009, we also funded an additional $2.5 million on existing mortgage loans.
 
During 2009, one mortgage loan totaling $3.7 million (including $0.7 million funded during 2009) was prepaid.
 
The following table summarizes the changes in mortgage loans receivable, net during 2010 and 2009:
 
 
As of December 31, 2010 we had one mortgage loan to Brookdale secured by five assisted and independent living facilities with a carrying value of $28.3 million (net of a deferred gain of $4.7 million). The loan had a stated maturity date of June 2011 and was prepaid during January 2011 (see Notes 14 and 24).
 
5.  Medical Office Building Joint Ventures
 
NHP/PMB L.P.
 
In February 2008, we entered into an agreement (the "Contribution Agreement") with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC and certain of its affiliates to acquire up to 18 multi-tenant medical office buildings, including six that were in development, for $747.6 million, including the assumption of approximately $282.6 million of mortgage financing. Under the Contribution Agreement, in 2008, NHP/PMB acquired interests in nine of the 18 medical office buildings, one of which consisted of a 50% interest through a joint venture which is consolidated by NHP/PMB. During 2008, we also acquired one of the 18 medical office buildings directly (not through NHP/PMB). During 2009, we elected to terminate the Contribution Agreement with respect to six properties after the conditions for us to close on such properties were not satisfied. As a result of the elimination of these six properties, under the Contribution Agreement, NHP/PMB became obligated to pay $3.0 million (the "2009 Premium Adjustment"), of which $2.7 million was payable to Pacific Medical Buildings LLC. The portion of the 2009 Premium Adjustment not payable to Pacific Medical Buildings LLC was paid in the form of $0.2 million in cash and the issuance of 2,551 additional OP Units with an aggregate cost basis of $0.1 million. As a result of the cash and stock paid with respect to the Current Premium Adjustment, we received an additional 6,481 Class B limited partnership units in NHP/PMB.
 
As of February 1, 2010, we entered into an amendment to the Contribution Agreement which reinstated one of the six properties that were previously eliminated from the Contribution Agreement. NHP/PMB acquired this multi-tenant medical office building for $74.0 million, which was paid in a combination of cash and the issuance of 301,599 OP Units with a fair value at the date of issuance of $10.0 million. As a result of such acquisition, we retired our $47.5 million mortgage loan from a related party to which such acquired medical office building had served as collateral (see Note 22). Additionally, as of February 1, 2010, we acquired a majority ownership interest in a joint venture which owns one multi-tenant medical office building (see below), amended and restated our agreement with NHP/PMB, PMB LLC and PMB Real Estate Services LLC ("PMBRES") as described below and amended our agreement with PMB Pomona LLC to provide for the future
NHP/PMB Gilbert LLC
 
 
acquisition by NHP/PMB of a medical office building currently in development (see Note 22). In connection with these transactions, NHP/PMB entered into a Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of NHP/PMB, which, among other things, authorized NHP/PMB to acquire properties affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC pursuant to agreements other than the Contribution Agreement.
 
As of March 1, 2010, we entered into an amendment to the Contribution Agreement which reinstated another two of the six properties that were previously eliminated from the Contribution Agreement. NHP/PMB acquired a 65% interest in a joint venture which is consolidated by NHP/PMB that owns one of the two multi-tenant medical office buildings valued at $79.9 million. The acquisition was paid in a combination of cash, the assumption of $48.1 million of mortgage financing and the issuance of 152,238 OP Units with a fair value at the date of issuance of $5.0 million. NHP/PMB acquired a 69% interest in a joint venture which is consolidated by NHP/PMB that owns the second multi-tenant medical office building valued at $69.3 million. The acquisition was paid in a combination of cash, the assumption of $50.2 million of mortgage financing and the issuance of 121,489 OP Units with a fair value at the date of issuance of $4.0 million. Additionally, as of March 1, 2010, we acquired the remaining interest in PMB SB (see Note 6).
 
The amendment to the Contribution Agreement dated as of March 1, 2010 also eliminated one of the two remaining properties from the Contribution Agreement, however, we concurrently entered into a joint venture with PMB Pasadena LLC (an entity affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC) to acquire this property (see below). As a result of the elimination of this property from the Contribution Agreement, NHP/PMB became obligated to pay $2.1 million (the "2010 Premium Adjustment"), of which $1.9 million was payable to Pacific Medical Buildings LLC in cash. The portion of the 2010 Premium Adjustment not payable to Pacific Medical Buildings LLC was paid in the form of $0.1 million in cash and the issuance of 1,788 additional OP Units with an aggregate value of $57,000. As a result of the payment, we received an additional 4,514 Class B limited partnership units in NHP/PMB. Under the Contribution Agreement, if the agreement is terminated with respect to the remaining development property, NHP/PMB will become obligated to pay approximately $2.4 million (the "Future Premium Adjustment") which has been accrued as of December 31, 2010 and of which a portion would be payable to Pacific Medical Buildings LLC.
NHP/PMB Pasadena LLC
 
Under the terms of the Contribution Agreement, a portion of the consideration for the multi-tenant medical office buildings is paid in the form of OP Units. After a one-year holding period, the OP Units are exchangeable for cash or, at our option, shares of our common stock equal to the REIT Shares Amount. During 2010, 30,166 OP Units were converted into 30,166 shares of our common stock. During 2009, 202,361 OP Units were converted into 202,361 shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, 1,599,586 of the remaining OP Units had been outstanding for one year or longer and were exchangeable for cash of $58.2 million. During 2010 and 2009, cash distributions from NHP/PMB of $3.6 million and $3.1 million, respectively, were made to OP unitholders.
 
Additionally, we have entered into an agreement (the "Pipeline Agreement") with NHP/PMB, PMB LLC and PMBRES (see Note 6) pursuant to which we or NHP/PMB currently have the right, but not the obligation, to acquire up to approximately $1.3 billion of multi-tenant medical office buildings developed by PMB LLC through April 2019. As of February 1, 2010, the Pipeline Agreement was amended and restated to provide NHP/PMB with the option to acquire medical office buildings developed in the future through a joint venture between NHP and PMB LLC, obligate us to provide or arrange financing for approved developments and provide us with improved terms, including preferred returns, a reduction in PMB LLC's promote interest and acquisition pricing determined at the time of acquisition rather than at the pre-development stage. As of September 23, 2010, we entered into a joint venture with PMB Mission Hills 1 LLC (an entity affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC) to develop a medical office building with a total budget of $53.0 million (see below) in accordance with the terms of the Pipeline Agreement. We concurrently entered into an agreement with NHP/PMB, PMB LLC and PMB Mission Hills 1 LLC under which the interests in the joint venture will be contributed to NHP/PMB subsequent to completion of development in accordance with the terms of the Pipeline Agreement.
PDP Mission Hills 1 LLC
 
During 2010 and 2009, NHP/PMB funded $0.7 million and $0.2 million, respectively, in capital and tenant improvements at certain facilities.
 
All intercompany balances with NHP/PMB have been eliminated for purposes of our consolidated financial statements.
 
NHP/PMB Gilbert LLC
 
As of February 1, 2010, we entered into a joint venture with PMB Gilbert LLC (an entity affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC) called NHP/PMB Gilbert LLC ("Gilbert JV") to acquire a multi-tenant medical office building. PMB Gilbert LLC contributed the multi-tenant medical office building to Gilbert JV, and we contributed $6.3 million in cash. Additionally, we agreed to loan Gilbert JV up to $8.8 million as project financing at an interest rate of 7.00%, including $6.8 million that was disbursed initially and remains outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We hold a 71.17% equity interest in the joint venture and PMB Gilbert LLC holds a 28.83% equity interest. PMB Gilbert LLC is the managing member of Gilbert JV, but we consolidate the joint venture in our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the joint venture are consistent with our accounting policies. Pursuant to a contribution agreement dated as of February 1, 2010, among us, NHP/PMB, Pacific Medical Buildings LLC and PMB Gilbert LLC, NHP/PMB may in the future acquire Gilbert JV if certain conditions are met.
 
Net income or loss is allocated between the partners in the joint venture based on the hypothetical liquidation at book value method (the "HLBV method"). Under the HLBV method, net income or loss is allocated between the partners based on the difference between each partner's claim on the net assets of the partnership at the end and beginning of the period, after taking into account contributions and distributions. Each partner's share of the net assets of the partnership is calculated as the amount that the partner would receive if the partnership were to liquidate all of its assets at net book value and distribute the resulting cash to creditors and partners in accordance with their respective priorities. Under this method, in any given period, we could be recording more or less income than the joint venture has generated or more or less income than actual cash distributions received and more or less than what we may receive in the event of an actual liquidation. During 2010, operating cash distributions from Gilbert JV of $0.2 million and $4,000 were made to us and to PMB Gilbert LLC, respectively.
 
During 2010, Gilbert JV funded $0.1 million in capital and tenant improvements at certain facilities.
 
All intercompany balances with Gilbert JV have been eliminated for purposes of our consolidated financial statements.
 
NHP/PMB Pasadena LLC
 
As of March 1, 2010, we entered into a joint venture with PMB Pasadena LLC (an entity affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC) called NHP/PMB Pasadena LLC ("Pasadena JV") to acquire a multi-tenant medical office building. PMB Pasadena LLC contributed the multi-tenant medical office building to Pasadena JV, and we contributed $13.5 million in cash. Additionally, we provided Pasadena JV with a $56.5 million mortgage loan at an initial interest rate equal to the greater of 3.50% or LIBOR plus 165 basis points (increasing to the greater of 5.125% or LIBOR plus 375 basis points as of April 1, 2010), of which $49.8 million has been funded, and a $3.0 million mezzanine loan at an interest rate of 15.00%, both of which remain outstanding as of December 31, 2010. We hold a 71% equity interest in the joint venture and PMB Pasadena LLC holds a 29% equity interest. PMB Pasadena LLC is the managing member of Pasadena JV, but we consolidate the joint venture in our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the joint venture are consistent with our accounting policies. Pursuant to a contribution agreement dated as of March 1, 2010, among us, NHP/PMB, Pacific Medical
 
 
Buildings LLC and PMB Pasadena LLC, NHP/PMB may in the future acquire Pasadena JV if certain conditions are met.
 
Net income or loss is allocated between the partners in the joint venture based on the HLBV method. During 2010, operating cash distributions from Pasadena JV of $0.1 million were made to us.
 
During 2010, Pasadena JV funded $0.3 million in capital and tenant improvements at certain facilities.
 
All intercompany balances with Pasadena JV have been eliminated for purposes of our consolidated financial statements.
 
PDP Mission Hills 1 LLC
 
As of September 23, 2010, we entered into a joint venture with PMB Mission Hills 1 LLC (an entity affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC) called PDP Mission Hills 1 LLC ("Mission Hills JV") to develop a medical office building. We contributed $14.7 million in cash, and PMB Mission Hills 1 LLC contributed $1.8 million in cash, and the joint venture acquired the land on which the medical office building is to be developed for $15.5 million. The total budget for the project is $53.0 million, and construction is expected to commence in early 2011. We hold an 89.1% equity interest in the joint venture and PMB Mission Hills 1 LLC holds a 10.9% equity interest. PMB Mission Hills 1 LLC is the managing member of Mission Hills JV, but we consolidate the joint venture in our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the joint venture are consistent with our accounting policies. Pursuant to a contribution agreement dated as of September 23, 2010, among us, NHP/PMB, PMB LLC and PMB Mission Hills 1 LLC, the interests in the joint venture will be contributed to NHP/PMB subsequent to completion of development in accordance with the terms of the Pipeline Agreement.
 
During 2010, Mission Hills JV incurred costs of $16.6 million (including the land acquisition) which is included in the caption "Development in progress" on our consolidated balance sheets.
 
Net income or loss is allocated between the partners in the joint venture based on the HLBV method. No cash distributions were made during 2010.
 
All intercompany balances with Mission Hills JV have been eliminated for purposes of our consolidated financial statements.
 
McShane/NHP JV, LLC
 
In December 2007, we entered into a joint venture with McShane called McShane/NHP JV, LLC ("McShane/NHP") to invest in multi-tenant medical office buildings. We hold a 95% equity interest in the joint venture and McShane holds a 5% equity interest. McShane is the managing member of McShane/NHP, but we consolidate the joint venture in our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies of the joint venture are consistent with our accounting policies.
 
As of December 31, 2010, McShane/NHP owned seven multi-tenant medical office buildings located in one state.
 
Cash distributions from McShane/NHP are made in accordance with the members' ownership interests and will continue to be made until specified returns are achieved. As the specified returns are achieved, McShane will receive an increasing percentage of the cash distributions from the joint venture. During 2010, operating cash distributions from McShane/NHP of $1.1 million and $0.1 million were made to us and to McShane, respectively.
 
During 2009, operating cash distributions from McShane/NHP of $0.9 million and $0.1 million were made to us and to McShane, respectively.
 
During 2010 and 2009, McShane/NHP funded $1.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively, in capital and tenant improvements at certain facilities.
 
All intercompany balances with McShane/NHP have been eliminated for purposes of our consolidated financial statements.
 
NHP/Broe, LLC and NHP/Broe II, LLC
 
On August 21, 2009, we acquired for $4.3 million the 10% and 5% noncontrolling interests held by The Broe Companies in NHP/Broe, LLC ("Broe I") and NHP/Broe II, LLC ("Broe II"), respectively. As a result of this acquisition, we now have direct ownership of the 36 multi-tenant medical office buildings located in nine states previously owned by Broe I and Broe II. Activity subsequent to August 21, 2009 related to these facilities is included in our consolidated activity for wholly owned real estate properties (see Note 3). Prior to our acquisition of Broe's interests, we consolidated both joint ventures in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with ASC 810.
 
During the period from January 1, 2009 through August 21, 2009, Broe I and Broe II funded $1.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, in capital and tenant improvements at certain facilities.
 
During the period from January 1, 2009 through August 21, 2009, Broe I exercised the first of two available 12-month extension options on a $32.9 million loan that was scheduled to mature in April 2009 and refinanced one additional $6.4 million loan that was scheduled to mature in February 2009, extending its maturity to February 2012. Both loans were prepaid during 2010.
 
During the period from January 1, 2009 through August 21, 2009, an additional $6.6 million was funded on an existing loan secured by a portion of the Broe II portfolio, resulting in distributions of $6.3 million and $0.3 million to us and to Broe, respectively.
 
During the period from January 1, 2009 through August 21, 2009, operating cash distributions from Broe I of $0.9 million and $0.1 million were made to us and to Broe, respectively, and operating cash distributions from Broe II of $1.7 million and $0.1 million were made to us and to Broe, respectively.
 
6.  Investment in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures
 
The following table sets forth the amounts from our unconsolidated joint ventures included in the caption "Income from unconsolidated joint ventures" on our consolidated income statements for the periods presented:
 
State Pension FundInvestor
 
In January 2007, we entered into a joint venture with a state pension fund investor. The purpose of the joint venture is to acquire and develop assisted living, independent living and skilled nursing facilities. We manage and own 25% of the joint venture, which will fund its investments with approximately 40% equity contributions and 60% debt. The original approved investment target was $475.0 million, but we exceeded that amount in 2007, and the total potential investment amount has been increased to $975.0 million. The financial statements of the joint venture are not consolidated in our financial statements as our joint venture partner has substantive participating rights, and accordingly our investment is accounted for using the equity method.
 
As of December 31, 2010, the joint venture owned 19 assisted and independent living facilities, 14 skilled nursing facilities and one continuing care retirement community located in nine states.
 
During 2010, the joint venture prepaid two loans totaling $4.3 million with a weighted average rate of 9.16%, and placed $12.0 million of mortgage financing on a portion of its portfolio resulting in net cash distributions of $5.5 million and $1.8 million to our joint venture partner and to us, respectively.
 
During 2009, the joint venture retired three loans totaling $8.8 million with a weighted average rate of 6.37%, secured by six facilities, for $7.5 million, resulting in a net gain of $1.3 million which is reflected as gain on debt extinguishment, net on the joint venture's income statements. In connection with the debt retirement, we made contributions of $1.9 million to the joint venture.
 
During 2008, the joint venture entered into an interest rate swap contract that is designated as effectively hedging the variability of expected cash flows related to variable rate debt placed on a portion of its portfolio. The cash flow hedge has a fixed rate of 4.235%, a notional amount of $126.1 million and expires on January 1, 2015. The fair value of this contract as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $12.8 million and $8.2 million, respectively, which is included as a liability on the joint venture's balance sheets.
 
During 2010 and 2009, we made additional contributions of $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, to the joint venture. Cash distributions from the joint venture are made in accordance with the members' ownership interests until specified returns are achieved. As the specified returns are achieved, we will receive an increasing percentage of the cash distributions from the joint venture. During 2010 and 2009, we received additional distributions of $3.5 million and $2.3 million, respectively, from the joint venture. In addition to our share of the income, we receive a monthly management fee calculated as a percentage of the equity investment in the joint venture. This fee is included in our income from unconsolidated joint ventures and in the general and administrative expenses on the joint venture's income statement.
 
The unaudited condensed balance sheet and income statement for the joint venture below present its financial position as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and its results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
PMB Real Estate Services LLC
 
In February 2008, we entered into an agreement with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC to acquire a 50% interest in PMBRES, a full service property management company. The transaction closed on April 1, 2008. In consideration for the 50% interest, we paid $1.0 million at closing, and we will make an additional payment on or before March 31, 2011 equal to six times the normalized net operating profit of PMBRES for 2010 (less the amount of all prior payments). An additional payment equal to six times the Normalized Net Operating Profit, as defined, of PMBRES for 2009 was to be made on or before March 31, 2010. During 2009, PMBRES had a net operating loss, and as such, no additional payment was made on or before March 31, 2010. PMBRES provides property management services for 33 multi-tenant medical office buildings that we own or in which we have an ownership interest.
 
PMB SB 399-401 East Highland LLC
 
In August 2008, we acquired from PMB SB (an entity affiliated with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC) a 44.95% interest in an entity that owned two multi-tenant medical office buildings for $3.5 million. As of March 1, 2010, we acquired the remaining 55.05% interest in PMB SB. PMB SB was valued at $17.4 million at the date of acquisition, and the acquisition was paid in a combination of cash and the assumption of $11.2 million of mortgage financing (of which $6.2 million was previously attributable to the controlling interest in PMB SB). Prior to the acquisition, our investment in PMB SB was $3.0 million which was accounted for under the equity method. In connection with the acquisition, we re-measured our previously held equity interest at the acquisition date fair
 
value based on an independent consultant's report and recognized a net gain on the re-measurement of $0.6 million which is included in the caption "Interest and other income" on our consolidated income statements. Subsequent activity related to these facilities is included in our consolidated activity for wholly owned real estate properties (see Note 3). During the period from January 1, 2010 to February 28, 2010, we received distributions of $0.1 million from PMB SB.
 
7.  Assets Held for Sale
 
During 2010, we transferred one skilled nursing facility and one medical office building to assets held for sale. The skilled nursing facility was sold in January 2011 for net cash proceeds of $0.8 million (see Note 24). The tenant of the medical office building has filed bankruptcy, and an impairment charge of $15.0 million was recognized in discontinued operations based on broker estimates of fair value, comparable sales in the local submarket and an unsolicited cash offer received during 2010. We intend to sell the medical office building within one year.
 
 
8.  Intangible Assets and Liabilities
 
Intangible assets include items such as lease-up intangible assets, above market tenant and ground lease intangible assets and in-place lease intangible assets. Intangible liabilities include below market tenant and ground lease intangible liabilities and are included in the caption "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, intangible assets and liabilities consisted of:
 
 
The amortization of above/below market lease intangibles is included in the caption "Medical office building operating rent" on our consolidated income statements. The amortization of other intangible assets and liabilities is included in the caption "Depreciation and amortization" on our consolidated income statements. The following table sets forth amounts included on our consolidated income statements related to the amortization of intangible assets and liabilities for the periods presented:
 
 
As of December 31, 2010, the future estimated aggregate amortization related to intangible assets and liabilities is as follows:
 
 
9.  Other Assets
 
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, other assets consisted of:
 
 
Included in other receivables at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, are two unsecured loans to Emeritus Corporation in the amount of $21.4 million and $30.0 million. The loans mature in March 2017.
 
10.  Debt
 
Unsecured Senior Credit Facility
 
As of December 31, 2010, we had $175.0 million outstanding on our $700.0 million revolving unsecured senior credit facility. There was no balance outstanding as of December 31, 2009. At our option, borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at the prime rate (3.25% at December 31, 2010) or applicable LIBOR plus 0.70% (1.01% at December 31, 2010). On March 12, 2009, our credit rating from Fitch Ratings was upgraded to BBB from BBB-, and on April 1, 2009, our credit rating from Moody's was upgraded to Baa2 from Baa3. As a result, the spread over LIBOR decreased from 0.85% to 0.70%. We pay a facility fee of 0.15% per annum on the total commitment under the agreement. Effective June 25, 2010, we exercised our option to extend the maturity date by one year to December 15, 2011.
 
Our credit facility requires us to maintain, among other things, the financial covenants detailed below. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with these covenants:
 
 
Our credit facility allows us to exceed the 60% requirements, up to a maximum of 65%, on the maximum total indebtedness to capitalization value and maximum unencumbered asset value ratio for up to two consecutive fiscal quarters.
 
 
Senior Notes
 
The aggregate principal amount of notes outstanding at each of December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $991.6 million, and the weighted average interest rate on the notes was 6.47%. The weighted average maturity was 4.0 years and 5.0 years as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
During 2009, we repaid at maturity $32.0 million of senior notes with a weighted average interest rate of 7.76%, and $2.6 million of senior notes with an interest rate of 6.90% and final maturity in 2037 were put to us for payment.
 
During 2009, we retired $30.0 million of senior notes with an interest rate of 6.25% due in February 2013 for $25.4 million, resulting in a net gain of $4.6 million which is reflected on our consolidated income statements as gain on debt extinguishment.
 
Notes and Bonds Payable
 
The aggregate principal amount of notes and bonds payable at December 31, 2010 was $362.6 million. Notes and bonds payable are due through the year 2037, at interest rates ranging from 1.00% to 8.63% and are secured by real estate properties with an aggregate net book value as of December 31, 2010 of $512.9 million. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average interest rate on the notes and bonds payable was 5.59% and the weighted average maturity was 7.2 years. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of notes and bonds payable was $431.5 million, and the notes and bonds payable had a weighted average interest rate of 5.34% and a weighted average maturity of 6.9 years.
 
During 2010, we assumed mortgages as part of certain acquisitions totaling $125.3 million.
 
During 2010, we repaid at maturity $67.2 million of secured debt with a weighted average interest rate of 5.24% and prepaid $118.3 million of secured debt with a weighted average interest rate of 4.73%.
 
During 2010, we exercised a 12-month extension option on a $32.4 million loan that was scheduled to mature in April 2010 and subsequently prepaid the loan.
 
During 2009, prior to our acquisition of Broe's interests in two consolidated joint ventures we had with them (see Note 5), an additional $6.9 million was funded on existing loans secured by a portion of the Broe I and Broe II portfolios. Additionally, Broe I exercised the first of two available 12-month extension options on a $32.9 million loan that was scheduled to mature in April 2009 and refinanced one additional $6.4 million loan that was scheduled to mature in February 2009, extending its maturity to February 2012. Both loans were prepaid during 2010.
 
During 2009, we prepaid $2.7 million of fixed rate secured debt with an interest rate of 8.75%.
 
Debt Maturities
 
The principal balances of our debt as of December 31, 2010 mature as follows:
 
 
(1)
                    
There are $52.4 million of senior notes due in 2037 which may be put back to us at their face amount at the option of the holder on October 1 of any of the following years: 2012, 2017 or 2027. There are $23.0 million of senior notes due in 2038 which may be put back to us at their face amount at the option of the holder on July 7 of any of the following years: 2013, 2018, 2023 or 2028.
 
11.  Stockholders' Equity
 
Preferred Stock
 
During 2004, we issued 7.75% Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred Stock") with a liquidation preference of $100 per share. The Series B Preferred Stock was convertible upon the occurrence of certain events.
 
During 2009, the Series B Preferred Stock was convertible from October 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009, and during that time, approximately 235,000 shares were converted into approximately 1,061,000 shares of common stock at a weighted average conversion price of $22.20 per share (equivalent to 4.5054 shares of common stock per share of Series B Preferred Stock).
 
There were 513,644 shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, if all of the Series B Preferred Stock were to have converted, it would have resulted in the issuance of approximately 2,319,000 common shares.
 
On January 18, 2010, we redeemed all outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $103.875 per share plus an amount equal to accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon to the redemption date ($0.3875), for a total redemption price of $104.2625 per share, payable only in cash. As a result of the redemption, each share of Series B Preferred Stock was convertible until January 14, 2010 into 4.5150 shares of common stock. During that time, 512,727 shares were converted into approximately 2,315,000 shares of common stock. On January 18, 2010, we redeemed 917 shares that remained outstanding.
 
Common Stock
 
We enter into sales agreements from time to time with agents to sell shares of our common stock through an at-the-market equity offering program. On January 15, 2010, we entered into two sales agreements to sell up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time. When that program was completed, we entered into two additional sales agreements on July 2, 2010 to sell up to an aggregate of an additional 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time. During 2010, we issued and sold approximately 9,141,000 shares of common stock at a weighted average price of $37.04 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $335.1 million after sales agent fees. During 2009, we issued and sold approximately 9,537,000 shares of common stock at a weighted average price of $30.34 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $286.3 million after sales agent fees.
 
We sponsor a dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan that enables existing stockholders to purchase additional shares of common stock by automatically reinvesting all or part of the cash dividends paid on their shares of common stock. Prior to November 27, 2009, the plan also allowed investors to acquire shares of our common stock for cash, subject to certain limitations, including a maximum monthly investment of $10,000, at a discount ranging from 0% to 5%, determined by us from time to time in accordance with the plan. The discount during 2010 and 2009 was 2%. During 2010, we issued approximately 150,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $33.26 per share, resulting in proceeds of approximately $5.0 million. During 2009, we issued approximately 1,083,000 shares of common stock, at an average price of $28.27 per share, resulting in proceeds of approximately $30.6 million.
 
On January 18, 2010, we redeemed all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, and as a result, 512,727 shares of Series B Preferred Stock were converted into approximately 2,315,000 shares of common stock during the period from January 1, 2010 to January 14, 2010. During 2009, approximately 235,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock were converted into approximately 1,061,000 shares of common stock.
 
During 2010, 30,166 OP Units issued by NHP/PMB were exchanged for 30,166 shares of common stock, and during 2009, 202,361 OP Units issued by NHP/PMB were exchanged for 202,361 shares of common stock (see Note 5).
 
12.  Stock Incentive Plan
 
Under the terms of a stock incentive plan (the "Plan"), we reserved for issuance 6,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 4.1 million shares of common stock remained available for issuance under the Plan. Under the Plan, as amended, we may issue stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, stock appreciation rights and dividend equivalents.
 
Summaries of the status of stock options granted to officers, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted to directors and restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and stock appreciation rights granted to employees as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and changes during the years then ended are as follow:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stock options granted under the Plan become exercisable each year following the date of grant in annual increments of one-third, are exercisable at the market price of our common stock on the date of grant and have a 10 year life. The fair value per share of the options granted during 2010 and 2009 was estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation model using the assumptions in the table below. The risk free rate of return was based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The expected volatility was based on historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life. The following table summarizes the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of options granted during 2010 and 2009:
 
 
We received $4.0 million, $1.3 million and $3.2 million for stock option exercises in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2010:
 
 
The director restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards are made to non-employee directors and granted at no cost. The awards historically vested at the third anniversary of the award date or upon the date they vacate their position. However, beginning in 2006, they vest in increments of one third per year for three years and will not fully vest if they vacate their position.
 
In 2006 and 2007, certain employees received annual awards of restricted stock or restricted stock units with dividend equivalents that are reinvested. These grants generally vest in increments of one third per year for three years are accompanied by awards of dividend equivalents credited in the form of stock units.
 
Starting in 2007, performance shares and stock appreciation rights were granted as long-term incentive compensation awards for the officers and certain employees in place of restricted stock or restricted stock units. A percentage (ranging from 50% to 200%) of the number of performance shares granted is eligible to become earned and vested based on our total stockholder return ("TSR") over a three year period, starting from the beginning of the year of grant, relative to the TSR of the companies comprising the NAREIT Index as of the end of the year
prior to the year of grant, except that the percentage is capped at 100% if TSR is negative. The stock appreciation right grants vest in increments of one third per year for three years and earn dividend equivalents credited in the form of stock units.
 
In addition, on August 15, 2006, the President and Chief Executive Officer received a grant of approximately 120,968 restricted stock units. This grant vests with respect to 50% of the units on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant and with respect to 10% of the units each year thereafter. On April 23, 2007, the Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer received a grant of approximately 30,807 restricted stock units. This grant vests with respect to 50% of the units on January 23, 2014, with the remaining 50% of the units vesting in seven substantially equal annual installments on each subsequent anniversary of such date. On April 23, 2007, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Portfolio Officer received a grant of approximately 30,807 restricted stock units. This grant vests with respect to 50% of the units on July 23, 2012, with respect to an additional 20% of the units on each of January 23, 2013 and January 23, 2014 and with respect to the final 10% of the units on January 23, 2015. The restricted stock units earn dividend equivalents which are reinvested.
 
Compensation expense related to awards of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and stock appreciation rights are measured at fair value on the date of grant and amortized over the relevant service period. The fair value of restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance share awards is based on the market price of our common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock appreciation right awards was estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. Compensation expense related to director restricted stock awards was $0.7 million in 2010, $0.7 million in 2009 and $0.6 million in 2008. Compensation expense related to employee stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and stock appreciation rights awards was $6.2 million in 2010, $6.3 million in 2009 and $5.2 million in 2008. We expect to expense $11.4 million related to director and employee stock options, restricted stock, and employee restricted stock units, performance shares and stock appreciation rights over the remainder of the respective one to ten year service periods.
 
Awards of dividend equivalents accompany the stock option grants beginning in 1996 on a one-for-one basis. For stock options granted prior to 2009, such dividend equivalents are payable in cash from the time the options are fully vested until such time as the corresponding stock option is exercised, based upon a formula approved by the Compensation Committee of the board of directors. For stock options granted in 2009 and 2010, such dividend equivalents are payable in cash during the first three years after the date of grant, regardless of whether the stock options have been exercised, but dividend payments cease upon termination of employment. In addition, dividend equivalents are paid on restricted stock and restricted stock units prior to vesting. ASC 718 provides that payments related to the dividend equivalents are treated as dividends. If an employee were to leave before all restricted stock or restricted stock units had vested, any dividend equivalents previously paid on the unvested shares or units would be expensed.
 
 
13.  Earnings Per Share (EPS)
 
Certain of our share-based payment awards are considered participating securities which requires the use of the two-class method for the computation of basic and diluted EPS.
 
Diluted EPS also includes the effect of any potential shares outstanding, which for us is comprised of dilutive stock options, other share-settled compensation plans and, if the effect is dilutive, Series B Preferred Stock, which was redeemed on January 18, 2010 (see Note 11) and/or OP Units. There were 270,100 stock options that would not be dilutive for 2010. The calculation below excludes 7,000 and 297,000 stock appreciation rights that would not be dilutive for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Series B Preferred Stock is not dilutive for any period presented. The following table sets forth the components of the basic and diluted EPS calculations:
 
14.  Transactions with Significant Lessees
 
As of December 31, 2010, 93 triple-net leased facilities are leased to and operated by subsidiaries of Brookdale. Revenues from Brookdale were $54.3 million, $55.0 million and $54.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, Brookdale accounted for 12.2% of our revenues.
 
As of December 31, 2010 we had one mortgage loan to Brookdale secured by five assisted and independent living facilities with a carrying value of $28.3 million (net of a deferred gain of $4.7 million). The loan had a stated maturity date of June 2011 and was prepaid during January 2011 (see Notes 4 and 24).
 
In 2009, we entered into an agreement with Brookdale under which we became a lender with an initial commitment of $8.8 million under their $230.0 million revolving loan facility (see Note 4). During 2009, we funded $7.5 million which was subsequently repaid. As of December 31, 2009, there was no balance outstanding. The revolving loan facility was terminated as of February 23, 2010. There was no balance outstanding at the date of termination.
 
15.  Discontinued Operations
 
ASC 360 requires the operating results of any assets with their own identifiable cash flows that are disposed of or held for sale and in which we have no continuing interest be removed from income from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations. The operating results for any such assets for any prior periods presented must also be reclassified as discontinued operations. If we have a continuing involvement, as in the sales to our unconsolidated joint venture, the operating results remain in continuing operations. The following table details the operating results reclassified to discontinued operations for the periods presented:
 
 
16.  Derivatives
 
During August 2010, we entered into six 12-month forward-starting interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate notional amount of $250.0 million at a weighted average rate of 3.16%. We entered into these swap agreements in order to hedge the expected interest payments associated with fixed rate debt forecasted to be issued in 2011. The swap agreements each have an effective date of August 1, 2011 and a termination date of August 1, 2021. We expect to settle the swap agreements when the forecasted debt is issued. We assessed the effectiveness of these swap agreements as hedges at inception and on December 31, 2010 and consider these swap agreements to be highly effective cash flow hedges. The swap agreements are recorded under the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets at their aggregate estimated fair value of $11.2 million at December 31, 2010.
During August and September 2007, we entered into four six-month Treasury lock agreements totaling $250.0 million at a weighted average rate of 4.212%. We entered into these Treasury lock agreements in order to hedge the expected interest payments associated with a portion of our October 2007 issuance of $300.0 million of notes which mature in 2013. These Treasury lock agreements were settled in cash on October 17, 2007 for an amount equal to the present value of the difference between the locked Treasury rates and the unwind rate. We reassessed the effectiveness of these agreements at the settlement date and determined that they were highly effective cash flow hedges under ASC 815 for $250.0 million of the $300.0 million of notes as intended. The prevailing Treasury rate exceeded the rates in the Treasury lock agreements and, as a result, the counterparties to those agreements made payments to us of $1.6 million, which was recorded as other comprehensive income. The settlement amounts are being amortized over the life of the debt as a yield reduction. During 2009, we retired $30.0 million of the $300.0 million of senior notes (see Note 10). In connection with the retirement, $0.1 million of the settlement amounts was expensed and is included in the net gain of $4.6 million which is reflected on our consolidated income statements as gain on debt extinguishment. We expect to record $0.3 million of amortization during 2011.
 
In June 2006, we entered into two $125.0 million, two-month Treasury lock agreements in order to hedge the expected interest payments associated with a portion of our July 2006 issuance of $350.0 million of notes which mature in 2011. These Treasury lock agreements were settled in cash on July 11, 2006, concurrent with the pricing of the $350 million of notes, for an amount equal to the present value of the difference between the locked Treasury rates and the unwind rate. We reassessed the effectiveness of these agreements at the settlement date and determined that they were highly effective cash flow hedges under ASC 815 for $250.0 million of the $350.0 million of notes as intended. The prevailing Treasury rate exceeded the rates in the Treasury lock agreements and, as a result, the counterparty to those agreements made payments to us of $1.2 million, which was recorded as other comprehensive income. The settlement amounts are being amortized over the life of the debt as a yield reduction. We expect to record $0.1 million of amortization during 2011.
 
During January 2008, the unconsolidated joint venture we have with a state pension fund investor entered into an interest rate swap contract (see Notes 6 and 17).
 
The following table sets forth amounts included on our consolidated income statements related to the amortization of the Treasury lock agreements for the periods presented:
 
 
17.  Comprehensive Income
 
We recorded the August 2010 swap agreements under the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets at their aggregate estimated fair value of $11.2 million at December 31, 2010.
 
We recorded the August and September 2007 Treasury lock agreements on our consolidated balance sheets at their estimated fair value of $0.1 million as of September 30, 2007. In connection with the settlement of the August and September 2007 Treasury lock agreements on October 17, 2007, we recognized a gain of $1.6 million. The gain was recognized through other comprehensive income and is being amortized over the life of the related $300.0 million of notes which mature in 2013 as a yield reduction. During 2009, we retired $30.0 million of the $300.0 million of senior notes (see Note 10). In connection with the retirement, $0.1 million of the settlement
 
 
amounts was expensed and is included in the net gain of $4.6 million which is reflected on our consolidated income statements as gain on debt extinguishment. We expect to record $0.3 million of amortization during 2011.
 
We recorded the June 2006 Treasury lock agreements on our consolidated balance sheets at their estimated fair value of $1.6 million at June 30, 2006. In connection with the settlement of the June 2006 Treasury lock agreements on July 11, 2006, we recognized a gain of $1.2 million. The gain was recognized through other comprehensive income and is being amortized over the life of the related $350.0 million of notes which mature in 2011 as a yield reduction. We expect to record $0.1 million of amortization during 2011.
 
During January 2008, the unconsolidated joint venture we have with a state pension fund investor entered into an interest rate swap contract (see Note 6). As of December 31, 2010, we had recorded our pro rata share of the unconsolidated joint venture's accumulated other comprehensive loss related to this contract of $3.2 million.
 
ASC Topic 715, , requires changes in the funded status of a defined benefit pension plan to be recognized through comprehensive income in the year in which they occur. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized other comprehensive loss of $0.1 million, $8,000 and $0.2 million, respectively, related to the change in the funded status of our defined benefit pension plan.
Compensation  Retirement Benefits
 
The following table sets forth the computation of comprehensive income for the periods presented:
 
 
18.  Income Taxes
 
The provisions of ASC Topic 740, , which clarify the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements and prescribe a recognition threshold and measurement attribute of tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return became effective January 1, 2007. No amounts have been recorded for unrecognized tax benefits or related interest expense and penalties. The taxable periods ending December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2010 remain open to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and the tax authorities of the significant jurisdictions in which we do business.
Income Taxes
 
Hearthstone Acquisition
 
On June 1, 2006, we acquired the stock of Hearthstone Assisted Living, Inc. ("HAL"), causing HAL to become a qualified REIT subsidiary. As a result of the acquisition, we succeeded to HAL's tax attributes, including HAL's tax basis in its net assets. Prior to the acquisition, HAL was a corporation subject to federal and state income taxes. In connection with the acquisition of HAL, NHP acquired approximately $82.5 million of federal net operating losses ("NOLs") which we can carry forward to future periods and the use of which is subject to annual limitations
imposed by IRC Section 382. While we believe that these NOLs are accurate, any adjustments to HAL's tax returns for periods prior to June 1, 2006 by the Internal Revenue Service could change the amount of the NOLs that we can utilize. We have used a portion of this amount in 2007 and 2008 and anticipate using additional amounts in future years. These NOLs are set to expire between 2017 and 2025. NOLs related to various states were also acquired and are set to expire based on the various laws of the specific states.
 
In addition, we may be subject to a corporate-level tax on any taxable disposition of HAL's pre-acquisition assets that occurs within ten years after the June 1, 2006 acquisition. The corporate-level tax would be assessed only to the extent of the built-in gain that existed on the date of acquisition, based on the fair market value of the asset on June 1, 2006. We do not expect to dispose of any asset included in the HAL acquisition if such a disposition would result in the imposition of a material tax liability, and no such sales have taken place through December 31, 2010. Accordingly, we have not recorded a deferred tax liability associated with this corporate-level tax. Gains from asset dispositions occurring more than 10 years after the acquisition will not be subject to this corporate-level tax. However, we may dispose of HAL assets before the 10-year period if we are able to complete a tax-deferred exchange.
 
19.  Dividends
 
Dividend payments per share to the common stockholders were characterized in the following manner for tax purposes:
 
 
20.  Segment Information
 
Our operations are organized into two segments  triple-net leases and multi-tenant leases. In the triple-net leases segment, we invest in healthcare related properties and lease the facilities to unaffiliated tenants under "triple-net" and generally "master" leases that transfer the obligation for all facility operating costs (including maintenance, repairs, taxes, insurance and capital expenditures) to the tenant. In the multi-tenant leases segment, we invest in healthcare related properties that have several tenants under separate leases in each building, thus requiring active management and responsibility for many of the associated operating expenses (although many of these are, or can effectively be, passed through to the tenants). During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the multi-tenant leases segment was comprised exclusively of medical office buildings.
 
Non-segment revenues primarily consist of interest income on mortgages and unsecured loans and other income. Interest expense, depreciation and amortization and other expenses not attributable to individual facilities are not allocated to individual segments for purposes of assessing segment performance. Non-segment assets primarily consist of corporate assets including mortgages and unsecured loans, investment in unconsolidated joint ventures, cash, deferred financing costs and other assets not attributable to individual facilities.
 
Certain items in prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation, including those required by ASC 360 which require the operating results of any assets with their own identifiable cash flows that are disposed of or held for sale and in which we have no continuing interest to be removed from income from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations. Summary information related to our reportable segments is as follows:
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of net income, a GAAP measure, to NOI, a non-conforming GAAP measure, is as follows:
 
 
21.  Commitments and Contingencies
 
Litigation
 
From time to time, we are a party to various legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims (as to some of which we may not be insured) that arise in the normal course of our business. Regardless of their merits, these matters
may require us to expend significant financial resources. Except as described herein, we are not aware of any other legal proceedings or claims that we believe may have, individually or taken together, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. However, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of pending litigation and claims, and if our assessment of our liability with respect to these actions and claims is incorrect, such actions and claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position.
 
Greenwood Healthcare Center
 
In late 2004 and early 2005, we were served with several lawsuits in connection with a fire at the Greenwood Healthcare Center in Hartford, Connecticut, that occurred on February 26, 2003. At the time of the fire, the Greenwood Healthcare Center was owned by us and leased to and operated by Lexington Healthcare Group ("Lexington Healthcare"). There were a total of 13 lawsuits arising from the fire. Those suits have been filed by representatives of patients who were either killed or injured in the fire. The lawsuits seek unspecified monetary damages. The complaints allege that the fire was set by a resident who had previously been diagnosed with depression. The complaints allege theories of negligent operation and premises liability against Lexington Healthcare, as operator, and us as owner. Lexington Healthcare has filed for bankruptcy. The matters have been consolidated into one action in the Connecticut Superior Court Complex Litigation Docket at the Judicial District at Hartford and are in various stages of discovery and motion practice. We have filed a motion for summary judgment with regard to certain pending claims and will be filing additional summary judgment motions for any remaining claims. Mediation was commenced with respect to most of the claims, and a settlement has been reached in 10 of the 13 pending claims within the limits of our commercial general liability insurance. We obtained a judgment of nonsuit in one case whereby it is now dismissed, and the two remaining claims will be subject to summary judgment motions and ongoing efforts at resolution. Summary judgment rulings are not expected until the end of 2011, if not later.
 
Lexington Insurance, the insurance carrier for Lexington Healthcare, which potentially owes insurance coverage for these claims to us, has filed a lawsuit against us which seeks no monetary damages, but which does seek a court order limiting its insurance coverage obligations to us. We have filed a counterclaim against Lexington Insurance demanding additional insurance coverage from Lexington Insurance in amounts up to $10.0 million. The parties to that case, which is pending on the Complex Litigation Docket for the Judicial District of Hartford, filed cross-motions for summary judgment. Those motions have been decided, resulting in an outcome that is largely favorable for us. The court's ruling indicates $10.0 million in aggregate coverage is available from Lexington Insurance for both the various plaintiffs' claims and our claims under the Professional Liability part of the Lexington Insurance policy. The court then found that there were 13 separate medical incidents for each of the 13 plaintiffs' claims. However, the court limited the coverage to $500,000 per claim with a $250,000 self insured retention per claim, which retention will not be paid due to the bankruptcy of Lexington Healthcare. Further, the court has ruled that both the various plaintiffs' claims and our claims are subject to the same policy limits. The court declined to find coverage for our claims under the comprehensive general liability portions of the Lexington Insurance policy. Lexington Insurance is pursuing an appeal of the rulings. We are currently defending the appeal by Lexington Insurance. We do not expect the appeal to be resolved before the end of 2011, if not later.
 
We are being defended in the matter by our commercial general liability carrier. We believe that we have substantial defenses to the claims and that we have adequate insurance to cover the risks, should liability nonetheless be imposed. However, because the remaining claims are still in the process of discovery and motion practice, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims.
Shareholder Litigation
 
On February 28, 2011, a putative class action entitled , was filed purportedly on behalf of our stockholders in the Superior Court of the State of California, Orange County Superior Court. It names us and members of our Board of Directors as defendants. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our directors breached their fiduciary duties by approving a proposed merger transaction between us and Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas") because the proposed transaction would not maximize shareholder value and would allegedly provide the directors personal benefits not shared by our shareholders. Along with other relief, the complaint seeks an injunction against the closing of the proposed merger.
Palma v. Nationwide
Health Properties, Inc. et al.
 
Development Agreements
 
During 2010, we entered into Mission Hills JV to develop a medical office building (see Note 5) and entered into other agreements to develop a skilled nursing facility (see Note 3) and to fund the expansion of a skilled nursing facility securing a mortgage loan (see Note 4). As of December 31, 2010, we had committed to fund an additional $50.8 million under these agreements, of which $36.4 million relates to Mission Hills JV and is expected to be funded through a third party construction loan.
 
Revolving Loan Facility
 
In 2009, we entered into an agreement with Brookdale under which we became a lender with an initial commitment of $8.8 million under their $230.0 million revolving loan facility (see Note 4). During 2009, we funded $7.5 million which was subsequently repaid. As of December 31, 2009, there was no balance outstanding. The revolving loan facility was terminated as of February 23, 2010. There was no balance outstanding at the date of termination.
 
Lines of Credit
 
Under the terms of an agreement with PMB LLC, we agreed to extend to PMB LLC a $10.0 million line of credit at an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus 175 basis points to fund certain costs of PMB LLC with respect to the proposed development of multi-tenant medical office buildings. During 2010 and 2009, we funded $1.7 million and $3.2 million, respectively, under the line of credit. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, $4.9 million and $3.2 million, respectively, was outstanding and is included in the caption "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets.
 
We entered into an agreement with PMB LLC, the manager of PMB Pomona LLC, to extend up to $3.0 million of funding at an interest rate of 7.25%, which was secured by 100% of the membership interests in PMB Pomona LLC (see Note 22). During 2010 and 2009, we funded $0.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively. The total $1.9 million was repaid during 2010. No further disbursements will be made under the agreement.
 
As of February 1, 2010, in connection with the formation of Gilbert JV, a consolidated joint venture, we agreed to loan Gilbert JV up to $8.8 million as project financing at an interest rate of 7.00%, including $6.8 million that was disbursed initially and remains outstanding at December 31, 2010 (see Note 5).
 
As of March 1, 2010, in connection with the formation of Pasadena JV, a consolidated joint venture, we agreed to loan Pasadena JV up to $56.5 million as project financing at an initial interest rate equal to the greater of 3.50% or LIBOR plus 165 basis points (increasing to the greater of 5.125% or LIBOR plus 375 basis points as of April 1, 2010), including $49.8 million that was disbursed initially and remains outstanding at December 31, 2010 (see Note 5).
 
Indemnities
 
We have entered into indemnification agreements with those partners who contributed appreciated property into NHP/PMB. Under these indemnification agreements, if any of the appreciated real estate contributed by the partners is sold by NHP/PMB in a taxable transaction within a specified number of years after the property was contributed, we will reimburse the affected partners for the federal and state income taxes associated with the pre-contribution gain that is specially allocated to the affected partner under the Code. We have no current plans to sell any of these properties.
 
22.  Related Party Transactions
 
In August 2008, Dr. Jeffrey Rush became a director of NHP. In August 2008, we acquired for $3.5 million a 44.95% interest in PMB SB, an entity that owns two multi-tenant medical office buildings, and as of March 1, 2010, we acquired the remaining interest in PMB SB (see Note 6). Dr. Rush, through an unaffiliated entity, had an ownership interest in PMB SB.
In September 2008, we funded a mortgage loan secured by a multi-tenant medical office building in the amount of $47.5 million which was outstanding as of December 31, 2009 (see Note 4). As of February 1, 2010, we acquired the multi-tenant medical office building, and as a result, the loan was retired (see Notes 4 and 5). Dr. Rush has an ownership interest in another unaffiliated entity that owned the multi-tenant medical office building that was security for this loan.
 
In February 2008, we entered into an agreement with Pacific Medical Buildings LLC to acquire a 50% interest in PMBRES, a full service property management company (see Note 6). Dr. Rush, through an unaffiliated entity, has an ownership interest in PMB Partners LLC which owns 50% of PMBRES.
 
We have also entered into an agreement with PMB Pomona LLC to acquire a medical office building currently in development for $37.5 million upon completion which was amended as of February 1, 2010 to provide for the future acquisition of the medical office building by NHP/PMB. Dr. Rush, through an unaffiliated entity, has an ownership interest in PMB Pomona LLC. We also entered into an agreement with PMB LLC, the manager of PMB Pomona LLC, to extend up to $3.0 million of funding at an interest rate of 7.25%, which was secured by 100% of the membership interests in PMB Pomona LLC (see Note 21).
 
As of March 1, 2010, NHP/PMB became obligated to pay $2.1 million under the Contribution Agreement, of which $1.9 million was paid to Pacific Medical Buildings LLC in cash (see Note 5). During 2009, NHP/PMB became obligated to pay $3.0 million under the Contribution Agreement, of which $2.7 million was payable to Pacific Medical Buildings LLC, 50% in cash and 50% in shares of our common stock (see Note 5). In addition, Dr. Rush and certain of his family members own or owned interests, directly and indirectly through partnerships and trusts, in the entities that contributed the five multi-tenant medical office buildings acquired by NHP/PMB, Gilbert JV and Pasadena JV during 2010 (see Note 5), in PMB Mission Hills 1 LLC (see Note 5) and/or own the remaining development property that may be acquired in the future under the Contribution Agreement.
 
23.  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
 
Amounts in the tables below may not add across due to rounding differences, and certain items in prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation, including those required by ASC 360 which require the operating results of any assets with their own identifiable cash flows that are disposed of or held for sale and in which we have no continuing interest to be removed from income from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations.
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2010, we recognized a net gain on the re-measurement of our equity interest in PMB SB of $0.6 million. During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $15.0 million. During the three months ended June 30, 2009, we recognized a $4.6 million gain on debt extinguishment.
 
24.  Subsequent Events
 
Hearthstone Senior Living
 
In February 2011, our tenant, Hearthstone Senior Services, L.P. ("Hearthstone"), notified us that it would be unable to pay the rent then due under its leases with us, and asked us to amend certain terms of the leases to make rents achievable. In order to substantially increase the ability of Hearthstone to meet its future obligations, we agreed to certain modifications of the terms of our leases with Hearthstone that include, among other things, a reduction in the aggregate rent payable by $7.4 million for the lease year ending February 2012, and by $6.4 million for subsequent lease years. After giving effect to these reductions, the aggregate rent payable by Hearthstone is $31.7 million for the first lease year, $33.7 million for the second lease year and increases by 3% each year thereafter. In connection with the lease modifications, we also obtained the right to terminate any and all of our leases with Hearthstone at any time without cause. We hold a $6.0 million letter of credit that secures Hearthstone's payment obligations to us. However, it is possible that the letter of credit may not be sufficient to compensate us for any future losses or expenses that may arise if Hearthstone defaults under its leases with us. Other terms of our modified arrangements with Hearthstone include:
 
          
We have eliminated supplemental rent obligations, except for supplemental rent accrued prior to February 1, 2011, which totals $6.0 million and becomes payable (i) in full upon an event of default by Hearthstone for which NHP chooses to exercise its remedies, (ii) in full upon a sale of Hearthstone and (iii) in part, if we exercise our right to terminate the leases with Hearthstone without cause.
 
          
We will be entitled to receive revenue participation rent, payable monthly and calculated as 20% of incremental gross revenue over the base month of February 2011, commencing February 1, 2012 and capped in any one year at $6.4 million (subject to annual increases of 3%).
 
          
Upon exercise of our right to terminate the leases without cause, Hearthstone must enter into an operations transfer agreement with a successor operator to allow for an efficient transfer of operations to our designee.
 
          
If we exercise the right to terminate the Hearthstone leases without cause, upon transition of the facilities to a licensed replacement operator we must release to Hearthstone a portion of the $6.0 million letter of credit. The amount released is $3.0 million if the transition occurs prior to September 1, 2011, and increases by $1 million for every six month period thereafter.
 
          
The Chief Executive Officer of Hearthstone has executed a guaranty in our favor that would obligate him to reimburse us the amount of any (i) distributions in excess of permitted amounts, (ii) compensation paid to him in excess of permitted amounts, and (iii) losses arising from customary "bad boy" acts such as fraud, misappropriation of funds, rents or insurance proceeds.
 
Proposed Merger with Ventas
 
On February 27, 2011, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Ventas, a Delaware corporation, and Needles Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Ventas ("Merger Sub").
 
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, NHP will be merged with and into Merger Sub (the "Merger"), with Merger Sub surviving the Merger as a subsidiary of Ventas. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), each outstanding share of common stock, other than shares held by any
 
wholly owned subsidiary of NHP, by Ventas or by any subsidiary of Ventas, will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive 0.7866 shares (the "Exchange Ratio") of common stock of Ventas ("Ventas Common Stock").
 
Immediately prior to the Effective Time:
  (i) each option to purchase common stock will, at the option of Ventas, either be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive a cash payment, or be converted into an option exercisable for a number of shares of Ventas Common Stock, in either case, calculated based on the Exchange Ratio; (ii) all of the restricted stock units will vest and will either be assumed by Ventas or converted into the right to receive a cash amount calculated based on the Exchange Ratio; (iii) each share of restricted stock will vest and will be converted into the right to receive a number of shares of Ventas Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio; (iv) all dividend equivalent rights granted in connection with any other award will vest and will be paid in accordance with their terms; and (v) the performance period for any performance shares will be terminated, and the number of performance shares that vest will be determined based on NHP's actual performance for the shortened performance period, with each performance share that vests converted into the right to receive a number of shares of Ventas Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio.
 
We have made customary representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement and has agreed to customary covenants, including covenants regarding the operation of our business prior to the closing and covenants prohibiting us from soliciting, providing information or entering into discussions concerning proposals relating to alternative business combination transactions, except in limited circumstances relating to unsolicited proposals that constitute, or are reasonably expected to lead to, a superior proposal.
 
Consummation of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval of our stockholders and Ventas's stockholders. The Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances, including by either party if the Merger has not occurred by October 31, 2011, if an order is entered prohibiting or disapproving the transaction and the order has become final and non-appealable, if our stockholders or Ventas fail to approve the transaction, or upon a material uncured breach by the other party that would cause the closing conditions not to be satisfied.
 
Shareholder Litigation
 
On February 28, 2011, a putative class action entitled , was filed purportedly on behalf of our stockholders in the Superior Court of the State of California, Orange County Superior Court. It names us and members of our Board of Directors as defendants. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our directors breached their fiduciary duties by approving a proposed merger transaction between us and Ventas because the proposed transaction would not maximize shareholder value and would allegedly provide the directors personal benefits not shared by our shareholders. Along with other relief, the complaint seeks an injunction against the closing of the proposed merger.
Palma v. Nationwide
Health Properties, Inc. et al.
 
Other
 
From January 1, 2011 to February 28, 2011, we completed approximately $102 million of investments in seven facilities and sold one skilled nursing facility that was included in assets held for sale as of December 31, 2010 for net cash proceeds of $0.8 million (see Note 7).
 
One mortgage loan to Brookdale with a carrying value of $28.3 million (net of a deferred gain of $4.7 million) and secured by five assisted and independent living facilities was prepaid during January 2011 (see Notes 4 and 14).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
On October 22, 2010, Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas" or the "Company") announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 118 private pay seniors housing communities owned and/or operated by Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") (including assets owned by Atria's affiliate, One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("One Lantern")) from funds affiliated with Lazard Real Estate Partners LLC for a purchase price of approximately $3 billion, comprised of $1.35 billion in Ventas common stock (a fixed 24.96 million shares based on Ventas's 10-day volume weighted average price as of October 20, 2010 of $54.09), $150 million in cash and the assumption or repayment of approximately $1.6 billion of debt and capital lease obligations, less assumed cash.
 
On February 28, 2011, Ventas announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. ("NHP") in a stock-for-stock transaction valued at approximately $7 billion.  Under the terms of the agreement, in the merger, NHP stockholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 0.7866 shares of Ventas common stock for each share of NHP common stock they own.
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information sets forth:
 
                 
The historical consolidated financial information of Ventas as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 derived from Ventas's audited consolidated financial statements;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's other 2010 acquisitions and other investments, dispositions and significant debt activity on the consolidated statement of income of Ventas for the year ended December 31, 2010, as if these transactions occurred on January 1, 2010;
                 
The historical consolidated financial information of Atria and One Lantern as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 derived from Atria's and One Lantern's audited consolidated financial statements, respectively;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's acquisition of Atria and One Lantern on the consolidated balance sheet of Ventas as of December 31, 2010, as if the acquisition closed on December 31, 2010;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's acquisition of Atria and One Lantern on the consolidated statement of income of Ventas for the year ended December 31, 2010, as if the acquisition closed on January 1, 2010;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's February 2011 equity issuance, which was completed in contemplation of the acquisition of Atria and One Lantern;
                 
The historical consolidated financial information of NHP as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 derived from NHP's audited consolidated financial statements;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to NHP's 2010 acquisitions and other investments, dispositions, significant debt activity and equity issuances on the consolidated statement of income of NHP for the year ended December 31, 2010, as if these transactions occurred on January 1, 2010;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's acquisition of NHP on the consolidated balance sheet of Ventas as of December 31, 2010, as if the acquisition closed on December 31, 2010; and
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's acquisition of NHP on the consolidated statement of income of Ventas for the year ended December 31, 2010, as if the acquisition closed on January 1, 2010.
 
Certain assets and liabilities of Atria and One Lantern included in the historical consolidated financial information consisting primarily of certain working capital, property leases, insurance items and property management services will not be acquired and have been so reflected in the pro forma adjustments.  Also, certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP has been eliminated in the pro forma adjustments.
 
These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared for informational purposes only and are based on assumptions and estimates considered appropriate by Ventas's management; however, they are not necessarily indicative of what Ventas's consolidated financial condition or results of operations actually would have been assuming the transactions had been consummated as of the dates indicated,
 
 
nor do they purport to represent the consolidated financial position or results of operations for future periods. These unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not include the impact of any synergies that may be achieved in the transactions or any strategies that management may consider in order to continue to efficiently manage Ventas's operations.  This pro forma condensed consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with (1) Ventas's audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on February 18, 2011, (2) Atria's and One Lantern's audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 included herein and (3) NHP's audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 included herein.
 
The acquisition of Atria, One Lantern and NHP will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.  The total purchase price of approximately $10 billion will be allocated to the assets ultimately acquired and liabilities ultimately assumed based upon their respective fair values.  The allocations of the purchase prices reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements have not been finalized and are based upon preliminary estimates of these fair values, which is the best available information at the current time. A final determination of the fair values of the assets and liabilities, which cannot be made prior to the completion of the acquisitions, which are anticipated to occur during 2011, will be based on the actual valuations of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities that exist as of the dates of completion of the acquisitions. Consequently, amounts preliminarily allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities could change significantly from those used in the pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and could result in a material change in depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities.
 
The completion of the valuations, the allocations of purchase price, the impact of ongoing integration activities, the timing of completion of the acquisitions and other changes in tangible and intangible assets and liabilities that occur prior to completion of the acquisitions could cause material differences in the information presented.
 
 
 
NOTE 1  BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION
 
Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas" or the "Company") is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and Canada.  The historical consolidated financial statements of Ventas include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities over which it exercises control.
 
On October 22, 2010, Ventas announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire 118 private pay seniors housing communities owned and/or operated by Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") (including assets owned by Atria's affiliate, One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("One Lantern")) from funds affiliated with Lazard Real Estate Partners LLC ("Lazard") for a purchase price of approximately $3 billion, comprised of $1.35 billion in Ventas common stock (a fixed 24.96 million shares based on Ventas's 10-day volume weighted average price as of October 20, 2010 of $54.09), $150 million in cash and the assumption or repayment of approximately $1.6 billion of debt and capital lease obligations, less assumed cash.
 
On February 28, 2011, Ventas announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. ("NHP") in a stock-for-stock transaction valued at approximately $7 billion.  Under the terms of the agreement, in the merger, NHP stockholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 0.7866 shares of Ventas common stock for each share of NHP common stock they own.
 
NOTE 2  ADJUSTMENTS TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
(A)
     
Reflects historical financial condition or results of operations of Atria as of or for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to Ventas's presentation.
 
(B)
       
Reflects historical financial condition or results of operations of One Lantern as of or for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to Ventas's presentation.
 
(C)
       
Represents adjustments to record the acquisition of Atria and One Lantern by Ventas based upon the purchase price of
approximately
$3 billion.  The calculation of the purchase price to be allocated is as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
(1)
         
Purchase price will be adjusted based on the share price of Ventas common stock at closing consistent with the requirements of ASC 805, .
Business Combinations
 
(D)
      
Reflects historical financial condition or results of operations of NHP as of or for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to Ventas's presentation.
 
(E)
        
Represents adjustments to record the acquisition of NHP by Ventas based upon the purchase price of
approximately
$7 billion.  Additionally,
certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP has been eliminated.
The calculation of the purchase price to be allocated is as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
(1)
         
Purchase price will be adjusted based on the share price of Ventas common stock at closing consistent with the requirements of ASC 805, .
Business Combinations
 
(2)
         
Includes NHP's joint venture share of total debt from its unconsolidated entities.
 
(F)
        
Reflects adjustment to eliminate assets of Atria and One Lantern included in the historical consolidated financial information that Ventas is not purchasing and an adjustment to record the estimated increase over Atria's and One Lantern's historical investment in real estate based upon the preliminary estimated fair value for the tangible and intangible real estate assets to be acquired.  These estimated values are as follows (in millions):
(G)
       
Reflects adjustments to eliminate assets and liabilities of Atria and One Lantern included in the historical consolidated financial information that Ventas is not acquiring or assuming as part of the working capital consideration.
 
(H)
      
Represents the write-off of Atria's, One Lantern's and NHP's historical deferred financing costs, which were not assigned any value in the preliminary purchase price allocation.
 
(I)
           
Reflects adjustment to eliminate other assets of Atria and One Lantern included in the historical consolidated financial information that Ventas is not acquiring as part of the working capital consideration, net of other acquired assets, primarily consisting of goodwill.
 
(J)
          
Represents the following adjustments (in millions):
 
(1)
         
Borrowings are comprised of $150 million of cash to be paid at closing, $176 million for the Atria and/or One Lantern debt anticipated to be repaid at closing and $60 million for estimated transaction and debt extinguishment costs to be paid related to the Atria and One Lantern acquisition.
(K)
      
Reflects adjustment to eliminate other liabilities of Atria and One Lantern included in the historical consolidated financial information that Ventas is not assuming as part of the working capital consideration, offset by approximately $40.2 million of a contingent consideration liability, which is based on the preliminary fair value calculations.
 
(L)
        
Represents the write-off of Atria's historical deferred income tax liability, which was not assigned any value in the allocation of the acquisition, offset by Ventas's estimate of approximately $39.9 million for its deferred tax liability associated with the step up to fair value for book purposes of the Atria and One Lantern assets acquired by a wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiary of Ventas (difference between book and tax bases).
 
(M)
   
Represents the write-off of Atria's and One Lantern's historical equity, net of the issuance of 24.96 million shares of Ventas common stock to be issued in connection with the Atria acquisition, which was valued at $1.35 billion at the time of the announcement of the transaction, and proceeds received from Ventas's February 2011 equity issuance of approximately $300 million. Additionally, the adjustment includes a reduction of stockholders' equity in the amount of $60 million for the estimated transaction and debt extinguishment costs to be paid related to the Atria and One Lantern acquisition.
 
(N)
      
Reflects the acquisition of the noncontrolling interest in One Lantern by Ventas as part of the transaction consideration.
 
(O)
      
Reflects adjustment to record the estimated increase over NHP's historical investment in real estate based upon the preliminary estimated fair value for the tangible and intangible real estate assets to be acquired.  Additionally,
certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP has been eliminated.
These estimated values and eliminations are as follows (in millions):
(P)
       
Reflects the net cash proceeds NHP received in January 2011 from the sale of a skilled nursing facility that was reflected as held for sale at December 31, 2010.
 
(Q)
     
Reflects the elimination of certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP.
 
(R)
      
Reflects adjustment to eliminate historical other assets of NHP that were not assigned any value in the preliminary purchase price allocation, the elimination of the asset held for sale at December 31, 2010 that was subsequently sold by NHP in January 2011 and
the elimination of certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP, net of other acquired assets, primarily consisting of other intangible assets.
 
(S)
       
Represents the following adjustments (in millions):
 
 
(T)
      
Reflects adjustment to eliminate historical other liabilities of NHP that were not assigned any value in the preliminary purchase price allocation,
the elimination of certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP
and the recording of approximately $434.8 million of various lease intangibles, which primarily include below market operating lease intangibles, all of which are based on the preliminary fair value calculations
.
 
(U)
     
Represents the adjustment to record the fair market value of the redeemable OP unitholder interests, which are valued at a price of $44.99 per unit (the acquisition value of each share of NHP common stock at the time the acquisition was announced).
 
(V)
      
Represents the adjustment to convert NHP's historical equity into Ventas common stock, which was valued at a price of $44.99 per common share at the time the acquisition was announced. Additionally, the adjustment includes a reduction of stockholders' equity in the amount of $100 million for the estimated transaction costs to be paid related to the NHP acquisition.
 
(W)
 
Reflects the adjustment to record the estimated increase over NHP's historical noncontrolling interest value based upon the preliminary estimated fair value of the noncontrolling interest.
 
NOTE 3  VENTAS AND NHP 2010 TRANSACTIONS ADJUSTMENTS
 
(X)
      
Adjustments reflect the effect on Ventas's and NHP's historical consolidated statements of income and shares used in computing earnings per common share as if Ventas or NHP had consummated its significant 2010 transactions on January 1, 2010.  With respect to Ventas, these adjustments primarily relate to the recording of income statement activity specific to the acquisition of Lillibridge Healthcare Services, Inc. and the acquisition of Sunrise Senior Living, Inc.'s noncontrolling interest in certain consolidated entities, and adjusting interest expense for a $200 million term loan with Bank of America, N.A. and a $400 million 3.125% senior notes issuance, assuming all transactions occurred on January 1, 2010.  With respect to NHP, the adjustments primarily relate to the recording of income statement activity for 2010 acquisitions (49 properties subject to triple-net leases and 20 multi-tenant medical office buildings), adjusting income from loans and other investments for the funding/acquisition of five new mortgage loans, adjusting interest expense for the prepayment of $118.3 million of secured debt and $175 million of credit facility borrowings and adjusting shares used in computing earnings per share for equity issuances, assuming all transactions occurred on January 1, 2010.
 
 
NOTE 4  ADJUSTMENTS TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
(Y)
     
Reflects adjustments to eliminate historical revenues and expenses of Atria and One Lantern attributable to assets or l
iabilities that Ventas
is not acquiring or assuming as part of the acquisition.
 
(Z)
       
Represents the following adjustments (in millions):
(AA)
       
Based
on the preliminary purc
h
ase price allocation, Ventas expects to allocate $608 million to land and $2.5 billion to buildings and improvements. Depreciation expense is calculated on a straight line basis based on Ventas's purchase price allocation and using a 35-year life for buildings and permanent structural improvements, a five-year life for furniture and equipment and a 10-year life for land improvements. Additionally, Ventas's purchase price allocation includes $101 million of acquired in-place lease intangibles, which will be amortized over the average life of these leases (approximately one year).  Further, the adjustment reflects the elimination of historical depreciation expense related to assets Ventas is not acquiring.
 
(BB)
          
Reflects adjustments to eliminate historical expenses of Atria and One Lantern attributable to assets or liabilities that Ventas is not acquiring or assuming as part of the acquisition, offset by the 5% management fee Ventas will be paying to Atria for management services related to the acquired communities.
 
(CC)
          
Reflects adjustments to eliminate the historical tax benefit of Atria, offset by the estimated tax benefit Ventas expects to recognize due to the acquisition.
 
(DD)
        
Reflects the issuance of 24.96 million shares of Ventas common stock at the Atria and One Lantern acquisition closing and Ventas's February 2011 equity issuance of 5.6 million shares.
 
(EE)
            
Reflects the net amortization of above and below market lease intangibles recorded by Ventas as a result of the NHP acquisition and the
elimination of certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP.
 
(FF)
            
Reflects the net amortization of above and below market lease intangibles recorded by Ventas as a result of the NHP acquisition and the elimination of NHP's historical amortization related to above and below market lease intangibles.
 
(GG)
        
Reflects adjustments to eliminate revenues and expenses of NHP attributable to assets or liabilities that Ventas is not acquiring or assuming as part of the acquisition and the
elimination of certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP
.
 
(HH)
        
Represents the following adjustments (in millions):
 
 
(II)
                   
Based on the preliminary purchase price allocation, Ventas expects to allocate $1.3 billion to land and $5.7 billion to buildings and improvements. Depreciation expense is calculated on a straight line basis based on Ventas's purchase price allocation and using an average 34-year life for buildings and permanent structural improvements, a five-year life for furniture and equipment, an average eight-year life for land improvements and an average four-year life for tenant improvements. Additionally, Ventas's purchase price allocation includes $261 million of in-place acquired lease intangibles, which will be amortized over the average remaining life of these leases.  Further, the adjustment reflects the elimination of
certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP
.
 
(JJ)
                
Reflects adjustment to eliminate gains and expenses of NHP attributable to transactions that would not have occurred had the acquisition closed on January 1, 2010.
 
(KK)
        
Reflects the adjustment to record the estimated increase over NHP's historical income related to the various joint venture entities as a result of the preliminary estimated fair value for the assets and liabilities acquired that will be depreciated and amortized over the estimated remaining useful life.
 
(LL)
            
Reflects the conversion of NHP common stock to Ventas common stock at the exchange ratio of 0.7866.
 
NOTE 5  FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AND NORMALIZED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS
 
Ventas's historical and pro forma funds from operations ("FFO") and normalized FFO for the year ended December 31, 2010 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
Ventas's historical and pro forma FFO and normalized FFO per diluted share outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2010 follows (in thousands, except per share amounts)
(1)
:
 
 
(1)
 Per share amounts may not add due to rounding.
 
Pro forma FFO and normalized FFO are presented for information purposes only, and were based on available information and assumptions that the Company's management believes to be reasonable; however, they are not necessarily indicative of what Ventas's FFO or normalized FFO actually would have been assuming the transactions had occurred as of the dates indicated.
 
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time.  Since real estate values, instead, have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves.  To overcome this problem, Ventas considers FFO and normalized FFO appropriate measures of operating performance of an equity REIT.  Further, Ventas believes that normalized FFO provides useful information because it allows investors, analysts and Ventas management to compare Ventas's operating performance to the operating performance of other real estate companies and between periods on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated items.  Ventas uses the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO.  NAREIT defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate property, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.  Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis.  Ventas defines "normalized FFO" as FFO excluding the following items (which may be recurring in nature): (a) gains and losses on the sales of real property assets; (b)
 
merger-related costs and expenses, including amortization of intangibles and transition and integration expenses, and deal costs and expenses, including expenses and recoveries, if any, relating to the Company's lawsuit against HCP, Inc.; (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuations allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts, make-whole payments, penalties or premiums incurred as a result of early retirement or payment of the Company's debt; (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits or expenses; (e) the impact of future unannounced acquisitions or divestitures (including pursuant to tenant options to purchase) and capital transactions; (f) gains and losses for the non-operational hedge agreements; and (g) any gains or losses on re-measurement of equity interests upon acquisition.
 
FFO and normalized FFO presented herein are not necessarily identical to FFO and normalized FFO presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions.  FFO and normalized FFO should not be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of Ventas's financial performance or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of Ventas's liquidity, nor is FFO and normalized FFO necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of Ventas's needs.  Ventas believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of Ventas's consolidated historical operating results, FFO and normalized FFO should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in the Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements.
 


