FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20120330163530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)
         
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") and One Lantern Inc ("One Lantern") as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2011 were filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to Ventas, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on May 9, 2011.
 
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. ("NHP") as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 were filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Ventas, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on November 25, 2011.
 
(b)
        
Pro
Forma Financial Information.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income of Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas") for the year ended December 31, 2011, giving effect to the Atria, One Lantern and NHP acquisitions, is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 9.01(b) by reference.
 
(c)
         
Shell Company Transactions
.
 
Not applicable.
 
(d)
        
E
xhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
On May 12, 2011, Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas" or the "Company") acquired substantially all of the real estate assets and working capital of privately-owned Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") (including assets owned by Atria's affiliate, One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("One Lantern")).  The Company funded a portion of the purchase price through the issuance of 24.96 million shares of Ventas common stock (which shares had a total value of $1.38 billion based on the May 12, 2011 closing price of Ventas common stock of $55.33 per share). As a result of the transaction, Ventas added to its senior living operating portfolio 117 private pay seniors housing communities and one development land parcel.
 
On July 1, 2011, Ventas acquired Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. ("NHP") in a stock-for-stock transaction.  Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the agreement and plan of merger dated as of February 27, 2011, at the effective time of the merger, each outstanding share of NHP common stock (other than shares owned by Ventas or any of its subsidiaries or any wholly owned subsidiary of NHP) was converted into the right to receive 0.7866 shares of Ventas common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares.  The Company issued 99.8 million shares of Ventas common stock (which shares had a total value of $5.37 billion based on the July 1, 2011 closing price of Ventas common stock of $53.74 per share). In connection with the acquisition, Ventas paid $105 million at closing to repay amounts then outstanding and terminated the commitments under NHP's revolving credit facility. The NHP acquisition added 643 seniors housing and healthcare properties to the Company's portfolio (including properties that are owned through joint ventures).
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information sets forth:
                 
Ventas's historical consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011 (which includes actual results for the acquired Atria and One Lantern assets for the period from May 12, 2011 through December 31, 2011 and actual results for the acquired NHP assets for the period from July 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011), derived from the Company's audited consolidated financial statements;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's 2011 acquisitions and other investments (excluding the Atria, One Lantern and NHP acquisitions), receipt of mortgage loans receivable payments, dispositions, significant debt activity and February 2011 equity issuance on Ventas's consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011, as if these transactions occurred on January 1, 2011;
                 
The historical consolidated statements of operations of Atria and One Lantern for the three months ended March 31, 2011, derived from Atria's and One Lantern's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, respectively;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's acquisition of Atria and One Lantern on Ventas's consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011, as if the transaction occurred on January 1, 2011;
                 
The historical consolidated statement of income of NHP for the six months ended June 30, 2011, derived from NHP's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements;
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to NHP's 2011 acquisitions and other investments, dispositions, significant debt activity and equity issuances on NHP's consolidated statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2011, as if these transactions occurred on January 1, 2011; and
                 
Pro forma adjustments to give effect to Ventas's acquisition of NHP on Ventas's consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011, as if the transaction occurred on January 1, 2011.
 
Certain assets and liabilities of Atria and One Lantern included in the historical consolidated financial information (consisting primarily of certain working capital, property leases, insurance items and property management services) were not acquired by Ventas and have been so reflected in the pro forma adjustments.  Also, certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP has been eliminated in the pro forma adjustments.
 
This unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information has been prepared for informational purposes only and is based on assumptions and estimates considered appropriate by Ventas's management; however, it is not necessarily indicative of what Ventas's actual consolidated results of operations would have been had the transactions been consummated as of the dates indicated, nor does it purport to represent Ventas's future consolidated results of operations. This unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information does not include the impact of any synergies or the full extent of lower borrowing costs that may be achieved as a result of the acquisitions or any strategies that management may consider in order to continue to efficiently manage Ventas's operations.  This pro forma condensed consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with:
 
                 
Ventas's audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year then ended, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on February 22, 2012;
                 
Atria's and One Lantern's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2011, included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on May 9, 2011; and
                 
NHP's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2011, included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on November 25, 2011.
 
The Company is accounting for the Atria, One Lantern and NHP acquisitions under the acquisition method of accounting.  The total purchase prices have been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values.  The allocation of the purchase prices reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income is subject to further adjustment. Amounts initially allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities could change from those used in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income and could result in a change in depreciation and amortization of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities.
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1  BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION
 
Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas" or the "Company") is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with a geographically diverse portfolio of seniors housing and healthcare properties in the United States and Canada.  The historical consolidated financial statements of Ventas include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities over which it exercises control.
 
On May 12, 2011, Ventas acquired substantially all of the real estate assets and working capital of privately-owned Atria Senior Living Group, Inc. ("Atria") (including assets owned by Atria's affiliate, One Lantern Senior Living Inc ("One Lantern")).  The Company funded a portion of the purchase price through the issuance of 24.96 million shares of Ventas common stock (which shares had a total value of $1.38 billion based on the May 12, 2011 closing price of Ventas common stock of $55.33 per share). As a result of the transaction, Ventas added to its senior living operating portfolio 117 private pay seniors housing communities and one development land parcel.
 
On July 1, 2011, Ventas acquired Nationwide Health Properties, Inc. ("NHP") in a stock-for-stock transaction.  Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the agreement and plan of merger dated as of February 27, 2011, at the effective time of the merger, each outstanding share of NHP common stock (other than shares owned by Ventas or any of its subsidiaries or any wholly owned subsidiary of NHP) was converted into the right to receive 0.7866 shares of Ventas common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares.  The Company issued 99.8 million shares of Ventas common stock (which shares had a total value of $5.37 billion based on the July 1, 2011 closing price of Ventas common stock of $53.74 per share). In connection with the acquisition, Ventas paid $105 million at closing to repay amounts then outstanding and terminated the commitments under NHP's revolving credit facility. The NHP acquisition added 643 seniors housing and healthcare properties to the Company's portfolio (including properties that are owned through joint ventures).
 
NOTE 2  VENTAS AND NHP 2011 TRANSACTIONS ADJUSTMENTS
 
(A)
     
Adjustments reflect the effect on Ventas's and NHP's historical consolidated statements of income as if Ventas and NHP had consummated their significant 2011 transactions on January 1, 2011.  With respect to Ventas, these adjustments primarily relate to: recording of income statement activity specific to its 2011 acquisitions of medical office buildings and seniors housing communities that were not part of the Atria, One Lantern and NHP transactions; decreasing interest income due to mortgage loans receivable that were fully repaid to Ventas in 2011; increasing interest expense due to a new $500 million unsecured term loan facility and the issuance of $700 million aggregate principal amount of 4.750% senior notes due 2021; and decreasing interest expense due to the redemption of $200 million aggregate principal amount of 6% senior notes due 2016, the repayment of $339 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% senior notes due 2011 of NHP, the repayment of $230 million aggregate principal amount of 3
7
/
8
% convertible senior notes due 2011 and the Company's new unsecured revolving credit facility.  With respect to NHP, these adjustments primarily relate to: recording of income statement activity specific to its 2011 acquisitions of medical office buildings and seniors housing communities, and increasing income from loans and other investments for the funding or acquisition of new mortgage loans.
 
NOTE 3  ADJUSTMENTS TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
(B)
       
Reflects historical results of operations of Atria for the three months ended March 31, 2011.  Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to Ventas's presentation.
 
(C)
       
Reflects historical results of operations of One Lantern for the three months ended March 31, 2011.  Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to Ventas's presentation.
 
(D)
      
Represents adjustments to record the acquisition of Atria and One Lantern by Ventas.  The calculation of the allocated purchase price is as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
(1)
         
Equity issued based on the May 12, 2011 closing price of Ventas common stock consistent with the requirements of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 805,
Business Combinations.
 
(E)
        
Reflects historical results of operations of NHP for the six months ended June 30, 2011.  Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to Ventas's presentation.
 
(F)
        
Represents adjustments to record the acquisition of NHP by Ventas.  Additionally, certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP has been eliminated. The calculation of the allocated purchase price is as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
(1)
         
Equity issued based on the July 1, 2011 closing price of Ventas common stock consistent with the requirements of ASC 805,
Business Combinations.
(2)
         
Includes NHP's portion of debt related to its investments in unconsolidated entities.
 
(G)
       
Reflects the net amortization of above and below market lease intangibles recorded by Ventas as a result of the Atria and One Lantern acquisition and adjustments to eliminate historical revenues of Atria and One Lantern attributable to assets
that Ventas
did not acquire as part of the acquisition.  Additionally, reflects adjustments to record revenues for the period from April 1, 2011 through May 11, 2011.
 
(H)
      
Reflects adjustments to eliminate historical revenues and expenses of Atria and One Lantern attributable to assets or l
iabilities that Ventas
did not acquire or assume as part of the acquisition.  Additionally, reflects adjustments to record revenues and expenses for the period from April 1, 2011 through May 11, 2011.
 
(I)
           
Represents the following adjustments (in millions):
(J)
          
Based
on the purc
h
ase price allocation, Ventas allocated $342 million to land and improvements and $2.8 billion to buildings and improvements. Depreciation expense is calculated on a straight-line basis based on Ventas's purchase price allocation and using a 35-year life for buildings and permanent structural improvements, a five-year life for furniture and equipment and a ten-year life for land improvements. Additionally, Ventas's purchase price allocation includes $102 million of acquired in-place lease intangibles, which will be amortized over the average remaining life of these leases (approximately eighteen months).  Further, the adjustment reflects the elimination of historical depreciation expense related to assets that Ventas did not acquire as part of the acquisition and the recording of depreciation and amortization for the period from April 1, 2011 through May 11, 2011.
 
(K)
      
Reflects adjustments to eliminate historical expenses of Atria and One Lantern attributable to assets or liabilities that Ventas did not acquire or assume as part of the acquisition, offset by the management fee Ventas paid to Atria in 2011 for management services related to the acquired communities. 
Further, the adjustment reflects the recording of historical expenses for the period from April 1, 2011 through May 11, 2011.
 
(L)
        
Reflects adjustments to eliminate historical income from unconsolidated entities and loss attributable to noncontrolling interest of One Lantern attributable to net assets
that Ventas
did not acquire as part of the acquisition.
 
(M)
   
Reflects adjustments to eliminate the historical tax benefit of Atria, offset by the estimated tax benefit Ventas expects to recognize due to the acquisition.
 
(N)
      
Reflects the issuance of 24.96 million shares of Ventas common stock upon consummation of the Atria and One Lantern acquisition and Ventas's February 2011 issuance of 5.6 million shares of common stock.
 
(O)
      
Reflects the net amortization of above and below market lease intangibles recorded by Ventas as a result of the NHP acquisition and the
elimination of certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP.
 
(P)
        
Reflects the net amortization of above and below market lease intangibles recorded by Ventas as a result of the NHP acquisition and the elimination of NHP's historical amortization related to above and below market lease intangibles.
 
(Q)
      
Reflects adjustments to eliminate revenues of NHP attributable to assets that Ventas did not acquire as part of the acquisition and the elimination of certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP.
 
(R)
       
Represents the following adjustments (in millions):
 
 
(S)
        
Based on the initial purchase price allocation, Ventas allocated $704 million to land and improvements and $6.2 billion to buildings and improvements. Depreciation expense is calculated on a straight-line basis based on Ventas's purchase price allocation and using an average 35-year life for buildings and permanent structural improvements, a five-year life for furniture and equipment, an average ten-year life for land improvements and an average six-year life for tenant improvements. Additionally, Ventas's purchase price allocation includes $178 million of in-place acquired lease intangibles, which will be amortized over the average remaining life of these leases (approximately ten years).  Further, the adjustment reflects the elimination of certain intercompany activity between Atria, One Lantern and NHP.
 
(T)
       
Reflects the adjustment to NHP's historical income related to certain joint ventures as a result of the preliminary estimated fair value for the assets and liabilities acquired that will be depreciated and amortized over the estimated remaining useful life.
 
(U)
      
Adjustment required to account for the issuance of 99.8 million shares of Ventas common stock to consummate the acquisition.
 
NOTE 5  FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AND NORMALIZED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS
 
Ventas's historical and pro forma funds from operations ("FFO") and normalized FFO for the year ended December 31, 2011 are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Ventas's historical and pro forma FFO and normalized FFO per diluted share outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2011 follows (in thousands, except per share amounts)(1):
 
 
(1) Per share amounts may not add due to rounding.
 
 
Pro forma FFO and normalized FFO are presented for information purposes only, and were based on available information and assumptions that the Company's management believes to be reasonable; however, they are not necessarily indicative of what Ventas's actual FFO or normalized FFO would have been had the transactions occurred as of the dates indicated.
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time.  Since real estate values, instead, have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves.  To overcome this problem, Ventas considers FFO and normalized FFO appropriate measures of operating performance of an equity REIT.  Moreover, Ventas believes that normalized FFO provides useful information because it allows investors, analysts and the Company's management to compare Ventas's operating performance to the operating performance of other real estate companies and between periods on a consistent basis without having to account for differences caused by unanticipated items and other events such as transactions and litigation.  Ventas uses the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO.  NAREIT defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate property and impairment write-downs of depreciable real estate, plus real estate depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for
 
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.  Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect FFO on the same basis.  Ventas defines "normalized FFO" as FFO excluding the following income and expense items (which may be recurring in nature): (a) gains and losses on the sales of real property assets; (b) merger-related costs and expenses, including amortization of intangibles and transition and integration expenses, and deal costs and expenses, including expenses and recoveries relating to the Company's lawsuit against HCP, Inc.; (c) the impact of any expenses related to asset impairment and valuation allowances, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts, make-whole payments, penalties or premiums incurred as a result of early retirement or payment of the Company's debt; (d) the non-cash effect of income tax benefits or expenses; (e) the impact of future unannounced acquisitions or divestitures (including pursuant to tenant options to purchase) and capital transactions; (f) the financial impact of contingent consideration; (g) charitable donations made to the Ventas Charitable Foundation; and (h) gains and losses for non-operational foreign currency hedge agreements and changes in the fair value of financial instruments.
 
FFO and normalized FFO presented herein are not necessarily identical to FFO and normalized FFO presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions.  FFO and normalized FFO should not be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as indicators of Ventas's financial performance or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP) as measures of Ventas's liquidity, nor are FFO and normalized FFO necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of Ventas's needs.  Ventas believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of Ventas's consolidated historical operating results, FFO and normalized FFO should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income included herein.
 


