ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements. OVERVIEW The Company is a global leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of orthopaedic reconstructive implants and trauma products. Orthopaedic reconstructive implants restore joint function lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and elbows. Trauma products are devices used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to support the bodys natural healing process. The Company also manufactures and markets surgical products for orthopaedic and general surgery. With operations in 20 countries and products marketed in 70 countries, operations are managed through three geographic regions the Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2002, increased 16 percent. Sales growth reflected strong demand for the Companys reconstructive implants, including the NexGen line of knee products and the VerSys Hip System. New products launched within the last 36 months represented 18 percent of total sales, including the successful recent launches of key products including the Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene for NexGen Cruciate Retaining Knee, the Trabecular Metal Monoblock tibials, the Rotating Hinge Knee and the Trabecular Metal acetabular cups. Favorable demographics helped drive increased surgical procedures in all regions, with the Companys largest operating segment, the Americas, as well as Europe, leading the overall outstanding results. The increase was comprised of a 12 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales and a 4 percent increase due to higher average selling prices. Net sales in the Americas increased 18 percent for the year to $932.9 million compared to 2001. This increase was comprised of a 13 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales, together with a 5 percent increase due to higher average selling prices. Sales of reconstructive implants increased by 21 percent with strong sales in all categories. Knee sales increased 24 percent led by growth in sales of NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Knee, NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee, NexGen Cruciate Retaining Knee components incorporating Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene, the M/G Unicompartmental Knee, which features Minimally Invasive Solutions (MIS) Instrumentation and the recently launched NexGen Trabecular Metal tibial component. Hip sales increased 17 percent driven by continued conversion to porous stems, Trabecular Metal acetabular cups, and increased sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Trauma product sales increased 10 percent for the year in large part due to increased sales of the Zimmer Periarticular Plating System and the Zimmer Plates and Screws. Net sales in Asia Pacific increased 6 percent (increased 8 percent constant currency) for the year to $269.6 million. This increase was comprised of a 7 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales and 1 percent increase due to higher average selling prices, offset by a 2 percent decrease due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Knee sales increased 9 percent (increased 11 percent constant currency) reflecting continued strong growth in the NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee. Hip sales increased 11 percent (increased 14 percent constant currency) driven primarily by the continued conversion to porous stems and sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups 13 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Trauma product sales decreased 13 percent (decreased 10 percent constant currency) reflecting a decline in M/DN Intramedullary Fixation nails and compression hip screw sales, primarily in Japan. Net sales in Europe increased 28 percent (increased 23 percent constant currency) to $169.9 million. The strong sales reflected high demand on reconstructive implants. Eastern Europe, Finland, France, Scandinavia, Switzerland and the United Kingdom all achieved higher than 30 percent growth in reconstructive implant sales. This increase was comprised of 20 percent due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales, a 3 percent increase due to higher average selling prices and a 5 percent increase due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Knee sales increased 27 percent (increased 22 percent constant currency) driven by strong sales of the NexGen Legacy system of knee prostheses, including the Flex Knee, the M/G Unicompartmental Knee with MIS Instrumentation, and the recently launched Rotating Hinge Knee. Hip sales increased 33 percent (increased 28 percent constant currency) driven by strong sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, VerSys porous stems, supported by the ZMR Modular Revision Hip System and Trabecular Metal acetabular cups. Overall, worldwide reconstructive implant sales increased 20 percent (increased 20 percent constant currency) to $1,061.7 million. Knee sales increased by 22 percent (increased 21 percent constant currency) to $586.1 million, led by NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Knee including the Flex Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal tibial components, the NexGen Cruciate Retaining Knee with Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene, and the M/G Unicompartmental Knee with MIS Instrumentation. Hip sales increased 17 percent (increased 17 percent constant currency) to $441.1 million driven by continued conversion to porous stems, Trabecular Metal acetabular cups, and increased sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Longevity Liner sales comprised 85 percent of primary hip liner sales in 2002. Trauma product sales increased 4 percent (increased 5 percent constant currency) to $133.8 million, led by sales of the Zimmer Periarticular Plating System. Orthopaedic surgical product sales increased by 8 percent (increased 9 percent constant currency) to $176.9 million, led by the continued growth of the OrthoPAT Autotransfusion System. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 74.9 percent in 2002 compared to 72.7 percent in 2001, or 73.7 percent excluding separation costs of $11.9 million. The increase was attributable to increased average selling prices realized in all segments, the continued conversion from cemented hip implants to higher margin porous products, increased penetration of Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, higher sales of revision implants and various manufacturing improvements. The Company upgraded its automated foundry process for casting knee femorals, hip stems and cups. An increased number of products were moved to robotic polishing, as well as, additional porous knee femorals converted to the fiber metal laser welding process. Several products previously purchased from outside suppliers were moved in house for production. Investments in high speed machining and new tooling technologies made improvements in reducing both product cycle times and scrap. Lastly, standardization of the Companys manufacturing processes resulted in improvement in efficiency. Research and development as a percentage of net sales was 5.9 percent in 2002 compared to 6.1 percent in 2001 or 5.8 percent excluding separation costs of $3.2 million. Increases in research and development costs outpaced sales growth, reflecting investments in active and new projects, and is consistent with the Companys stated target to be at the higher end of the industry average, or approximately 6 percent of sales. The Company has many active projects underway focused on areas of strategic significance, including MIS and the establishment of The Zimmer Institute, innovative materials such as Trabecular Metal and Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene, lifestyle designs, revision implants and biotechnology. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales were 39.8 percent in 2002 compared to 45.6 percent in 2001, or 40.9 percent excluding separation costs of $54.9 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 13 percent to $546.0 million in 2002 from $482.2 million, excluding separation costs of $54.9 million, in 2001. Excluding separation costs, the improvement in the expense ratio reflects lower selling expenses as a result of lower costs associated with the Companys U.S. distributor network, sales force and distributor reorganization in Japan, and improved efficiency in the utilization of instruments. This was partially offset by approximately $2 million of consulting costs associated with tax services and analysis of various external development opportunities, continued investments in various strategic initiatives including MIS, direct to consumer advertising, training and medical education, and higher insurance premiums. Operating profit increased 62 percent in 2002 to $400.9 million from $248.3 million in 2001, or increased 26 percent from $318.3 million excluding separation costs of $70.0 million, due to controlled increases in operating expenses at rates below sales growth. The effective tax rate on earnings before taxes decreased to 33.7 percent in 2002 compared to 37.8 percent in 2001, or 35.8 percent excluding separation costs. The decrease from 35.8 percent to 33.7 percent was due to expanded operations in Puerto Rico, increased R&D credits, higher foreign tax credits and the implementation of certain business strategies in 2002 which resulted in reducing taxes in certain jurisdictions and increased credits. Net earnings increased 72 percent to $257.8 million from $149.8 million in 2001, due to improved gross profit, lower rate of increase in selling, general and administrative expenses than sales and the incurrence of $70.0 million 14 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K ($49.9 million, net of tax) of separation costs in 2001. Basic and diluted earnings per share increased 73 percent and 70 percent to $1.33 and $1.31, respectively, from $0.77 in 2001. Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2001 increased 13 percent (increased 17 percent constant currency). Sales growth reflected strong demand for reconstructive implants and outstanding results in the Companys largest operating segment, the Americas. This increase in the Americas was partially offset by weak local currencies in Asia Pacific and Europe. This increase was comprised of a 14 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales, a 3 percent increase due to higher average selling prices and a 4 percent decrease due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The introduction of new materials, techniques and technologies has contributed to a significant increase in demand for the Companys products and has generally had a favorable effect on sales as average selling prices for the new materials and technologies generally exceed those being replaced. For example, sales have been favorably affected by a market shift from cruciate retaining designs to posterior stabilized designs for total knee procedures. The Company maintains a relatively strong market position in posterior stabilized knees. Sales have also benefited from a market shift from cemented components to higher priced porous components for total hip replacements. Introduction of the ZMR Revision Hip System provided the Company with a more comprehensive offering in a market subcategory that is reported to experience a higher growth rate than primary hip replacements. Introduction of the Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Articular Surface for total knee replacement procedures exemplifies the Companys continued use of innovative materials and technologies and follows the successful introduction of the Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liner for total hip replacement procedures. The market acceptance of the Longevity Polyethylene Liner, which commands premium prices in most markets over the standard polyethylene liner, has been rapid. Net sales in the Americas increased 21 percent to $790.7 million compared to 2000. This increase was comprised of a 16 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales, together with a 5 percent increase due to higher average selling prices. Sales of reconstructive implants increased 25 percent with strong sales in all categories. Knee sales increased 25 percent led by growth in sales of NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Knee, the recently introduced NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee, as well as the M/G Unicompartmental Knee, now featuring MIS instrumentation. Hip sales increased 23 percent, driven by continued conversion to porous stems, the ZMR Modular Revision Hip System, Trabecular Metal acetabular cups, and increased sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Trauma product sales increased 11 percent, in large part due to the introduction of the new ZPS internal fixation devices during the fourth quarter and increased sales in fracture instruments. Net sales in Asia Pacific decreased 4 percent to $255.2 million compared to 2000. This decrease was comprised of an 8 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales, which was more than offset by a 12 percent decrease due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Knee sales decreased 6 percent (increased 5 percent constant currency), reflecting continuing strong sales of NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee. Hip sales decreased 2 percent (increased 9 percent constant currency) driven primarily by continued conversion to porous stems, introduction of the ZMR Revision Hip System and sales of Trilogy cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Trauma products decreased 8 percent (increased 3 percent constant currency) with higher sales of M/DN Intramedullary Fixation nails offset by weaker sales of compression hip screws. Net sales in Europe increased 10 percent (increased 14 percent constant currency) to $132.7 million compared to 2000. This increase was comprised of a 13 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales, a 1 percent increase due to higher average selling prices and a 4 percent decrease due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. This increase was driven by double digit growth in Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. Knee sales increased 13 percent (increased 17 percent constant currency) driven by strong sales of the NexGen Legacy system of knee prostheses as well as M/G Unicompartmental Knee with MIS instrumentation. Hip sales increased 11 percent (increased 15 percent constant currency) supported by the recent introduction of the ZMR Revision Hip System and increased sales of Trilogy cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Trauma sales decreased 8 percent (decreased 4 percent constant currency) in comparison to high volume tender sales that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2000. Overall, worldwide reconstructive implant sales increased 16 percent (increased 19 percent constant currency) to $886.5 million. Knee sales increased by 16 percent (increased 20 percent constant currency) to $481.7 million, reflecting continued strong sales of the NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Knee and NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee, introduced recently in the Americas. Hip sales increased by 15 percent (increased 19 percent constant currency) to $376.6 million, driven by continued conversion to porous hip stems, strong sales of Trilogy cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners and the continuing introduction of the ZMR Revision Hip System. Trauma product sales increased 4 percent (increased 8 percent constant currency) to $128.3 million, driven by the introduction of the new ZPS internal fixation devices and strong sales of M/DN nails in Asia Pacific. Orthopaedic 15 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K surgical product sales increased 7 percent (increased 10 percent constant currency) to $163.8 million, led by the introduction of the OrthoPAT Autotransfusion System, that can be used perioperatively. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 72.7 percent in 2001, or 73.7 percent excluding separation costs of $11.9 million, compared to 72.1 percent in 2000. This increase was due to higher average selling prices, favorable premium priced product mix, as well as improved manufacturing efficiencies associated with increased sales volume and enhanced productivity. This was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and inflationary expense increases, including wages and fringe benefits. Research and development as a percentage of net sales was 6.1 percent in 2001, or 5.8 percent excluding separation costs of $3.2 million, compared to 5.0 percent in 2000. This increase was due to higher spending on research and development activities focused on broadening the Companys product offerings in areas such as less invasive approaches to orthopaedic procedures, incorporation of new materials such as Trabecular Metal and highly crosslinked polyethylene. Research and development expenditures, consistent with the Companys strategy to offer innovative new products and comprehensive solutions, increased over 50 percent to $68.4 million, excluding separation costs, for the 2 year period ended December 31, 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales were 45.6 percent in 2001, or 40.9 percent excluding separation costs of $54.9 million, compared to 41.3 percent in 2000. In the fourth quarter 2001, the Company recorded a $3.0 million pretax charge for possible payments of non reimbursed, direct medical expenses to patients who chose to revise certain recalled Saint Gobain manufactured Zirconia femoral heads. Excluding the costs of separation and charges related to Saint Gobain, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 11 percent to $474.9 million in 2001 from $429.8 million in 2000. This increase was driven by an increase in selling and marketing expenses where the Company continued to invest in selling and marketing programs, including sales force expansion, support for the U.S. distributor network, target direct to customer advertising and the establishment of the MIS business unit. General and administrative expenses, in dollar terms, remained constant in 2001 compared with 2000, reflecting strict expense controls across all geographic regions. Over the four year period ended December 31, 2001, general and administrative expenses excluding the aforementioned $3.0 million have remained constant while net sales increased by over $300 million. Operating profit decreased 7 percent in 2001 to $248.3 million from $268.0 million in 2000. Excluding separation costs of $70.0 million, operating profit increased 19 percent to $318.3 million, due primarily to the increase in gross profit margin, together with expense leveraging. The effective tax rate on earnings before taxes increased to 37.8 percent in 2001 compared to 34.3 percent in 2000. Excluding separation costs, the effective tax rate increased to 35.8 percent. The tax provision prior to August 6, 2001 was computed by the Companys former parent. The Companys tax rate after August 6, 2001 was 36.1 percent on a pro forma separate return basis. Net earnings decreased 15 percent in 2001 to $149.8 million from $176.0 million in 2000, principally due to the incurrence of $70.0 million ($49.9 million net of tax) of separation costs related to the Distribution. The net earnings decrease was partially offset by improvements in gross profit and lower selling, general and administrative expenses excluding separation costs. Basic and diluted earnings per share decreased 15 percent in 2001 to $0.77 from $0.91 in 2000. OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT The following table sets forth the operating profit by segment for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000: Operating Profit by Segment Percent of net sales Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Americas 46.5 % 45.1 % 47.8 % Asia Pacific 43.7 41.1 38.1 Europe 21.0 15.6 15.3 Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Operating profit for the Americas as a percentage of net sales increased to 46.5 percent in 2002 from 45.1 percent in 2001, reflecting improved gross profit margins due to higher average selling prices and increased sales of higher margin products, and lower selling expenses as a percent of sales due to lower costs associated with the U.S. distributor network. The Americas continued to invest in strategic initiatives such as MIS, field sales personnel, medical education programs and new product launches. Operating profit for Asia Pacific as a percentage of net sales increased to 43.7 percent in 2002 from 41.1 percent in 2001. This increase reflects lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales in Japan as a result of a sales force and distributor reorganization, partially offset by lower gross profit margins as a result of lower yen hedge gains compared to 2001. Operating profit for Europe as a percentage of net sales increased to 21.0 percent in 2002 from 15.6 percent in 2001, due to improved gross profit margins as a result of higher average selling prices and favorable product and country mix, the leveraging of sales growth in Europe on controlled increases in operating expenses and improved efficiency in the utilization of instruments. 16 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Operating profit for the Americas as a percentage of net sales decreased to 45.1 percent in 2001 from 47.8 percent in 2000. This decrease reflects higher selling expenses partially offset by favorable effects of increased sales of higher margin products and higher average selling prices. Operating profit for Asia Pacific as a percentage of net sales increased to 41.1 percent in 2001 from 38.1 percent in 2000. While revenues were adversely affected by weak local currencies, the negative impact of foreign currency on sales was largely mitigated in operating profit by gains on derivative financial instruments (more fully described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein under Item 8), asset management and expense reduction initiatives. Operating profit for Europe as a percentage of net sales increased to 15.6 percent in 2001 from 15.3 percent in 2000. The increase in 2001 was due to favorable country and product mix. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash flow generated from operations was $220.2 million in 2002, compared with $171.8 million in 2001. The principal source of cash was net earnings of $257.8 million, non cash charges for depreciation of $25.3 million, partially offset by working capital investments of $62.9 million. In 2001, the Company incurred $70.0 million ($49.9 million net of tax) for the separation from its former parent. Working capital continues to be a key management focus. The Company strategically invested in inventory and instruments to support strong sales growth in the Americas and Europe, and to support new products launched during the year as well as expected to be launched in 2003. The Company intends to operate at approximately 250 to 260 days of inventory and ended 2002 at 247 days. Accounts receivable collection remained strong, with the Americas at a record 33 days, 4 days favorable to prior year. During the year, the Company contributed $20.7 million to the U.S. and Puerto Rico pension plans, representing maximum allowable funding, for liabilities assumed from its former parent on Distribution, in addition to liabilities accrued since Distribution. The Company expects 2003 pension contributions to be lower than the 2002 level. Cash flow used in investing activities was $35.7 million in 2002 compared with $54.7 million in 2001. In 2001, the Company invested in the expansion of its manufacturing and distribution capacity with an addition to the Companys main distribution center in Warsaw, Indiana, to support sales growth. In 2002, the Company continued to invest in computer hardware and software for the new information technology system for the Companys North American operations and additional computer system infrastructure required as a result of the separation. The Company has a $600 million, committed, multi currency, revolving senior unsecured syndicated credit agreement (the Credit Facility) that matures July 31, 2004. The Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. The Company is in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2002. Also, the Credit Facility restricts the payment of dividends and the making of investments if the Company does not have an investment grade rating, as defined. The Companys credit rating as of December 31, 2002 met such requirement. Available borrowings under the Credit Facility at December 31, 2002, were $443.8 million. Borrowings under the Credit Facility may bear interest at higher or lower margins above LIBOR, based on the Companys senior unsecured long term debt rating and the amounts drawn under the Credit Facility. Cash provided by operating activities, together with proceeds from issuance of common stock, were used in 2002 to fund payments of debt of $212.8 million. The Company had $15.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and outstanding borrowings of $156.7 million as of December 31, 2002. The Company expects to pay off the remaining debt balance by the end of 2003 with cash provided from operations absent any cash requirements for acquisitions during the period. The Company intends to maintain a capital structure that is consistent with an investment grade credit rating. Management believes that cash flows from operations, together with available borrowings under the Credit Facility, will be sufficient to meet the Companys working capital, capital expenditure and debt service needs. Should investment opportunities arise, the Company believes that its earnings, balance sheet and cash flows will allow the Company to obtain additional capital, if necessary. The ability to issue additional equity is subject to limitations in order to preserve the tax free nature of the distribution. Under the tax sharing agreement with its former parent, the Company is required to indemnify the former parent for the amount of any tax imposed under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. 17 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The Company has entered into contracts with various third parties in the normal course of business which will require future payments. The following table illustrates the Companys contractual obligations: Less Than 1 1 3 4 5 After 5 Contractual Obligations Total Year Years Years Years Short term debt $ 156.7 $ 156.7 $ $ $ Operating leases 36.9 8.3 12.7 7.3 8.6 Minimum purchase commitments 25.0 25.0 Total contractual obligations $ 218.6 $ 190.0 $ 12.7 $ 7.3 $ 8.6 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial results of the Company are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods. Significant accounting policies which, in some cases, require managements judgment are discussed below. Revenue Recognition A significant portion of the Companys revenue is recognized for field based product upon notification that the product has been implanted or used. For all other transactions, the Company recognizes revenue when title is passed to customers, generally upon shipment. Estimated returns and allowances are recorded as a reduction of sales when the revenue is recognized. Inventories The Company must determine as of each balance sheet date how much, if any, of its inventory may ultimately prove to be unsaleable or unsaleable at its carrying cost. Reserves are established to effectively adjust any such inventory to net realizable value. To determine the appropriate level of reserves, the Company evaluates current stock levels in relation to historical and expected patterns of demand for all of its products. A series of algorithms is applied to the data to assist management in its evaluation. Management evaluates the need for changes to valuation reserves based on market conditions, competitive offerings and other factors on a regular basis. Further information about inventory reserves is provided in notes to the consolidated financial statements. Instruments The Company, as is customary in the industry, consigns surgical instruments for use in orthopaedic procedures with the Companys products. The Companys accounting policy requires that the full cost of instruments be recognized as an expense in the year in which the instruments are placed in service. An alternative to this method is to depreciate the cost of instruments over their useful lives. The Company may from time to time consider a change in accounting for instruments to better align its accounting policy with certain Company competitors. Property, Plant and Equipment The Company determines estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment based on historical patterns of use and physical and technological characteristics of assets, as appropriate. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the Company reviews property, plant and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated future cash flows relating to the asset are less than its carrying amount. Derivative Financial Instruments Critical aspects of the Companys accounting policy for derivative financial instruments include conditions which require that critical terms of a hedging instrument are essentially the same as a hedged forecasted transaction. Another important element of the policy requires that formal documentation be maintained as required by the SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Failure to comply with these conditions would result in a requirement to recognize changes in market value of hedge instruments in earnings as they occur. Management routinely monitors significant estimates, assumptions and judgments associated with derivative instruments, and compliance with formal documentation requirements. Stock Compensation The Company applies the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, in accounting for stock based compensation; therefore, no compensation expense has been recognized for its fixed stock option plans as options are granted at fair market value. SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation provides an alternative method of accounting for stock options based on an option pricing model, such as Black Scholes. The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. Information regarding compensation expense under the alternative method is provided in notes to the consolidated financial statements. 18 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits The Companys pension and postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are calculated utilizing various actuarial assumptions and methodologies prescribed under SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions and No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. The most significant actuarial assumptions include the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and the expected healthcare cost trend rate. Other actuarial assumptions utilized in determining pension and postretirement benefit costs include, among others, mortality rates and employee turnover rates. The discount rate assumption is based upon the review of high quality corporate bond rates and the change in those rates during the year. The expected rate of return on plan assets and healthcare cost trend rate are based upon an evaluation of trends and experiences taking into account current and expected market conditions. A twenty five basis point change in the discount rate or the expected rate of return on plan assets would not have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. A reasonable change in the other actuarial assumptions would not have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Income Taxes The Company estimates income tax expense and income tax liabilities and assets by taxable jurisdiction. Realization of deferred tax assets in each taxable jurisdiction is dependent on the Companys ability to generate future taxable income sufficient to realize the benefits. The Company evaluates deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and provides valuation allowances if it is determined to be more likely than not that the deferred tax benefit will not be realized. Federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the U.S. Commitments and Contingencies Accruals for product liability and other claims are established with internal and external counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for claims, related fees and for claims incurred but not reported. An actuarial model is used by the Company to assist management in determining an appropriate level of accruals for product liability claims. Historical patterns of claim loss development over time are statistically analyzed to arrive at factors which are then applied to loss estimates in the actuarial model. The amounts established represent managements best estimate of the ultimate costs that it will incur under the various contingencies. SEPARATION FROM BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB The Company was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of Bristol Myers Squibb on January 12, 2001. On July 25, 2001, Bristol Myers Squibb transferred the assets and liabilities of its orthopaedic business to the Company. On August 6, 2001, Bristol Myers Squibb distributed all of the shares of Company common stock to Bristol Myers Squibb stockholders in the form of a dividend of one share of Company common stock, and the associated preferred stock purchase right, for every 10 shares of Bristol Myers Squibb common stock. In addition, the Company assumed all obligations under a $600 million credit facility (Credit Facility) established by the Company and its former parent with then outstanding borrowings of $290 million. With additional borrowings under the Credit Facility, the Company repaid amounts due to its former parent of approximately $90 million, and finally, the Company assumed an additional $22 million of borrowings under the Credit Facility for separation costs. In addition, the Company recognized certain liabilities and obligations for pension, post retirement, long term disability and U.S. sales agent benefits. Recognition of these liabilities and obligations and other adjustments were reflected in the remaining net investment in the Company by its former parent of $14.1 million as of the Distribution and subsequently reclassified to opening retained earnings. The Distribution qualified as a tax free transaction under Section 355 and 368 (a) (1) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as more fully described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein under Item 8. The Company incurred $70.0 million ($49.9 million net of taxes) in costs, fees and expenses relating to the separation from Bristol Myers Squibb and the related distribution of Company common stock to Bristol Myers Squibb stockholders which was partially funded by additional borrowings under the credit facility. The costs, fees and expenses were primarily for retention bonuses, legal separation matters, professional expenses and costs of producing, printing, mailing and distributing the information statement relating to the Distribution. Except for separation costs and the ongoing interest cost associated with debt assumed or incurred as of the Distribution, the Company does not currently anticipate that operating costs resulting from the separation from its former parent will materially impact its cost structure as reflected in its historical consolidated results. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Information about recent accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein under Item 8. 19 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to certain market risks as part of its ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, that could impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company manages its exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivative financial instruments are used solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK The Company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its transactions and net assets denominated in Japanese Yen and the Euro. The Company manages the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows the Company to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. In order to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major international financial institutions. These forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. The notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward and option contracts, principally Japanese Yen and the Euro, entered into with third parties, at December 31, 2002 and 2001, were $252 million and $82 million, respectively. For all contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002: the Company has obligation to purchase U.S. Dollars and sell Japanese Yen and the Euro at set maturity dates ranging from January 2003 through September 2004. The weighted average contract rates for 2003 and 2004 are 129 and 117 Yen and $0.97 and $1.03 Euro, respectively. The Company maintains written policies and procedures governing its risk management activities. The Companys policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. On this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. As part of its risk management program, the Company furthermore performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002, indicated that, if the U.S. Dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the Japanese Yen and the Euro, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $17.1 million and $9.9 million for the Yen and Euro contracts, respectively. Any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. Consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject the Company to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. The Company had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $135 million and $87 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, primarily in the Japanese Yen and the Euro. COMMODITY PRICE RISK The Company purchases raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, medical grade polymer and sterile packaging. The Company enters into 12 to 24 month supply contracts on these commodities to alleviate the impact of market fluctuation in prices. As part of the Companys risk management program, sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes are performed. A 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. INTEREST RATE RISK In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company manages its exposure to interest rate risks through its regular operations and financing activities. Presently, the Company invests its cash and cash equivalents in money market and investment grade short term debt instruments. The primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of its invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. Currently, the Company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk arises principally from the variable rates associated with its credit 20 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K facilities. The Company is subject to movements in interest rate risk on the committed Credit Facility and its uncommitted credit facilities. Presently, all of its debt outstanding is floating. The Company currently does not hedge its interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. Based upon the Companys overall interest rate exposure as of December 31, 2002, a change of 10% in interest rates would not have a material effect on the Companys earnings or cash flows over a one year period. However, due to the uncertainty of the actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action, nor management actions to mitigate interest rate changes. Further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Presently, the Company intends to utilize cash flow to reduce outstanding borrowings. CREDIT RISK Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. The Company places its investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. The Company does not believe it is exposed to any significant credit risk on its cash and cash equivalents and investments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the financial institutions with which it conducts business. However, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed the obligation of the Company. The Company also minimizes exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Credit risk is managed through the monitoring of counterparty financial condition and by the use of standard credit guidelines. The Company does not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. However, essentially all of the Companys trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the U.S. and internationally or with distributors who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. Repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. Exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and the Company believes that reserves for losses are adequate. There is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 21 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2002 FORM 10 K 
 
