ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements. OVERVIEW The Company is a global leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of reconstructive orthopaedic implants, including joint and dental, spinal implants, and trauma products and related orthopaedic surgical products. Orthopaedic reconstructive implants restore joint function lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and elbows. Dental reconstructive implants restore function and aesthetics in patients that have lost teeth due to trauma or disease. Spinal implants are utilized by orthopaedic surgeons and neurosurgeons in the treatment of degenerative diseases, deformities and trauma in all regions of the spine. Trauma products are devices used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to support the bodys natural healing process. The Companys related orthopaedic surgical products include supplies and instruments designed to aid in orthopaedic surgical procedures. With operations in more than 24 countries and products marketed in more than 80 countries, operations are managed through three reportable geographic segments the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. Events Affecting Operating Performance in 2003. Centerpulse results of operations have been included in the Companys results subsequent to the completion of that acquisition on October 2, 2003, and their respective assets and liabilities have been recorded at their estimated fair values in the Companys consolidated statement of financial position as of October 2, 2003, with the excess purchase price being allocated to goodwill. The pending acquisition of Implex gives the Company enhanced flexibility in the development of products using Trabecular Metal Technology, which the Company believes has significant potential in orthopaedic reconstructive and spinal product applications. The Company continues to make significant progress in the development and introduction of MIS Procedures and Technologies. This includes the continued rollout of the Zimmer MIS 2 Incision Hip Replacement Procedure, and the development of the MIS Quad Sparing Total Knee Procedure that the Company introduced at the 2004 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons meeting in San Francisco. The Company believes such innovative approaches will significantly impact the orthopaedics industry. Since its opening in March 2003, the Zimmer Institute in Warsaw, Indiana has seen extensive use for MIS education, new product development meetings and sales training programs. During the year, the Company continued to expand the Zimmer Institutes global affiliations. With the acquisition of Centerpulse, the Company begins an exciting new chapter in its history. The successful integration of the Centerpulse business, which began in the fourth quarter, is the Companys critical objective for the near term. More than 100 full time personnel from Zimmer, Centerpulse and independent professional service organizations are managing more than 275 major integration projects for over 80 legal entities in 80 different countries. The integration process, under the direction of the Companys senior management team, continues to advance. The Company has made substantial progress in developing global combined product strategies, in integrating the Companys U.S. sales and European business organizations, and in melding essential activities as diverse as global accounting principles and E mail systems. During the year, the Company recorded $79.6 million (pre tax) of acquisition and integration costs for contract terminations, professional fees, employee severance, retention pay, employee relocation costs and other expenses. In 2004, the Company expects to incur another $128.0 million for similar costs and expenses as integration progresses. The Companys operating results in the fourth quarter, the first quarter for which it reported combined results, indicated that the acquisition of Centerpulse was accretive to our shareholders, excluding acquisition and integration expenses, in process R&D write off and inventory step up. The Companys combined gross margin, in the fourth quarter, including an inventory step up charge of $42.7 million, was 68.1 percent directly related to geographic and product mix, price and strong manufacturing performance. The Company believes that its reported gross margin for the fourth quarter, which reflects the combination with Centerpulse and the consequently higher European revenue content, remains strong. Other important financial metrics include the Companys level of spending on research and development and its selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. The Company expects over the next couple of years to continue to invest in research and development at almost 6 percent of sales, as investments in spine, biologics and new technology increase. In managements view, the Companys selling, general and administrative expenses are well managed, closing out the fourth quarter at 40.9 percent of revenue. Despite the strong operating performance in the fourth quarter, the Company expects to realize approximately $50 million in sales dis synergies in 2004. The Company believes it is possible, given the complexity of the Centerpulse combination, that its reconstructive revenue growth in Europe, for example, may lag the European reconstructive market as the Company works through integration challenges in key markets such as France, Italy and Germany. Economic and Industry Wide Factors Relevant to the Company. On a worldwide basis, price improvement has remained firm at 3 4 percent in the last two years. The Company realized better than expected growth in average 20 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K selling prices at 4 percent in its most recent quarter in the Americas, the Companys largest operating segment. Although the industry has experienced steady growth in price in the last few years, the Company expects price growth to moderate in the near term and settle in at rates of 2 3 percent for 2004. Pressure from healthcare cost containment efforts may affect prices in markets where health care spending grows at a rate higher than the local economy. Even though the clinical benefits of joint replacement products and fixation devices are well documented, the orthopaedic industry could be subject to such efforts by various consumers of healthcare in different parts of the world. In Japan, as an example, where hospital reimbursement prices for medical devices are set by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, the Company expects pricing to decline 4 6 percent in mid to late 2004 as compared with the more traditional 2 4 percent decline experienced in prior bi annual price adjustments. Another important factor affecting the industry is global demand for orthopaedic devices. Orthopaedic procedure volume on a worldwide basis continues to rise at mid to high single digit rates driven by an aging global population, proven clinical benefits, new material technologies, advances in surgical techniques (such as our MIS Procedures and Technologies) and more active lifestyles, among other factors. Adoption rates for new technologies are another key indicator of industry performance. In the Companys business, revenue has grown with the introduction of new products such as Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners which accounted for 11 percent of the Companys total Liner sales in its first year of introduction and now comprises over 90 percent of the Companys Liner sales. The Centerpulse companion product Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene was up 47 percent in the fourth quarter. Crosslinked polyethylene products generally demand a higher price than standard Liners due to anticipated improvement in wear characteristics, as demonstrated in laboratory tests. In 2002, the Company introduced Prolong Crosslinked Polyethylene for the knee, which is also sold at a premium to standard articulating surfaces. In the fourth quarter, Prolong represented approximately 42 percent of all cruciate retaining articulating surface product sales and 14 percent of all articulating surfaces. While the price premium is significant on this product, the Company believes its ultimate impact of resistance to delamination has potentially far ranging medical and economic benefits. Adoption rates for the Companys new products associated with Crosslinked Polyethylene, MIS Procedures and Technologies, Trabecular Metal, Knee and Hip Revision products, Interpositional Knee devices, and new trauma, spine and dental devices will continue to affect the Companys operating performance. In recognition of the importance of the successful introduction of new technologies, Zimmer has developed a full time department called Health Technology Assessment and Reimbursement. This department has supported the collection and analysis of clinical data to determine the economic effects of certain surgical procedures and the use of the Companys products. Another important factor affecting operating performance is foreign currency fluctuations. With a significant portion of the Companys revenue derived from sales of its products outside of the United States, revenues and operating results are affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. A weakening U.S. dollar throughout 2003 contributed to the growth in revenue reported in the year ended December 31, 2003, adding four percent of the 20 percent reported revenue growth, excluding Centerpulse product revenue. The Company addresses currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and under appropriate circumstances and subject to proper authorization, through the use of derivative financial instruments solely for hedging purposes. The use of derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes is prohibited. An evolving trend which may affect the industry and the Companys operating performance in the future is connected with how the industry markets its products. Industry players have recently turned to direct to consumer (DTC) advertising and promotion as a means of promoting new products and technologies. As this development is in its beginning stages, it is not possible to predict how this may affect operating performance, if at all, in the future. The Company has engaged in relatively low cost DTC campaigns in connection with the launch of its NexGen LPS Flex Knee and to publicly reach out to patients while working with surgeons to introduce MIS Technologies and Procedures. The Company has made use of the Zimmer owned web site, PaceWithLife.com, which in 2003 resulted in 38,000 Find a Doc requests and almost 10,000 marketing packets mailed. And the Companys MIS Adword campaigns had more than 30,000 click thrus on nearly one million impressions. The Companys six month national public relations campaign in 2003 completed the year with almost 170 placements and reached audiences of close to 15 million people. While certain competitors are now engaged in more expensive national advertising, the Company is currently satisfied with the returns it has experienced with its low cost DTC campaigns. Lastly, among the many factors that affect operating performance within the industry is the development and protection of intellectual property. In 2003, the Company was granted a patent by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for the Zimmer MIS 2 Incision Hip Replacement Procedure. The patent includes 17 approved claims. In addition to the issued patent, five more Zimmer MIS 2 Incision Hip Procedure patents are pending with a total of 122 additional claims identified relating to the surgical technique and instrumentation. Similarly, and equally important, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued patents for the Companys Transformational Technology MIS Hip Fracture Fixation System with 22 product and procedure claims approved and five patents and 239 claims outstanding. Furthermore, the Company has seven patents pending related to its unique MIS Quad Sparing or QS Total Knee Procedure with a total of 395 claims covering novel aspects of the procedure and instrumentation, as well as new implant designs. The Company believes there is significant potential 21 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K value in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office recognizing that the Company has developed something sufficiently unique to deserve a patent. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 The following table presents the components of the year over year percentage changes in net sales by geographic segment: Zimmer Standalone Impact of Volume/ Foreign Sub Centerpulse Net Mix Price Exchange Total Acquisition Change Americas 15 % 4 % % 19 % 11 % 30 % Europe 19 2 17 38 77 115 Asia Pacific 4 1 9 14 7 21 Consolidated 13 3 4 20 19 39 Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased 39 percent to $1,901.0 million. Sales growth was driven by strong demand for the Companys reconstructive implants and additional sales from the October 2, 2003 Centerpulse acquisition. The 39 percent increase was comprised of a 20 percent increase in Zimmer standalone sales and a 19 percent increase due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Zimmer standalone sales as used herein refers to sales for the period less sales from acquired Centerpulse businesses. Favorable demographics, including an aging population and a continued shift to premium priced products, contributed to the favorable volume and mix growth. Higher average selling prices were realized in all three geographic segments. The continued weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Japanese yen were the main contributors to the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales. Net sales in the Americas for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased 30 percent to $1,208.3 million. Sales growth was driven by strong demand for the Companys reconstructive implants and additional sales from the Centerpulse acquisition. The 30 percent increase was comprised of a 19 percent increase in Zimmer standalone sales plus an 11 percent increase due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Net sales of reconstructive implants increased 33 percent to $941.4 million, 22 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales and 11 percent related to the Centerpulse acquisition. Knee sales increased 32 percent to $523.6 million, 24 percent related to increased Zimmer standalone sales and 8 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Hip sales increased 27 percent to $365.6 million, 21 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales and 6 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Knee sales growth was led by the NexGen Legacy Knee Posterior Stabilized product line, including the LPS Flex Knee, the NexGen Trabecular Metal Technology tibial components, the NexGen CR Knee with Prolong Crosslinked Polyethylene and the NexGen Rotating Hinge Knee. Hip sales growth was driven by the continued conversion to porous stems including significant growth of the VerSys Hip System Fiber Metal Taper stem, which is often used in MIS hip replacement procedures; Trabecular Metal acetabular cups; and increased sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Net sales in Europe for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased 115 percent to $366.0 million. Sales growth was driven by additional sales from the Centerpulse acquisition and strong demand for the Companys reconstructive implants. The 115 percent increase was comprised of a 77 percent increase due to the Centerpulse acquisition and a 38 percent increase in Zimmer standalone sales. Net sales of reconstructive implants increased 119 percent to $329.8 million, 81 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition and 38 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 20 percent constant currency). Constant currency as used herein refers to sales growth measurements computed by eliminating the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates between periods. Knee sales increased 72 percent to $162.8 million, 37 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition and 35 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 17 percent constant currency). Hip sales increased 196 percent to $151.7 million, 152 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition and 44 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 27 percent constant currency). Knee sales were driven by strong sales of the NexGen Legacy system of knee prostheses, the NexGen CR Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal components and the NexGen Rotating Hinge Knee. Hip sales were driven by strong sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, VerSys porous stems and Trabecular Metal technology cups. Net sales in Asia Pacific for the year ended December 31, 2003 increased 21 percent to $326.7 million. Sales growth was driven by strong demand for the Companys reconstructive implants and additional sales from the Centerpulse acquisition. The 21 percent increase was comprised of a 14 percent increase in Zimmer standalone sales and a 7 percent increase due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Net sales of reconstructive implants increased 25 percent to $249.8 million, 14 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 5 percent constant currency) and 11 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Knee sales increased 21 percent to $114.2 million, 16 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 6 percent constant currency) and 5 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Hip sales increased 25 percent to $128.2 million, 13 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 4 percent constant currency) and 12 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Knee sales were driven by the NexGen LPS Flex Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Technology tibial components and the NexGen CR Knee. Hip sales were driven primarily by the continued conversion to porous stems and sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. 22 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K The following table presents the components of the year over year percentage changes in net sales by product category: Zimmer Standalone Impact of Volume/ Foreign Sub Centerpulse Net Mix Price Exchange Total Acquisition Change Reconstructive implants 16% 3% 4% 23% 20% 43% Trauma 4 3 3 10 3 13 Spine(1) N/A N/A Orthopaedic surgical products 5 2 3 10 10 Consolidated 13 3 4 20 19 39 Overall, worldwide reconstructive implant sales increased 43 percent to $1,521.0 million. The 43 percent increase was comprised of a 23 percent increase in Zimmer standalone sales and a 20 percent increase due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Knee sales increased 37 percent to $800.5 million, 24 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 20 percent constant currency) and 13 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Knee sales were led by the NexGen Legacy Knee Posterior Stabilized product line including the LPS Flex Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal tibial components and the NexGen CR Knee with Prolong Crosslinked Polyethylene. Hip sales increased 46 percent to $645.6 million, 24 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition and 22 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 17 percent constant currency). Hip sales were driven by continued conversion to porous stems, Trabecular Metal acetabular cups, and increased sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Dental sales were $29.8 million, reflecting solid growth in both standard and tapered Swiss Plus design implants. Trauma sales increased 13 percent to $151.6 million, 10 percent due to increased Zimmer standalone sales (increased 7 percent constant currency) and 3 percent due to the Centerpulse acquisition. Trauma sales were led by sales of the Zimmer Periarticular Plating System. Spine sales were $33.6 million due to sales from Centerpulse. Orthopaedic surgical product sales increased 10 percent (7 percent constant currency) to $194.8 million, primarily driven by the continued growth of the OrthoPAT Orthopedic Perioperative Autotransfusion System. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 72.8 percent in 2003 compared to 74.9 percent in 2002. Gross profit for 2003 was reduced $42.7 million, or 2.2 percent of net sales, as a result of an inventory step up charge recognized in connection with the Centerpulse acquisition. Sales and gross profit from Centerpulse also reduced reported gross margins as Centerpulse has a greater percentage of sales based in Europe, where gross margins are historically lower than the U.S. and Japan. Increased Zimmer standalone average selling prices in all geographic segments, the continued conversion from cemented implants to higher margin porous implants and the ongoing efforts to reduce manufacturing costs through automation, in sourcing and process improvements had positive impacts on gross profit. The Companys operating plans annually call for reductions in unit manufacturing cost of its products as a direct result of a number of factors, including but not limited to, increased volume, improvements in material technology, replacement of used machinery and equipment with higher speed equipment, changes in the configuration of manufacturing cells designed to increase throughput, labor automation as well as in sourcing. Focus on inventory cost reduction is a strategic imperative. The Company will continue to direct efforts on driving down costs of products sold, general and administrative expenses and holding costs associated with working capital. Research and development as a percentage of net sales was 5.6 percent in 2003 compared to 5.9 percent in 2002, as research and development expenses increased 31 percent from the prior year compared to a 39 percent increase in sales. Research and development expense increased to $105.8 million from $80.7 million reflecting research and development expenses from Centerpulse and increased spending on active projects focused on areas of strategic significance, including MIS Technologies, innovative materials such as Trabecular Metal and Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene, lifestyle designs, revision implants and biological solutions. The Company has strategically targeted R&D spending to be at the high end of what management believes to be an average of 4 6 percent for the industry. Maintaining a robust product development pipeline has enabled Zimmer to achieve significant contributions in revenue from new products, which management defines as products introduced within the prior 36 month period. For example, in the fourth quarter, new product revenue, excluding Centerpulse, represented 18.9 percent of sales, at the high end of the Companys stated quarterly and annual goal of 15 20 percent, in place since 1999. Management expects over the next year or two to continue to invest in R&D at almost 6 percent of sales on a higher revenue base as investments in spine, biologics and new technology increase. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) as a percentage of net sales were 38.8 percent in 2003 compared to 39.8 percent (39.4 percent assuming the change in accounting principle for instruments is applied retroactively) in 2002. Low cost inflation accompanied with double digit revenue growth has driven the overall expense ratio lower for the year. Detailed planning, monitoring and control over these expenses have also contributed to the improvement. While well managed, the Company has introduced programs and activities in 2003 that involve significant investments, which, in part, are reflected in SG&A. As an example, the Zimmer Institute has seen very active use in 2003. The Zimmer Institute, which is used for surgeon training, product development activities such as prototype evaluations and product and instrument training for independent field sales representatives, provided training for over 500 surgeons, physician assistants and nurses on the MIS 2 Incision Hip Replacement Procedure and the (1) Spine is a new product category as a result of the Centerpulse acquisition. 23 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K MIS Quad Sparing Total Knee Procedure over the course of 2003. The cost of training is borne by the Company and reported in SG&A. The acquisition of Centerpulse resulted in higher SG&A as a percentage of sales in the fourth quarter. The change in accounting principle for instruments favorably impacted SG&A by $26.8 million, or 1.4 percent of net sales, in 2003. Acquisition and integration expenses related to the acquisition of Centerpulse and InCentive were $79.6 million, including $36.1 million of sales agent and lease contract termination expenses, $15.4 million of integration consulting expenses, $10.2 million of employee severance and retention expenses, $6.4 million of professional fees, $5.3 million of costs for meetings and activities associated with the initial cross training of employees and independent sales representatives, $2.4 million of investment banking fees incurred by Centerpulse, $2.0 million of personnel expenses and travel for full time integration team members, $0.6 million of employee relocation expenses and $1.2 million of other miscellaneous acquisition and integration expenses. Operating profit increased 12 percent to $450.7 million. Operating profit growth was driven by strong organic sales growth, operating profit contributed by Centerpulse and effectively controlled operating expenses. In addition, the change in accounting principle for instruments favorably impacted operating profit by $26.8 million. These favorable items were offset by Centerpulse inventory step up of $42.7 million, Centerpulse in process research and development write offs of $11.2 million and Centerpulse acquisition and integration expenses of $79.6 million. The Companys effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2003 was 33.6 percent, compared to 33.7 percent in 2002. The decrease from 33.7 percent to 33.6 percent was due to expanded operations in Puerto Rico and the implementation of certain business strategies in 2002 which resulted in reducing taxes in certain jurisdictions and increased credits, offset by non deductible in process research and development charges. Net earnings increased 34 percent to $346.3 million from $257.8 million in 2002, driven by strong organic sales growth, earnings contributed by Centerpulse, leveraged operating expenses and the one time, non cash cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for instruments of $55.1 million (net of tax), offset by Centerpulse inventory step up of $28.0 million (net of tax), Centerpulse in process research and development write offs of $11.2 million and Centerpulse acquisition and integration expenses of $51.1 million (net of tax). Basic and diluted earnings per share increased 26 percent and 25 percent to $1.67 and $1.64, respectively, from $1.33 and $1.31 in 2002. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2002, increased 16 percent. Sales growth reflected strong demand for the Companys reconstructive implants, including the NexGen line of knee products and the VerSys Hip System. New products launched within the last 36 months represented 18 percent of total sales, including the successful recent launches of key products including the Prolong Crosslinked Polyethylene for NexGen CR Knee, the NexGen Trabecular Metal Monoblock tibials, the NexGen Rotating Hinge Knee and the Trabecular Metal acetabular cups. Favorable demographics helped drive increased surgical procedures in all regions, with the Companys largest operating segment, the Americas, as well as Europe, leading the overall outstanding results. The increase was comprised of a 12 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales and a 4 percent increase due to higher average selling prices. Net sales in the Americas increased 18 percent for the year to $932.9 million compared to 2001. This increase was comprised of a 13 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales, together with a 5 percent increase due to higher average selling prices. Sales of reconstructive implants increased by 21 percent with strong sales in all categories. Knee sales increased 24 percent led by growth in sales of NexGen Legacy Knee Posterior Stabilized products, NexGen LPS Flex Knee, NexGen CR Knee components incorporating Prolong Crosslinked Polyethylene, the M/G Unicompartmental Knee, which features MIS Instrumentation and the recently launched NexGen Trabecular Metal tibial components. Hip sales increased 17 percent driven by continued conver sion to porous stems, Trabecular Metal acetabular cups, and increased sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Trauma product sales increased 10 percent for the year in large part due to increased sales of the Zimmer Periarticular Plating System and the ZPS. Net sales in Asia Pacific increased 6 percent (increased 8 percent constant currency) for the year to $269.6 million. This increase was comprised of a 7 percent increase due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales and 1 percent increase due to higher average selling prices, offset by a 2 percent decrease due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Knee sales increased 9 percent (increased 11 percent constant currency) reflecting continued strong growth in the NexGen LPS Flex Knee. Hip sales increased 11 percent (increased 14 percent constant currency) driven primarily by the continued conversion to porous stems and sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Trauma product sales decreased 13 percent (decreased 10 percent constant currency) reflecting a decline in M/DN Intramedullary Fixation nails and compression hip screw sales, primarily in Japan. Net sales in Europe increased 28 percent (increased 23 percent constant currency) to $169.9 million. The strong sales reflected high demand on reconstructive implants. Eastern Europe, Finland, France, Scandinavia, Switzerland and the United Kingdom all achieved higher than 30 percent growth in reconstructive implant sales. This increase was comprised of 20 percent due to incremental volume and changes in the mix of product sales, a 3 percent increase due to higher average selling prices and a 5 percent increase due 24 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Knee sales increased 27 percent (increased 22 percent constant currency) driven by strong sales of the NexGen Legacy system of knee prostheses, including the LPS Flex Knee, the M/G Unicompartmental Knee system with MIS Instrumentation, and the recently launched NexGen Rotating Hinge Knee. Hip sales increased 33 percent (increased 28 percent constant currency) driven by strong sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, VerSys porous stems, supported by the ZMR Revision Hip System and Trabecular Metal acetabular cups. Overall, worldwide reconstructive implant sales increased 20 percent (increased 20 percent constant currency) to $1,061.7 million. Knee sales increased by 22 percent (increased 21 percent constant currency) to $586.1 million, led by the NexGen Legacy Knee Posterior Stabilized product line including the LPS Flex Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal tibial components, the NexGen CR Knee with Prolong Crosslinked Polyethylene, and the M/G Unicompartmental Knee system with MIS Instrumentation. Hip sales increased 17 percent (increased 17 percent constant currency) to $441.1 million driven by continued conversion to porous stems, Trabecular Metal acetabular cups, and increased sales of Trilogy Acetabular System cups incorporating Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners. Longevity Liner sales comprised 85 percent of primary hip liner sales in 2002. Trauma sales increased 4 percent (increased 5 percent constant currency) to $133.8 million, led by sales of the Zimmer Periarticular Plating System. Orthopaedic surgical product sales increased by 8 percent (increased 9 percent constant currency) to $176.9 million, led by the continued growth of the OrthoPAT Orthopedic Perioperative Autotransfusion System. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 74.9 percent in 2002 compared to 72.7 percent in 2001, which included separation costs of $11.9 million, or 1.2 percent of sales. The increase was attributable to increased average selling prices realized in all segments, the continued conversion from cemented hip implants to higher margin porous products, increased penetration of Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, higher sales of revision implants and various manufacturing improvements. The Company upgraded its automated foundry process for casting knee femorals, hip stems and cups. An increased number of products were moved to robotic polishing, as well as, additional porous knee femorals converted to the fiber metal laser welding process. Several products previously purchased from outside suppliers were moved in house for production. Investments in high speed machining and new tooling technologies made improvements in reducing both product cycle times and scrap. Lastly, standardization of the Companys manufacturing processes resulted in improvement in efficiency. Research and development as a percentage of net sales was 5.9 percent in 2002 compared to 6.1 percent in 2001, which included separation costs of $3.2 million. Increases in research and development costs outpaced sales growth, reflecting investments in active and new projects, and is consistent with the Companys stated target to be at the higher end of the industry average, or approximately 6 percent of sales. The Company has many active projects underway focused on areas of strategic significance, including MIS Technologies and the establishment of the Zimmer Institute, innovative materials such as Trabecular Metal and Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene, lifestyle designs, revision implants and biotechnology. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales were 39.8 percent in 2002 compared to 45.6 percent in 2001, which included separation costs of $54.9 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1.7 percent to $546.0 million in 2002 from $537.1 million, including separation costs of $54.9 million, or 4.7 percent of sales, in 2001. The expense ratio reflects lower selling expenses as a result of lower costs associated with the Companys U.S. distributor network, sales force and dealer reorganization in Japan, and improved efficiency in the utilization of instruments (more frequent use of instruments resulted in fewer placements and less expense). This was partially offset by approximately $2 million of consulting costs associated with tax services and analysis of various external development opportunities, continued investments in various strategic initiatives including MIS Technologies, DTC advertising, training and medical education, and higher insurance premiums. Operating profit increased 62 percent in 2002 to $400.9 million from $248.3 million in 2001 due to strong sales growth and controlled increases in operating expenses at rates below sales growth. The effective tax rate on earnings before taxes decreased to 33.7 percent in 2002 compared to 37.8 percent in 2001. The decrease was due to expanded operations in Puerto Rico, increased R&D credits, higher foreign tax credits and the implementation of certain business strategies in 2002 which resulted in reducing taxes in certain jurisdictions and increased credits. Net earnings increased 72 percent to $257.8 million from $149.8 million in 2001, due to strong sales growth and improved gross profit, lower rate of increase in selling, general and administrative expenses than sales and the incurrence of $70.0 million ($49.9 million, net of tax) of separation costs in 2001. Basic and diluted earnings per share increased 73 percent and 70 percent to $1.33 and $1.31, respectively, from $0.77 in 2001. OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT Company management evaluates operating segment performance based upon segment operating profit exclusive of operating expenses pertaining to global operations and corporate expenses, acquisition and integration expenses, inventory step up, in process research and development write offs and separation costs from the Companys former parent. For more information regarding the Companys segments, see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. 25 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K The following table sets forth the operating profit margin by segment for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: Percent of net sales Year Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Americas 51.2% 48.3% 47.4% Europe 26.3 24.4 19.5 Asia Pacific 45.3 46.1 45.4 Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Operating profit for the Americas as a percentage of net sales increased due to improved gross margins driven by higher average selling prices and increased sales of higher margin products, leveraged operating expenses and the favorable impact of the change in accounting principle for instruments. The change in accounting principle for instruments increased operating profit by 1.7 percentage points. With respect to sales growth, increased Zimmer standalone average selling prices of 4 percent in 2003 and favorable effects of volume and mix, 15 percent increase in 2003, represent the most significant factors in improved operating profit in the Americas. As reconstructive implant sales grow at a higher rate than trauma and orthopaedic surgical products, operating profit margins generally tend to improve since reconstructive product sales generally earn higher gross margins. This was the case in 2003, with Zimmer standalone reconstructive implant sales growth of 22 percent as compared with total Zimmer standalone sales growth of 19 percent. In the fourth quarter, the Company reported operating profit as a percent of net sales of 50.4 percent for the Americas. Operating profit for Europe as a percentage of net sales increased due to improved gross profit margins driven by higher Zimmer standalone average selling prices and favorable product and country mix, leveraged operating expenses and the favorable impact of the change in accounting principle for instruments. The change in accounting for instruments increased operating profit by 1.4 percentage points. Increases in Zimmer standalone average selling prices in Europe of 2 percent in 2003 and the effect of volume and mix, 19 percent increase in 2003, were the key factors in improved operating profit. Also contributing to the improvement was significantly lower growth in operating expenses. In the fourth quarter, the Company reported operating profit as a percent of net sales of 24.7 percent for Europe. Operating profit for Asia Pacific as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to less favorable rates on hedge contracts during the year compared to the prior year, partially offset by increased Zimmer standalone average selling prices and leveraged operating expenses. The change in accounting for instruments had an immaterial effect on operating profit for Asia Pacific. Increases in Zimmer standalone average selling prices in Asia Pacific of 1 percent and volume and mix improvements of 4 percent in 2003 contributed modest improvement but was offset by higher cost of products sold. Included in cost of product sold are losses on foreign exchange hedge contracts, which increased in 2003 relative to 2002. In the fourth quarter, the Company reported operating profit as a percent of net sales of 47.1 percent for Asia Pacific. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Operating profit for the Americas as a percentage of net sales increased to 48.3 percent in 2002 from 47.4 percent in 2001, reflecting improved gross profit margins due to higher average selling prices and increased sales of higher margin products, and lower selling expenses as a percent of sales due to lower costs associated with the U.S. distributor network. The Americas continued to invest in strategic initiatives such as MIS Technologies, field sales personnel, medical education programs and new product launches. Operating profit for Asia Pacific as a percentage of net sales increased to 46.1 percent in 2002 from 45.4 percent in 2001. This increase reflects lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales in Japan as a result of a sales force and dealer reorganization, partially offset by lower gross profit margins as a result of lower yen hedge gains compared to 2001. Operating profit for Europe as a percentage of net sales increased to 24.4 percent in 2002 from 19.5 percent in 2001, due to improved gross profit margins as a result of higher average selling prices and favorable product and country mix, the leveraging of sales growth in Europe on controlled increases in operating expenses and improved efficiency in the utilization of instruments (more frequent use of instruments resulted in fewer placements and less expense). LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash flows provided by operations were $494.8 million in 2003, compared with $220.2 million in 2002. The principal source of cash was net earnings before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $291.2 million. Non cash expenses for the period included depreciation and amortization expense of $103.3 million, Centerpulse inventory step up of $42.7 million and Centerpulse in process research and development write offs of $11.2 million. Working capital management, together with the collection of $20.0 million of cash related to Centerpulse tax loss carryforwards, contributed $80.4 million to operating cash flow. Working capital continues to be a key management focus. At December 31, 2003, the Company had 62 days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable, unfavorable to the prior year by 10 days. Acquired Centerpulse businesses had a negative impact of 10 days, due to Centerpulses business mix which has a greater proportion of European revenue with payment terms generally longer than those in the U.S. At December 31, 2003, the Company had 232 days of inventory on hand compared to 247 days reported at the end of 2002. The reduction was principally due to improved inventory management and the acquired dental and spinal businesses carrying fewer days of inventory. 26 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,102.7 million in 2003 compared with $35.7 million in 2002. The increase was principally due to the Centerpulse and InCentive acquisitions, which included cash payments to former Centerpulse and InCentive shareholders of $1,187.1 million and cash payments for direct acquisition costs of $37.2 million, offset by cash acquired of $296.6 million. During June 2003, the Company acquired the TransFx External Fixation System product line from Immedica, Inc. for $14.8 million. In addition, the January 1, 2003 change in accounting principle for instruments resulted in the Company classifying instrument purchases as capital expenditures during 2003 versus being expensed in 2002. Cash payments for instruments were $113.6 million during 2003. Instrument purchases increased to support sales growth, new product launches and MIS procedure growth. Cash flows provided by financing activities during 2003 were impacted by the Companys $1,357 million borrowing on October 2, 2003 to finance the Centerpulse and InCentive acquisitions, refinance existing Company debt and debt assumed from Centerpulse, and pay certain acquisition closing costs. This initial borrowing was reduced by fourth quarter operating cash flows, including the collection of $20.0 million of cash related to Centerpulse tax loss carryforwards, cash received from the exercise of Company stock options and cash acquired from Centerpulse and InCentive. In connection with the Centerpulse and InCentive acquisitions, the Company entered into the following committed financing arrangements: (i) $400 million 364 day revolving credit facility, (ii) $800 million three year revolving credit facility and (iii) $550 million five year term loan facility, (collectively, the Senior Credit Facility). Available borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility at December 31, 2003, were approximately $548 million. Effective on the closing date of the acquisitions, the Company terminated its $600 million, committed, multi currency revolving senior credit facility. The Company and certain of its wholly owned foreign and domestic subsidiaries are the borrowers and its wholly owned domestic subsidiaries are the guarantors of the Senior Credit Facility. Borrowings may bear interest at the appropriate LIBOR based rate, or an alternative base rate, plus an applicable margin determined by reference to the Companys senior unsecured long term debt rating and the amounts drawn under the Senior Credit Facility. The Senior Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default for an unsecured financing arrangement. Financial covenants include a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. The Company is in compliance with all covenants under the Senior Credit Facility as of December 31, 2003. Commitments under the $400 million 364 day revolving credit facility and the $800 million three year revolving credit facility are subject to certain fees, including a facility and a utilization fee. The Company also has available uncommitted credit facilities totaling $35 million. The Company expects to incur Centerpulse integration expenses during 2004 of approximately $128.0 million. These expenses are expected to be paid out principally during 2004 with cash flows from operations and borrowings available under the Senior Credit Facility. On March 2, 2004, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Merger Agreement relating to the acquisition of Implex, a privately held orthopaedics company based in New Jersey, for cash. Each share of Implex stock will be converted into the right to receive cash having an aggregate value of approximately $108 million at closing and additional cash earn out payments that are contingent on the growth of Implex product sales through 2006. The net value transferred at closing will be approximately $89 million, which includes adjustments for debt repayment, certain payments previously made by Zimmer to Implex pursuant to their existing alliance arrangement, escrow and other items. The Company expects to finance the initial cash payment with borrowings available under its Senior Credit Facility. The Company expects to pay the contingent payments, if any, with cash flows from operations and borrowings available under its Senior Credit Facility. The Company had $77.5 million in cash and equivalents, $14.5 million in restricted cash and outstanding borrowings of $1,109.1 million as of December 31, 2003. The Company expects to pay off the remaining debt balance by the end of 2006 with cash provided from operations absent any cash requirements for significant acquisitions. The Company intends to maintain a capital structure that is consistent with an investment grade credit rating. As a result of the Centerpulse acquisition, on September 29, 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services raised its corporate credit and senior unsecured ratings on the Company to BBB from BBB . At December 31, 2003, Moodys corporate credit and senior unsecured ratings on the Company were Baa3. Management believes that cash flows from operations, together with available borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility, will be sufficient to meet the Companys working capital, capital expenditure and debt service needs. should investment opportunities arise, the Company believes that its earnings, balance sheet and cash flows will allow the Company to obtain additional capital, if necessary. 27 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The Company has entered into contracts with various third parties in the normal course of business which will require future payments. The following table illustrates the Companys contractual obligations: Less Than 1 3 4 5 After Contractual Obligations Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Long term debt $ 1,103.0 $ 100.0 $ 655.3 $ 347.7 $ Capital leases 6.1 1.3 3.7 1.1 Operating leases 77.2 23.0 32.3 9.2 12.7 Purchase Obligations 13.3 13.3 Other long term liabilities 352.6 139.9 42.0 170.7 Total contractual obligations $ 1,552.2 $ 137.6 $ 831.2 $ 400.0 $ 183.4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The financial results of the Company are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods. Significant accounting policies which require managements judgment are discussed below. Excess Inventory and Instruments The Company must determine as of each balance sheet date how much, if any, of its inventory may ultimately prove to be unsaleable or unsaleable at its carrying cost. Similarly, the Company must also determine if instruments on hand will be put to productive use or remain undeployed as a result of excess supply. Reserves are established to effectively adjust inventory and instruments to net realizable value. To determine the appropriate level of reserves, the Company evaluates current stock levels in relation to historical and expected patterns of demand for all of its products and instrument systems and components. The basis for the determination is generally the same for all inventory and instrument items and categories except for work in progress inventory, which is recorded at cost. Obsolete or discontinued items are generally destroyed and completely written off. Management evaluates the need for changes to valuation reserves based on market conditions, competitive offerings and other factors on a regular basis. Centerpulse historically applied a similar conceptual framework in estimating market value of excess inventory and instruments under International Financial Reporting Standards and U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Within that framework, Zimmer and Centerpulse differed however, in certain respects, to their approaches to such estimation. Following the acquisition, the Company determined that a consistent approach is necessary to maintaining effective control over financial reporting. Consideration was given to both approaches and the Company established a common estimation technique taking both prior approaches into account. This change in estimate resulted in a charge to earnings of $3.0 million after tax in the fourth quarter. Such change is not considered material to the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Income Taxes The Company estimates income tax expense and income tax liabilities and assets by taxable jurisdiction. Realization of deferred tax assets in each taxable jurisdiction is dependent on the Companys ability to generate future taxable income sufficient to realize the benefits. The Company evaluates deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and provides valuation allowances if it is determined to be more likely than not that the deferred tax benefit will not be realized. Federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the U.S. The Company operates within numerous taxing jurisdictions. The Company is subject to regulatory review or audit in virtually all of those jurisdictions and those reviews and audits may require extended periods of time to resolve. The Company makes use of all available information and makes reasoned judgments regarding matters requiring interpretation in establishing tax expense, liabilities and reserves. The Company believes adequate provisions exist for income taxes for all periods and jurisdictions subject to review or audit. Commitments and Contingencies Accruals for product liability and other claims are established with internal and external counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for claims, related fees and for claims incurred but not reported. An actuarial model is used by the Company to assist management in determining an appropriate level of accruals for product liability claims. Historical patterns of claim loss development over time are statistically analyzed to arrive at factors which are then applied to loss estimates in the actuarial model. The amounts established represent managements best estimate of the ultimate costs that it will incur under the various contingencies. 28 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K SEPARATION FROM BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB The Company was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of Bristol Myers Squibb on January 12, 2001. On July 25, 2001, Bristol Myers Squibb transferred the assets and liabilities of its orthopaedic business to the Company. On August 6, 2001, Bristol Myers Squibb distributed all of the shares of Company common stock to Bristol Myers Squibb stockholders in the form of a dividend of one share of Company common stock, and the associated preferred stock purchase right, for every 10 shares of Bristol Myers Squibb common stock (the Distribution). In addition, the Company assumed all obligations under a $600 million credit facility established by the Company and its former parent with then outstanding borrowings of $290 million. With additional borrowings under the credit facility, the Company repaid amounts due to its former parent of approximately $90 million, and finally, the Company assumed an additional $22 million of borrowings under the credit facility for separation costs. In addition, the Company recognized certain liabilities and obligations for pension, post retirement, long term disability and U.S. sales agent benefits. Recognition of these liabilities and obligations and other adjustments were reflected in the remaining net investment in the Company by its former parent of $14.1 million as of the Distribution and subsequently reclassified to opening retained earnings. The Distribution qualified as a tax free transaction under Section 355 and 368 (a) (1) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as more fully described in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein under Item 8. In 2001, the Company incurred $70.0 million ($49.9 million net of taxes) in costs, fees and expenses relating to the separation from Bristol Myers Squibb and the related distribution of Company common stock to Bristol Myers Squibb stockholders which was partially funded by additional borrowings under the credit facility. The costs, fees and expenses were primarily for retention bonuses, legal separation matters, professional expenses and costs of producing, printing, mailing and distributing the information statement relating to the Distribution. Except for separation costs and the ongoing interest cost associated with debt assumed or incurred as of the Distribution, the Company does not currently anticipate that operating costs resulting from the separation from its former parent will materially impact its cost structure as reflected in its historical consolidated results. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Information about recent accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included herein under Item 8. 29 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to certain market risks as part of its ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company manages its exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivative financial instruments are used solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK The Company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its transactions and net assets denominated in Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen, Euro, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars. The Company manages the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows the Company to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. In order to reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major international financial institutions. These forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. The notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts, principally Japanese Yen, Euro, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars, entered into with third parties, at December 31, 2003 and 2002, were $506 million and $252 million, respectively. For all contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003, the Company has an obligation to purchase U.S. Dollars and sell Japanese Yen, Euro, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars at set maturity dates ranging from January 2004 through December 2005. The weighted average contract rates for 2004 and 2005 are Yen:USD 116 and 115, USD:Euro 1.06 and 1.11, Canadian Dollar:USD 1.41 and 1.43 and USD:Australian Dollar 0.64 and 0.62, respectively. The Company maintains written policies and procedures governing its risk management activities. The Companys policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. On this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. As part of its risk management program, the Company furthermore performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003, indicated that, if the U.S. Dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the Japanese Yen, Euro, Canadian Dollar and Australian Dollar, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $25.2 million, $21.9 million, $4.9 million and $4.9 million for the Yen, Euro, Canadian Dollar and Australian Dollar contracts, respectively. Any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. Consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject the Company to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. The Company had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,775 million and $135 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily in Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen and Euro. Approximately $1,333 million of the net asset exposure at December 31, 2003 relates to goodwill and intangible assets recorded in the Europe and Asia Pacific geographic segments as a result of the Exchange Offers. COMMODITY PRICE RISK The Company purchases raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. The Company enters into 12 to 24 month supply contracts, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the impact of market fluctuation in prices. As part of the Companys risk management program, sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes are performed. A 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 30 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K INTEREST RATE RISK In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company manages its exposure to interest rate risks through its regular operations and financing activities. Presently, the Company invests its cash and equivalents in money market and investment grade short term debt instruments. The primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of its invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. Currently, the Company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk arises principally from the short term rates associated with its credit facilities. The Company is subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed Senior Credit Facility and its uncommitted credit facilities. Presently, all of its debt outstanding bears interest at short term rates. The Company currently does not hedge its interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. Based upon the Companys overall interest rate exposure as of December 31, 2003, a change of 10 percent in interest rates (or 23 basis points), assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would result in an annual increase of interest expense of approximately $2.5 million. However, due to the uncertainty of the actions that would be taken and their possible effects, this analysis assumes no such action, nor management actions to mitigate interest rate changes. Further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Presently, the Company intends to utilize cash flow to reduce outstanding borrowings. CREDIT RISK Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. The Company places its investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. The Company does not believe it is exposed to any significant credit risk on its cash and equivalents and investments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the financial institutions with which it conducts business. However, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed the obligation of the Company. The Company also minimizes exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Credit risk is managed through the monitoring of counterparty financial condition and by the use of standard credit guidelines. The Company does not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. However, essentially all of the Companys trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the U.S. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. Repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. Exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and the Company believes that reserves for losses are adequate. There is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 31 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 2003 FORM 10 K 
 
