Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING Our primary customers include musculoskeletal surgeons, neurosurgeons, oral surgeons, dentists, hospitals, distributors, healthcare dealers and, in their capacity as agents, healthcare purchasing organizations or buying groups. These customers range from large multinational enterprises to independent surgeons. We have operations in more than 24 countries and market products in more than 100 countries, with corporate headquarters in Warsaw, Indiana, and more than 100 manufacturing, distribution and warehousing and or office facilities worldwide. We manage our operations through three major geographic segments the Americas, which is comprised principally of the United States and includes other North, Central and South American markets; Europe, which is comprised principally of Europe and includes the Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific, which is comprised primarily of Japan and includes other Asian and Pacific markets. Detailed financial and other information regarding our reportable geographic segments can be found in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this report under Item 8. We market and sell products through three principal channels: 1) direct to health care institutions, such as hospitals, or direct channel accounts, 2) through stocking distributors and, in the Asia Pacific region, healthcare dealers, and 3) directly to dental practices and dental laboratories. With direct channel accounts, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers. With sales to stocking distributors, healthcare dealers, dental practices and dental laboratories, title to product passes generally upon shipment. Direct channel accounts represented more than 80 percent of our net sales in 2006. No individual direct channel account, stocking distributor, healthcare dealer, dental practice or dental laboratory accounted for more than 1 percent of our net sales for 2006. We stock inventory in our warehouse facilities and retain title to consigned inventory in sufficient quantities so that products are available when needed for surgical procedures. Safety stock levels are determined based on a number of factors, including demand, manufacturing lead times and quantities required to maintain service levels. We also carry 3 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT trade accounts receivable balances based on credit terms that are generally consistent with local market practices. We utilize a network of sales associates, sales managers and support personnel, most of whom are employed by independent distributors and sales agencies. We invest a significant amount of time and expense in training sales associates in such areas as product features and benefits, how to use specific products and how to best inform surgeons of product features and uses. Sales force representatives rely heavily on strong technical selling skills, medical education and the ability to provide technical support for surgeons. In response to the different healthcare systems throughout the world, our sales and marketing strategies and organizational structures differ by region. We utilize a global approach to sales force training, marketing and medical education to provide consistent, high quality service. Additionally, we keep current with key surgical developments and other issues related to musculoskeletal surgeons and the medical procedures they perform, in part, by sponsoring medical education events. In 2006, we sponsored more than 1,800 medical education events and meetings with and among musculoskeletal surgeons around the world. Americas. The Americas is our largest geographic segment, accounting for $2,076.5 million, or 59 percent, of 2006 net sales, with the United States accounting for 95 percent of net sales in this region. The United States sales force consists of independent sales agents, most of whom sell products exclusively for Zimmer. Sales agents in the United States receive a commission on product sales and are responsible for many operating decisions and costs. Sales commissions are accrued at the time of sale. In this region, we contract with group purchasing organizations and managed care accounts and have promoted unit growth by offering volume discounts to customer health care institutions within a specified group. At negotiated thresholds within a contract buying period, price discounts increase. Generally, we are designated as one of several preferred purchasing sources for specified products, although members are not obligated to purchase our products. Contracts with group purchasing organizations generally have a term of three years with extensions as warranted. A majority of hospitals in the United States belong to at least one group purchasing organization. In 2006, individual hospital orders purchased through contractual arrangements with such group purchasing organizations accounted for approximately 58 percent of our net sales in the United States. Contractual sales were highest through Novation, LLC, Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P., and Health Trust Purchasing Group, representing 32 percent, 16 percent and 8 percent, respectively, of net sales in the United States. No individual end user, however, accounted for over 1 percent of our net sales, and the top ten end users accounted for approximately 4 percent of our aggregate net sales in the United States. In the Americas, we monitor and rank independent sales agents across a range of performance metrics. We evaluate and reward independent sales agents based on achieving certain sales targets and on maintaining efficient levels of working capital. We set expectations for efficient management of inventory and provide independent sales agents an incentive to aid in the collection of receivables. Europe. The European geographic segment accounted for $931.1 million, or 27 percent, of 2006 net sales, with France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom collectively accounting for more than 77 percent of net sales in the region. This segment also includes other key markets, including Benelux, Nordic, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our sales force in this region is comprised of independent distributors, commissioned agents, direct sales associates and sales support personnel. In Europe, we emphasize the advantages of our clinically proven, established designs and innovative solutions, such as minimally invasive surgical procedures and technologies and new and enhanced materials and surfaces. Asia Pacific. The Asia Pacific geographic segment accounted for $487.8 million, or 14 percent, of 2006 net sales, with Japan being the largest market within this segment, accounting for approximately 58 percent of the regions sales. This segment also includes key markets such as Australia, New Zealand, Korea, China, Taiwan, India, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. In Japan and most countries in the Asia Pacific region, we maintain a network of dealers, who act as order agents on behalf of hospitals in the region, and sales associates, who build and maintain relationships with musculoskeletal surgeons in their markets. These sales associates cover over 7,000 hospitals in the region. The knowledge and skills of our sales associates play a critical role in providing service, product information and support to surgeons. We intend to continue to sponsor medical education and training programs in the region relating to orthopaedic surgery. The key marketing and educational activities in the region center on minimally invasive surgical procedures and technologies, increased range of motion and improved patient outcomes. SEASONALITY Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, as many of our products are used in elective procedures, which typically decline during the summer months and holiday seasons. DISTRIBUTION We generally ship our orders via expedited courier. Our operations support local language labeling for shipments to the European Union member countries. We operate distribution facilities domestically in Warsaw, Indiana; Dover, Ohio; Statesville, North Carolina; Memphis, Tennessee; Carlsbad, California; and, internationally, in Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an understanding of our business. 4 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT PRODUCTS Our products include joint and dental reconstructive orthopaedic implants, spinal implants, trauma products, and related orthopaedic surgical products. Reconstructive orthopaedic implants restore joint function lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and elbows. Dental reconstructive implants restore function and aesthetics in patients that have lost teeth due to trauma or disease. Orthopaedic surgeons and neurosurgeons use spinal implants in the treatment of degenerative diseases, deformities and trauma. Trauma products are used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to support the bodys natural healing process. Our related orthopaedic surgical products include supplies and instruments designed to aid in orthopaedic surgical procedures and post operation rehabilitation. Information about product sales can be found in Item 7 of this report. Orthopaedic Reconstructive Implants Minimally Invasive Solutions Procedures and Technologies In 2006, we continued to expand our efforts to apply minimally invasive surgical techniques to orthopaedic surgery, which we refer to as Minimally Invasive Solutionstm (MIS) Procedures and Technologies. The principal goals of these MIS Technology efforts are to reduce the hardships of having a total joint replacement, such as the time a patient must spend in rehabilitation, pain reduction and lost time from work. We have used The Zimmer Institute, with its main facility located at our global headquarters, and satellite centers, to facilitate the training of over 6,200 surgeons on several MIS Procedures. In 2006, we trained nearly 2,000 surgeons through The Zimmer Institute network. We work directly with several global medical centers to evaluate and refine advanced minimally invasive knee and hip replacement procedures. We have 25 existing partnerships to provide surgeon education at The Zimmer Institute and its satellite locations. We continue to work with our global network of medical centers and leading surgeons to evaluate and refine our MIS procedures. As refinements occur, they are incorporated into our course curriculum. For example, in December 2006, we assembled a panel of experts in the Zimmer MIS 2 Incisiontm Total Hip Replacement Procedure in Warsaw, Indiana to discuss opportunities to further improve this already successful procedure. In the latter part of 2006, we introduced our MIS Anterior Supine Total Hip Replacement Procedure. This procedure can be performed using a traditional operating room table that decreases surgical time and capital costs and allows for more accurate assessment of leg length and joint stability. Throughout 2006, we continued to develop navigation systems, through the use of image guided surgical technology, to aid in the placement of instrumentation and implants where navigation is difficult due to the small incisions necessary in effectuating minimally invasive procedures. We trained nearly 50 surgeons in the use of electromagnetic Computer Assisted Surgery enabled knee replacement procedures. This technology continues to improve. We are focused on commercializing existing MIS Technique approaches and investigating new ways to apply MIS Technology principles to additional procedures and products. Knee Implants Total knee replacement surgeries typically include a femoral component, a patella (knee cap), a tibial tray and an articular surface (placed on the tibial tray). Knee replacement surgeries include first time, or primary, joint replacement procedures and revision procedures for the replacement, repair or enhancement of an implant or component from a previous procedure. Knee implants are designed to accommodate different levels of ligament stabilization of the joint. While some knee implant designs, called cruciate retaining (CR) designs, require the retention of the posterior cruciate ligament, other designs, called posterior stabilized (PS) designs, provide joint stability without the posterior cruciate ligament. There are also procedures for partial reconstruction of the knee, which treat limited knee degeneration and involve the replacement of only one side, or compartment, of the knee with a unicompartmental knee prosthesis. Our portfolio of MIS Techniques includes the MIS Mini Incision Total Knee Procedures and the MIS Quad Sparingtm Total Knee Replacement Procedure, with the incorporation of Computer Assisted Surgery enabled electromagnetic navigation capability. The MIS Mini Incision Total Knee Instruments feature smaller instruments which accommodate a smaller incision and less disruption of the surrounding soft tissues. The MIS Quad Sparing Total Knee Procedure features advanced instrument concepts which allow surgeons to perform the total knee arthroplasty through a 7 10 cm incision without cutting the patients muscles or tendons. We offer a wide range of products for specialized knee procedures, including the following: NexGen Complete Knee Solution. The NexGen Knee product line is a comprehensive system for knee replacement surgery which has had significant application in PS, CR and revision procedures. The NexGen Knee System offers joint stability and sizing that can be tailored to individual patient needs while providing surgeons with a unified system of interchangeable components. The NexGen Knee System provides surgeons with complete and versatile knee instrument options, including Zimmer MIS Quad Sparing and MIS Mini Incision Instruments, milling and multiple traditional saw blade cutting instrument systems. The breadth and versatility of the NexGen Knee System allows surgeons to change from one type of implant to another during surgery, according to the needs of the patient, and to support current surgical philosophies. 5 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT The NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Knee product line provides stability in the absence of the posterior cruciate ligament. The PS capabilities were augmented through the introduction of the NexGen Legacy Posterior Stabilized Flex Knee (the LPS Flex Knee), a high flexion implant that has the potential to accommodate knee flexion up to a 155 degree range of motion in some patients. The NexGen CR product line is designed to be used in conjunction with a functioning posterior cruciate ligament. The NexGen CR Flex Fixed Bearing Knee is designed with components to provide a greater range of motion for patients who require deep bending in their daily activities. The NexGen CR Flex Femoral Components allow the surgeon to adjust component sizing without removing additional bone. The NexGen Revision Knee product line consists of several different products that are designed to provide clinical solutions to surgeons for various revision situations, including a bone augmentation implant system made from our Trabecular Metal Technology material. These augments are designed to address significant bone loss in revision surgery. We introduced NexGen Knee Gender Solutionstm Femorals in 2006. These represent the first knee implants specifically shaped to offer fit and function optimized for anatomic features that are more commonly seen in female patients. This is our first Gender implant and is now an important strategic focus for us, as more than half of total knee arthroplasty patients are female. Gender Solutions Femorals are available in both CR Flex and LPS Flex configurations. We offer improved polyethylene performance in the NexGen Knee System with our conventional polyethylene and Prolongtm Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene, which offers reduced wear, resistance to oxidation, pitting and cracking and is the only insert cleared by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for resistance to delamination. Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene is available in both NexGen CR Flex and LPS Flex designs. The Natural Knee II System. The Natural Knee II System consists of a range of interchangeable, anatomically designed implants which include a proprietary Cancellous Structured Titaniumtm (CSTitm) Porous Coating option for stable fixation in active patients and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene. We launched new Natural Knee II MIS instruments in December 2004 which are designed to accommodate a smaller incision. The Innex Total Knee System. The Innex Knee System offers fixed bearing and mobile bearing knee components all designed within the same system philosophy. While the Innex Knee System is best known for its mobile bearing knee offering, the availability of differing levels of articular constraint and the Innex Revision Knee components provide for a comprehensive mobile and fixed bearing knee system. The Innex Knee System is distributed in Europe and Asia Pacific, and is not available for commercial distribution in the United States. The Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee System. The Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee System offers a high flexion design to unicompartmental knee surgery. The high flexion product was designed specifically for MIS Procedures and Technologies. The system offers the surgeon the ability to conserve bone by replacing only the compartment of the knee that has had degenerative changes. Hip Implants Total hip replacement surgeries replace both the head of the femur and the socket portion of the pelvis (acetabulum) of the natural hip. Hip procedures include first time, or primary, joint replacement as well as revision procedures. Approximately 40 percent of hip implant procedures involve the use of bone cement to attach or affix the prosthetic components to the surrounding bone. The remaining are press fit into bone, which means that they have a surface that bone affixes to through either ongrowth or ingrowth technologies. Our portfolio of MIS Techniques includes the Zimmer MIS 2 Incision, the Zimmer MIS Posterior, and the Zimmer MIS Anterolateral Techniques. The incision for a traditional open hip primary replacement may be approximately 12 inches long. Other less invasive approaches, such as a mini incision for hips, have been in existence for some time. Since January 2004, surgeons have been able to use a computer image guided MIS 2 Incision Hip Procedure with technology and instrumentation co developed by us and our MIS Technologies computer navigation partner, Medtronic, Inc. We received a U.S. patent for our MIS 2 Incision Hip Procedure in 2004. Our key hip replacement products include: VerSys Hip System. The VerSys Hip System is supported by a common instrumentation set and is an integrated family of hip products with design specific options to meet varying surgical philosophies and patient needs. The VerSys Hip System includes the following features: a variety of stem designs and fixation options for both primary and revision situations, a modular design that allows for a variety of femoral heads, optimal sizing selections, and a common instrumentation set for use with virtually all VerSys Stems. Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Prosthesis. The Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Prosthesis product was our first utilization of Trabecular Metal Technology on a hip prosthesis. The prosthesis utilizes a unique proximal design to aggressively lock the prosthesis in the bone and provide for an optimized environment for bony ingrowth to occur into the highly porous Trabecular Metal material. Zimmer M/ L Taper Prosthesis. The Zimmer M/ L Taper Prosthesis offers a dual wedge and proximally porous coated design that was based on long term clinically proven concepts. The M/ L Taper has become widely used in MIS Procedures due to its overall design and ease of use. Specific 6 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT instruments have been developed to facilitate the insertion of the Zimmer M/ L Taper Hip Prosthesis through the MIS Anterolateral Technique. Alloclassic Zweymller Hip System. The Alloclassic Zweymller Hip System has become the most used, primary, cementless hip in the world. This is one of the few stems available today that is practically unchanged since its introduction in 1979. A new offset design was added in 2004 and offers the surgeon increased capability to restore the patients anatomical joint movement. CLS Spotorno Hip Stem. The CLS SpotornoStem is one of our largest selling hip prostheses, especially in the European markets. Additions to the product line in 2004 provided the capability for restoration of the physiological center of rotation. The CLS Spotorno Stem has excellent clinical results, confirmed by the 2004 Swedish Hip Registry with a 100 percent implant survivorship after 11 years. Trilogy Acetabular System. The Trilogy Acetabular System, including titanium alloy shells, polyethylene liners, screws and instruments, is our primary acetabular cup system. The Trilogy family of products offers versatile component designs and instrumentation. One option, the Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liner, is designed to address the issue of wear and reduce the generation of debris in total hip arthroplasty. Polyethylene debris may cause the degeneration of bone surrounding reconstructive implants, a painful condition called osteolysis. We began offering the Trabecular Metal Modular Primary Acetabular System in 2004. This particular product incorporates design features from the Trilogy family of acetabular shells augmented with the advanced fixation surface of Trabecular Metal Material. In addition to the Trabecular Metal Acetabular System, we also offer a Trabecular Metal Revision Acetabular Shell for advanced fixation in acetabulae with insufficient bone. Alternative Bearing Technology. We have a broad portfolio of alternative bearing technologies which include Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylenes, Metasul Metal on Metal Articulation and Cerasul and Trilogy AB Ceramic on Ceramic Articulation. Alternative bearings are designed to minimize wear over time, potentially increasing the longevity of the implant. In 2006, we received approval from the FDA to market the Trilogy AB Acetabular System. Durom Hip Resurfacing System. This product is particularly suited to patients who are at risk of requiring multiple hip replacements over their lifetimes since it preserves the patients healthy bone stock. A primary objective of this system is to allow the patient to return to an active lifestyle. The Durom System uses the highly wear resistant Metasul Metal on Metal Technology as the bearing surface for the implant design. Since 1988, Metasul Technology has been used successfully for total hip replacement. Todays metal on metal technology is the result of nearly two decades of development, research and clinical evaluation, which formed the foundation for the Durom Hip Resurfacing System. The option of the large diameter heads offers the advantage of a low wear solution while providing greater joint stability and high range of motion in combination with the wide range of cemented and uncemented femoral implants. We received 510(k) approval from the FDA on the Durom Acetabular Shell and associated large diameter Metasul Heads in 2006. PALACOS1Bone Cement. In 2005, we acquired exclusive United States distribution rights for the PALACOS line of bone cement products manufactured by Heraeus Kulzer GmbH, a world leader in the development and production of orthopaedic bone cement products and other healthcare technologies. We also have non exclusive distribution rights in specific geographies outside of the United States. Included in these brands are PALACOS R and PALACOS R+G Bone Cements, as well as PALACOS LV and PALACOS LV+G Bone Cements. The PALACOS R+G and PALACOS LV+G products are bone cements with the antibiotic gentamiacin pre mixed in the formulation, which is used by the orthopaedic surgeon to reduce the risk of postoperative infection. The products handling characteristics make it well suited for minimally invasive procedures. Extremity Implants Our extremity implants, primarily shoulder and elbow products, are designed to treat arthritic conditions and fractures, as well as to enhance the outcome of primary or revision surgery. Bigliani/ Flatow Complete Shoulder Solution Family. The Bigliani/ Flatow product line combined with the Trabecular Metal Humeral Stem gives us a significant presence in the global shoulder implant market. Trabecular Metal Reverse Shoulder System. Introduced in 2006, the Trabecular Metal Reverse Shoulder System incorporates advanced materials to offer improved orthobiological ingrowth potential through the utilization of Trabecular Metal Technology, while addressing significant loss of rotator cuff function. The reverse shoulder system is designed to restore function to patients who, because of debilitating rotator cuff tears, are not candidates for traditional shoulder surgery and have exhausted other means of repair. Anatomical Shouldertm System. The Anatomical Shoulder System can be tailored to each patients individual anatomy. This portfolio of products was further expanded into the United States in 2006 to include the Anatomical Shoulder Inverse/Reverse System, designed to address significant loss of rotator cuff function. Additionally, we 1 Registered Trademark of Heraeus Kulzer GmbH. 7 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT introduced a fracture stem into this system in 2006. Both the primary and fracture shoulder implants can be converted to a reverse shoulder without removal of the initial implant. Zimmer Collagen Repair Patch. This biological patch is used for the repair of rotator cuff injuries in the shoulder. This product can aid in reinforcing rotator cuff tears and help provide predictable strength of repair. The underlying technology was developed by Tissue Science Laboratories plc (TSL) of the United Kingdom, with whom we have an exclusive distribution agreement. Coonrad/Morrey Total Elbow. The Coonrad/Morrey Total Elbow product line is a family of elbow replacement implant products. Dental Products Our Dental division, headquartered in Carlsbad, California, manufactures and distributes (1) dental reconstructive implants for individuals who are totally without teeth or are missing one or more teeth; (2) dental restorative products aimed at providing a more natural restoration to mimic the original teeth; and (3) dental regenerative products for soft tissue and bone rehabilitation. In 2006, Zimmer Dental opened a specialized Zimmer Institute training center dedicated to helping clinicians further their knowledge, skills and confidence essential for the practice of contemporary implant dentistry. Dental Reconstructive Implants Our dental reconstructive implant products and surgical and restorative techniques include: Tapered Screw Vent Implant System. Our highest selling dental product line provides the clinician a tapered geometry which mimics the natural shape of a tooth root. The Tapered Screw Vent System, with its two stage design, was developed to minimize valuable chair time for restorations. Featuring a patented internal hex connection, multiple lead threads for reduced insertion time and selective surface coatings, the Tapered Screw Vent Product is a technologically advanced dental implant offering features designed to allow the clinician to meet the needs of patients even in the most demanding circumstances. The introduction in 2006 of the Zimmer One Piece Implant System, designed to complement the success of the Tapered Screw Vent System, enhances this product line by offering clinicians a fast, convenient restorative option. AdVent Implant System. Utilizing many features of the Tapered Screw Vent System, the AdVent Product is a transgingival, one stage design that utilizes the same surgical system as the Tapered Screw Vent System, allowing the clinician to use both design concepts without incurring the added cost of a second surgical system. Tapered SwissPlus Implant System. Designed to meet the needs of clinicians who prefer a transgingival, one stage, dental implant, the Tapered SwissPlus System incorporates multiple lead threads for faster insertion time, and a tapered body to allow it to be placed in tight interdental spaces. The Tapered SwissPlus System also incorporates an internal connection. Dental Restorative Products We commercialize products for the aesthetic market aimed at providing a more natural restoration. We offer a full line of prosthetic devices for each of the above dental implant systems as well as a custom solution, as follows: Zimmer Hex Locktm Contour Abutment and Restorative Products. Designed to be used with our Tapered Screw Vent and One Piece Implant Systems, our contour lines are an off the shelf solution for immediately addressing the diversity of patients needs. Featuring prepared margins, titanium and ceramic options, and snap on impression caps, our abutments are designed to simplify the restoration process, save time for clinicians and technicians, and offer versatility. Atlantis2 Abutment. We market the Atlantis Abutment System through an agreement with Atlantis Components, Inc. This product allows for a custom made restoration improving aesthetic results in dental implant procedures. The abutments use a patented process that employs 3 D optical scanning, automated design software and integrated machining to manufacture individualized components for the dental implant market. Atlantis Abutments are available in titanium and ceramic. Dental Regenerative Products We market the following product lines for use in regenerative techniques in oral surgery: Puros Allograft Products. The Puros Material is an allograft grafting material which utilizes the Tutoplast3 Tissue Processing Technique that provides exceptional bone and soft tissue grafting material for use in oral surgery. Zimmer Dental offers five distinct Puros Allograft products to use together or separately for various bone and soft tissue grafting needs: Puros Cancellous Particulate, Puros Cortical Particulate, Puros Block Allografts, Puros Pericardium Membranes, and Puros Dermis Membranes. We market the Puros Allograft Products through an agreement with Tutogen Medical, Inc. During 2006, within our Dental division, we released the Zimmer Hex Lock Contour Abutment, Contour Ceramic Abutment, Contour Restorative Components, and the Atlantis Ceramic Abutment. Designed to mimic our successful Tapered Screw Vent and the new aesthetic Contour restorative products, we introduced the Zimmer One Piece Implant System, a single stage line which can make immediate restoration easier and more convenient for the surgical 2 Trademark of Atlantis Components, Inc. 3 Registered Trademark of Tutogen Medical, Inc. 8 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT and restorative team. In 2006, we expanded our regenerative product portfolio, entering the soft tissue grafting market, with the addition of Puros Pericardium and Dermis Membranes, and we expanded distribution of the Puros product lines into Canada and Latin America. We also introduced new, color coded packaging for all of our dental implant lines and a Zimmer Surgical Motor System. Spine Implants Our Spine division, located in Minneapolis, Minnesota, designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices and surgical instruments that provide comprehensive spine care solutions for patients with back pain, neck pain, degenerative disc conditions and injuries due to trauma. Zimmer Spine offers orthopaedic surgeons and neurosurgeons a full range of devices for posterior and anterior applications, including products in Interbody Fusion, Cervical, Thoracolumbar, Dynamic Stabilization and Biologic applications. Our spine product offerings include: Dynesys4 Dynamic Stabilization System. The Dynesys System is used in the treatment of lower back and leg pain in skeletally mature patients. Developed to bring the lumbar vertebrae into a more natural anatomical position while stabilizing the affected segments, the Dynesys System uses flexible materials threaded through pedicle screws rather than rigid rods or bone grafts alone or as an adjunct to fusion. ST360 Spinal Fixation System. The ST360 Spinal Fixation System combines polyaxial screws and lateral connectors into a single system. The combination of polyaxial screws and lateral connectors reduces the potential for transferring loads, during assembly, between rods and screws that are not perfectly aligned. Optimatm5 ZS Spinal Fixation System. The Optima ZS Spinal Fixation System is a low profile, in line, polyaxial pedicle screw design incorporating three dimensional adjustability while allowing for simple, stable construct assembly. Trinica Select Anterior Cervical Plate System. The Trinica Select Anterior Cervical Plate System and All Through One instrumentation is designed to simplify the surgical procedure while requiring less retraction and reducing the risk of soft tissue damage. The Trinica Select Self Drilling Screws are designed to provide the surgeon with the option to reduce the amount of instruments, thereby potentially reducing the amount of retraction and surgical time required to implant the Trinica Select Plate. Trabecular Metal Technology. Trabecular Metal Technology has a wide range of orthopaedic applications. In the United States, Trabecular Metal Material shapes are cleared for Vertebral Body Replacement procedures as well as bone void fillers. Puros Allograft Products. We continue to sell traditional and specialty Puros Allograft Bone Products through our exclusive U.S. and Canadian distribution agreements with Tutogen Medical, Inc. Puros Products consist of traditional and specialty grafts which are produced from donated human tissues, preserved with Tutogens patented Tutoplast6Process of tissue preservation. The Tutoplast Process is a proprietary tissue processing system designed to significantly reduce the amount of cells, bone marrow and lipid components from processed allograft bone and connective tissue while preserving the extra cellular matrix (collagen and mineral components). CopiOs Bone Void Filler. CopiOs Bone Void Filler is a collagen based synthetic bone graft material formed into pads of various sizes for surgical implantation. It is intended for filling bone voids resulting from trauma or created by a surgeon. Trauma Trauma products include devices used primarily to stabilize damaged or broken bones and tissues to support the bodys natural healing process. The most common surgical stabilization of bone fracture involves the internal fixation of bone fragments. This stabilization can involve the use of a wide assortment of plates, screws, nails, wires and pins. In addition, external fixation devices may be used to stabilize fractures or correct deformities by applying them externally to the limb. We are focusing on aligning our trauma products with MIS Procedures and on integrating orthobiologics and other next generation technologies into our trauma solutions. In 2005, we formed a standalone Zimmer Trauma division based in Warsaw, Indiana in order to compete more effectively against the companies that have been traditional market leaders in the field. We offer a comprehensive line of trauma products, including: M/DN Intramedullary Fixation, Sirus Intramedullary Nail System, and I.T.S.T. Intertrochanteric/Subtrochanteric Fixation System. The M/DN, Sirus and I.T.S.T. Intramedullary Nailing Systems are utilized for the internal fixation of long bone fractures. The systems include specialized instrumentation that allow the nails to be put in using a minimally invasive approach that can help improve patient recovery times. The I.T.S.T. Nail System helps surgeons treat patients with fractures of the hip and proximal femur. Most of these fractures occur in patients with osteoporosis. In 2006, new instrumentation was introduced for the I.T.S.T. System to enable the use of the nail through an MIS approach, which helps encourage early patient ambulation. Sirus Nails are highly anatomic, designed to match patients of every size. The nails and associated implants are made from titanium, a material which is preferred by many surgeons. The Sirus Nails, originally sold only in Europe and parts of Asia Pacific, have recently been 4 The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization Spinal System is indicated for use as an adjunct to fusion. 5 Trademark of U & J Corporation 6 Trademark of Tutogen Medical, Inc. 9 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT introduced into the United States, Japan and other key markets. NCB Locking Plate System. The titanium NCB Locking Plates deliver the ability for surgeons to target screws with polyaxial freedom and utilize both conventional and locking technology in the treatment of complex fractures of the distal femur, proximal humerus and proximal tibia. Zimmer Periarticular Locking Plate System. The Zimmer Periarticular Locking Plate System combines the advanced design techniques with locking screw technology to create constructs for use in comminuted fractures or where deficient bone stock or poor bone quality is encountered. By combining locking screw holes with compression slots, the plates can be used as both locking devices and fracture compression devices. With the worldwide release of MIS instrumentation, these plates can be applied using a minimally invasive technique which minimizes additional trauma to the bones and soft tissues. Zimmer Universal Locking System. The Zimmer Universal Locking System is a comprehensive system of stainless steel plates, screws and instruments for fracture fixation. The Universal Locking System plates resemble standard plates, but have figure 8 shaped holes that will accommodate standard or locking screws on either side of the hole. As a result, the plate can be used, depending upon the fracture situation, as a compression plate, a locked internal fixator or as an internal fixation system combining both techniques. Orthopaedic Surgical Products We develop, manufacture and market surgical products that support our reconstructive, trauma, spinal and dental product systems in the operating room environment with a focus on blood management, surgical wound site management, pain management and patient management products. Our orthopaedic surgical products include: A.T.S. Tourniquet Systems. The A.T.S. Tourniquet Systems Product Line is a family of tourniquet machines and cuffs designed to safely create a bloodless surgical field. The machines include the A.T.S. 3000 Tourniquet, which utilizes patented technology to determine a patients proper Limb Occlusion Pressure based on the patients specific physiology. The range of cuffs which complement the machines provide the flexibility to occlude blood flow safely with convenience and accuracy for limbs of virtually every size and shape. Surgical Power Tools and Consumables. In 2006, we obtained United States distribution rights for the Brasseler USAtm1 Orthopaedic Power System (BOPS) for large bone applications and the Pneumicro1 system for small bone applications. In addition, we also market a complete line of consumable blades and burs to be utilized with the Brasseler Orthopaedic Power System and Pneumicro system, as well as most competitive power tool Systems. Zimmer Ambulatory Pump. This line of products in our portfolio is designed to provide physicians an alternative method for post operative pain management. The elastomeric pump contained in the kit is provided by Baxter Healthcare and delivers non systemic analgesic medications for surgical site infusions or regional nerve blockades. In addition, certain models in this portfolio offer the patient the ability to deliver a bolus of medication in order to address break through pain. Pulsavac Plus, Pulsavac Plus AC and Pulsavac Plus LP Wound Debridement Systems. These Pulsavac Systems are used for cleaning and debridement of contaminants and foreign matter from wounds using simultaneous irrigation and suction. All three Pulsavac Systems are completely disposable to reduce the risk of cross contamination. ORTHOBIOLOGICS Our research and development efforts include an Orthobiologics group based in Austin, Texas, with its own full time staff and dedicated projects. We are working on orthobiological solutions to repair and regenerate damaged or degenerated orthopaedic tissues. These materials offer the possibility of treating damaged joints by orthobiological repair rather than replacing them with inert materials. A sampling of some of our key projects in the Orthobiologics area is set forth below. We are collaborating with ISTO Technologies, Inc. (ISTO) to develop chondral and osteochondral cartilage grafts for cartilage repair. ISTO is developing cartilage regeneration and cell based therapies using cartilage cells from juvenile donor hyaline cartilage, with initial applications focused upon knee joints and spinal discs. A Phase I clinical trial (IND) is currently underway for Neocartilage, a living tissue engineered graft under investigation for the restoration of cartilage defects, reestablishment of joint function and relief of pain in the knee. We plan to market the product as DeNovo ET Engineered Tissue Graft. The DeNovo NT Natural Tissue Graft, another cartilage repair product we are developing in conjunction with ISTO, consists of juvenile chondrocytes in the form of minced cartilage tissue. We expect to begin marketing this product in late 2007. We have worldwide exclusive distribution rights for genetically engineered xenogeneic porcine tissues for orthopaedic applications from Revivicor, Inc., which has an advanced transgenic technology platform for the production of tissues and cells. We are centralizing our initial efforts on the development of technologies for orthopaedic applications, including the repair and replacement of damaged tendon, ligament, meniscus, cartilage, bone and spinal nucleus tissues. 1 Trademarks of Brasseler USA, Inc. 10 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT As mentioned above under the caption Extremity Implants, our orthobiological patch aids in repair of rotator cuff injuries in the shoulder. The underlying technology was developed by TSL and is being marketed by us as the Zimmer Collagen Repair Patch. Many orthopaedic surgical procedures use bone grafts to help regenerate lost or damaged bone. As noted above, our Spine and Trauma divisions introduced a technologically advanced synthetic bone graft material, CopiOs Bone Void Filler. This synthetic material is similar to an individuals cancellous bone and is used to fill these bone voids or defects. It can be soaked in an individuals own bone marrow to localize biologic components necessary for bone growth to aid in healing, and it is completely replaced by natural bone during the healing process. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We have extensive research and development activities to introduce new surgical techniques, materials, orthobiologics and product designs. The research and development functions work closely with our strategic brand marketing function. The rapid commercialization of innovative new materials, orthobiologics products, implant and instrument designs, and surgical techniques remains one of our core strategies and continues to be an important driver of sales growth. Among the numerous new product launches, we released the industrys first Gender Solutions Knee Femoral, the Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Prosthesis, the Trabecular Metal Acetabular Revision System, the Durom Acetabular Cup with Metasul Large Diameter Heads, the VerSys Epoch Composite Hip Stem, the Trilogy AB Ceramic on Ceramic Acetabular System, the Zimmer Reverse and Inverse Anatomical Shoulder Systems, the MIS Femoral Nailing Solution, the NCB Plating System, the Trinica Anterior Lumbar Plate System, the Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System with hydroxyapatite (HA) coated screws, Trabecular Metal Thoracolumbar Components and the CopiOs Bone Void Filler Sponge. Other new product, surgical technique and instrument introductions in the orthopaedic reconstructive implants, spine implants, trauma, orthopaedic surgical products and orthobiologics product categories are more fully described above under the captions PRODUCTS and ORTHOBIOLOGICS. These and other new products introduced in the last three years accounted for approximately 24 percent of 2006 total sales, exceeding our new products sales goal of 15 to 20 percent of total sales on an annual basis. We are broadening our product offerings in each of the product categories and exploring new technologies that have applications in multiple areas. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we spent $188.3 million, $175.5 million and $166.7 million, respectively, on research and development. The increased research and development expenditures have accelerated the output of new orthopaedic and dental reconstructive implants, spine and trauma products, including advanced new materials, product designs and surgical techniques. Our primary research and development facility is located in Warsaw, Indiana. In 2006, we made significant progress on our research and development facility expansion project in Warsaw and construction is nearly complete. We have other research and development personnel based in, among other places, Winterthur, Switzerland; Austin, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Carlsbad, California; Dover, Ohio; and Parsippany, New Jersey. As of December 31, 2006, we employed more than 550 research and development employees worldwide. We will continue to identify innovative technologies and consider acquiring complementary products or businesses, or establishing technology licensing arrangements or strategic alliances. GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND QUALITY SYSTEMS We are subject to government regulation in the countries in which we conduct business. It is our policy to comply with all regulatory requirements governing our operations and products, and we believe that the research, development, manufacturing and quality control procedures that we employ are in material compliance with all applicable regulations. In the United States, numerous regulations govern the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of medical devices, including, among others, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations issued or promulgated thereunder. The FDA regulates product safety and efficacy, laboratory, clinical and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping for medical devices and post market surveillance to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. A few of the devices we develop and market are in a category for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and pre market approval requirements. All of our products marketed in the United States have been cleared or approved by the FDA. The FDA has the authority to: halt the distribution of certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices; or order the repair, replacement or refund of the costs of such devices. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that we must comply with in the manufacture and marketing of our products. In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to local regulations affecting, among other things, design and product standards, packaging requirements and labeling requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The member countries of the European Union have adopted the European Medical Device Directive, which creates a single set of medical device regulations for products marketed in all member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in European Union member countries to provide CE marking of their products. We maintain an ISO certified quality system and comply with the requirements of the Medical Device Directive which, together, enable us to apply the CE mark to 11 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT products in those jurisdictions that require it (Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand). We are subject to various government regulations pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti kickback laws and physician self referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration (VA) health programs and Civilian Health and Medical Program Uniformed Service (CHAMPUS). The scope and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with these laws. We are committed to providing high quality products to our customers and we have implemented modern quality systems and concepts throughout the organization. The quality assurance department supervises our quality systems. Senior management is actively involved in setting quality policies and managing internal and external quality performance. Our regulatory affairs and compliance department is responsible for assuring compliance with all applicable regulations, standards and internal policies. We have initiated numerous quality improvement programs and all of our manufacturing operations are certified to ISO 13485:2003 global standard for quality management systems. Our facilities and operations are also subject to various government environmental and occupational health and safety requirements of the United States and foreign countries, including those relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of properties by pollutants. We believe we are currently in material compliance with such requirements. COMPETITION The orthopaedics industry is highly competitive. In the global markets for reconstructive implants, trauma and orthopaedic surgical products, our major competitors include: DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc., Synthes, Inc., Smith & Nephew plc, Wright Medical Group, Inc. and Tornier Inc. In the Americas geographic segment, we and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc., Smith & Nephew, Inc. (a subsidiary of Smith & Nephew plc), Wright Medical Group, Inc. and Synthes, Inc., account for a large majority of the total reconstructive and trauma implant sales. The European reconstructive implant and trauma product markets are more fragmented than the Americas or the Asia Pacific segments. The variety of philosophies held by European surgeons regarding hip reconstruction, for example, has fostered the existence of many regional European companies, including Mathys AG and Plus Orthopedics Holdings AG, which compete with us in addition to the global competitors. Today most hip implants sold in Europe are products developed specifically for Europe, although global products are gaining acceptance. Therefore, we will continue to develop and produce specially tailored products to meet specific European needs. In the Asia Pacific market for reconstructive implant and trauma products, we compete primarily with DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., Stryker Corporation, Synthes, Inc. and Smith & Nephew plc, as well as regional companies, including Japan Medical Materials Corporation and Japan Medical Dynamic Marketing, Inc. Factors, such as the dealer system, complex regulatory environments and the accompanying inability to compete on price, make it difficult for smaller companies, particularly those that are non regional, to compete effectively with the market leaders in the Asia Pacific region. In the dental reconstructive implant category, we compete primarily with Nobel Biocare Holding AG, Straumann Holding AG, and Implant Innovations, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.). In the spinal implant category, we compete globally primarily with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Synthes, Inc., Stryker Corporation and EBI, L.P., now operating as Biomet Trauma and Biomet Spine (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.). Competition within the industry is primarily based on technology, innovation, quality, reputation, customer relationships and service. A key factor in our continuing success in the future will be our ability to develop new products and improve existing products and technologies. Where possible, we will continue to seek patent, trademark and other intellectual property protection concerning the surgical techniques, materials, technologies and products we design and develop. MANUFACTURING AND RAW MATERIALS We manufacture substantially all of our products at eight locations, including Warsaw, Indiana; Winterthur, Switzerland; Ponce, Puerto Rico; Dover, Ohio; Statesville, North Carolina; Carlsbad, California; Parsippany, New Jersey; and Etupes, France. As part of the execution of the Centerpulse integration plan, we liquidated our Austin, Texas facility in 2006. Over the past two years, we have expanded our other manufacturing sites to accommodate increased demand, the transfer of production from the Austin, Texas facility and the tripling of Trabecular Metal Technology production capacity. We believe that our manufacturing facilities set industry standards in terms of automation and have the flexibility to accommodate future growth. The manufacturing operations at these facilities are designed to incorporate the cellular concept for production and to implement tenets of a manufacturing philosophy focused on continuous operational improvement. In addition, at certain of our manufacturing facilities, many of the employees are cross trained. We generally operate our manufacturing facilities at a targeted goal of approximately 90 percent of total capacity. 12 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT We continually evaluate the potential to in source products currently purchased from outside vendors to on site production. Improving manufacturing productivity has been a major contributor to improvement in profitability. Major areas of improvement have included utilization of computer assisted robots and multi axis grinders to precision polish medical devices, automation of certain manufacturing and inspection processes including on machine inspection and process controls, state of the art equipment purchases and upgrades, in sourcing of core products, such as castings and forgings, high speed machining, and negotiated reductions in third party supplier costs. We use a diverse and broad range of raw materials in the design, development and manufacturing of our products. We purchase all of our raw materials and select components used in manufacturing our products from external suppliers. In addition, we purchase some supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We work closely with our suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Although a change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment by us in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to the performance of our products or incorporate unique technology, we do not believe that the loss of any existing supply contract would have a material adverse effect on our financial and operational performance. To date, we have not experienced any significant difficulty in locating and obtaining the materials necessary to fulfill our production schedules. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the continued success of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, know how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary rights through a variety of methods, including confidentiality agreements and proprietary information agreements with vendors, employees, consultants and others who may have access to proprietary information. We own or control through licensing arrangements more than 4,000 issued patents and patent applications throughout the world that relate to aspects of the technology incorporated in many of our products. EMPLOYEES We employ more than 6,900 employees worldwide, including more than 550 employees dedicated to research and development. Nearly 4,200 employees are located within the United States and more than 2,700 employees are located outside of the United States, primarily throughout Europe and in Japan. We have over 2,200 employees dedicated to manufacturing our products worldwide. The Warsaw, Indiana production facility employs more than 1,000 employees. Fewer than 200 North American employees are members of a trade union covered by a collective bargaining agreement. In May 2003, we renewed a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers of America covering employees at the Dover, Ohio, facility. This agreement will continue in effect until May 15, 2007. We are in preliminary negotiations with the union regarding the new agreement. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of January 31, 2007. Name Age Position J. Raymond Elliott 57 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Cheryl R. Blanchard, Ph.D. 42 Senior Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer Sheryl L. Conley 46 Group President, Americas and Global Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer James T. Crines 47 Senior Vice President, Finance, Operations and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer David C. Dvorak 43 Group President, Global Businesses and Chief Legal Officer Jon E. Kramer 60 President, U.S. Sales Sam R. Leno 61 Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer Bruno A. Melzi 59 Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Africa Stephen H.L. Ooi 53 President, Asia Pacific Chad F. Phipps 35 Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Mr. Elliott was appointed Chairman of Zimmer Holdings on August 6, 2001 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Zimmer Holdings on March 20, 2001. Mr. Elliott was appointed President of Zimmer, Inc., a predecessor, in November 1997. Mr. Elliott has more than 35 years of experience in orthopaedics, medical devices and consumer products. He has served as a director on more than 20 business related boards in the U.S., Canada, Japan and 13 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT Europe and has served on five occasions as Chairman. He has served as a member of the board of directors and chair of the orthopaedic sector of the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) and is currently a director of the State of Indiana Workplace Development Board, the Indiana Chamber of Commerce and the American Swiss Foundation. Mr. Elliott has served as the Indiana representative on the Presidents State Scholars Program and as a trustee of the Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation (OREF). During the fourth quarter of 2006, Mr. Elliott announced that he plans to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of Zimmer Holdings during the first half of 2007, assuming that a successor CEO has been named. He will remain Chairman through at least November 2007. Dr. Blanchard was appointed Senior Vice President, Global Clinical Affairs, Global Regulatory Affairs, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer of Zimmer Holdings in December 2005. She is responsible for Global Research, Global Development, Global Quality, Orthobiologics, External Research and Emerging Technologies. From October 2003 to December 2005, Dr. Blanchard served as Vice President, Corporate Research and Clinical Affairs; from August 2002 to October 2003, she served as Vice President, Research and Biologics; and from October 2000 to August 2002, she served as Director, Research. Prior to joining us in October 2000, Dr. Blanchard served in Manager, Professor and Fellow roles at the Southwest Research Institute, the University of Texas Health Science Center and Oak Ridge National Laboratory, respectively. Ms. Conley was appointed Group President, Americas and Global Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer of Zimmer Holdings in December 2005. She is responsible for all Global Marketing and all Western Hemisphere operations, including our business in the United States, Canada and Latin America. She is our first Chief Marketing Officer. From October 2003 to December 2005, Ms. Conley served as President, Global Products Group. From September 2002 to October 2003, Ms. Conley served as President, Zimmer Reconstructive and from May 2000 to September 2002, she served as Vice President, Global Brand Management and Commercialization, where she was responsible for Zimmers worldwide branding, marketing and new product development efforts. Ms. Conley was General Manager, Zimmer Canada, from 1998 to 2000. Ms. Conley joined Zimmer, Inc. in 1983 and has held various management positions in marketing, operations and clinical research. Mr. Crines was appointed Senior Vice President, Finance, Operations and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Zimmer Holdings in December 2005. He is responsible for internal and external financial reporting, corporate and business unit accounting, and operations and logistics. From October 2003 to December 2005, Mr. Crines served as Senior Vice President, Finance/Controller and Information Technology. From July 2001 to October 2003, Mr. Crines served as Vice President, Finance/Controller and from September 2000 to July 2001, he served as Vice President, Finance and Information Technology. Mr. Crines served Zimmer, Inc. as Director of Finance and Logistics, Japan from May 1999 until September 2000. Mr. Crines served as Associate Director, Accounting at Bristol Myers Squibb, Zimmers former parent, from September 1995 until he joined Zimmer, Inc. in 1997 as Director of Finance. Mr. Crines has over 20 years of experience in corporate and operations finance and accounting, including five years as an auditor. Mr. Dvorak was appointed Group President, Global Businesses and Chief Legal Officer of Zimmer Holdings in December 2005. He is responsible for the existing Dental, Spine, Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgical Products global divisions. Additionally, Mr. Dvorak is the Chief Legal Officer, with responsibility for the Global Legal, Intellectual Property, Litigation and Risk Groups. From October 2003 to December 2005, Mr. Dvorak served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, Chief Counsel and Secretary, as well as Chief Compliance Officer. From December 2001 to October 2003, Mr. Dvorak served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs and General Counsel. He served as Corporate Secretary from February 2003 to December 2005. Prior to his appointment with us, Mr. Dvorak served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and was a member of the Executive Committee of STERIS Corporation. Prior to joining STERIS in June 1996, Mr. Dvorak practiced corporate law at two large Cleveland, Ohio law firms, focusing on mergers and acquisitions and on securities law. Mr. Kramer was appointed President, U.S. Sales of Zimmer Holdings in December 2005. He is responsible for our sales activities throughout the United States. From August 2004 to December 2005, Mr. Kramer served as President, Americas. From October 2003 to August 2004, Mr. Kramer served as Vice President, U.S. Sales, and from 2001 to October 2003, he was our Area Vice President for the Southeast region of the United States. Prior to joining us, Mr. Kramer served as Vice President of Sales for Implex Corp. We acquired Implex on April 23, 2004, and the company formerly known as Implex is now our wholly owned subsidiary. Mr. Kramer has over 20 years of sales experience in the orthopaedics industry. Mr. Leno was appointed Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer of Zimmer Holdings in December 2005. He has overall responsibility for Finance and Operations, as well as Global Human Resources, Business Development and Strategic Planning, and Global Information Technology. From October 2003 to December 2005, Mr. Leno served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance and Operations, and Chief Financial Officer. From July 2001 to October 2003, Mr. Leno served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining us, Mr. Leno served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Arrow Electronics, Inc., a global distributor of electronic components, a position he held from March 1999 until he joined Zimmer. Between 1971 and March 1999, Mr. Leno held various chief financial officer 14 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT and other financial positions with several U.S. based companies and he previously served as a U.S. Naval Officer. Mr. Melzi was appointed Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Africa of Zimmer Holdings in October 2003. He is responsible for overall operations in the European, Middle Eastern and African regions. From March 2000 to October 2003, Mr. Melzi served as President, Europe/MEA; from October 1997 to March 2000, he served as Vice President and Managing Director of Italy, Germany and Switzerland; and from 1990 to October 1997, he served as Managing Director, Italy. Mr. Melzi has approximately 30 years of experience in the orthopaedics and medical products industry, including serving as General Manager and member of the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson Italy from 1983 to 1990. Mr. Ooi was appointed President, Asia Pacific of Zimmer Holdings in December 2005. He is responsible for overall operations in the Asia Pacific region, including responsibility for Japan. Following our acquisition of Centerpulse, Mr. Ooi served as President, Australasia from September 2003 to December 2005, where he was responsible for operations in Asia Pacific, excluding Japan. From September 2002 to September 2003, Mr. Ooi served as President, Asia Pacific region, and from January 1992 to September 2002, Mr. Ooi served as Vice President, Asia. Mr. Ooi joined us in March 1986 as Regional Manager and was promoted to General Manager, Asia in February 1987. Mr. Phipps was appointed Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Zimmer Holdings in December 2005. In addition to his role as Secretary to the Board of Directors, he has responsibility for Zimmers Global legal affairs, including general corporate and securities law matters. From September 2003 to December 2005, Mr. Phipps served as Associate Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Prior to joining us, Mr. Phipps served as Vice President and General Counsel of L&N Sales and Marketing, Inc. in Pennsylvania, and prior to joining L&N Sales and Marketing in 2002, Mr. Phipps practiced corporate law with the firm of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, focusing on corporate and securities law, mergers and acquisitions, and financial transactions. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet website address is www.zimmer.com. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or may be accessed free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following corporate governance and related documents, among others, are available through our website or may be obtained in print form, without charge, by request to our Investor Relations Department: Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation and Management Development Committee Charter, Corporate Governance Committee Charter, and Science and Technology Committee Charter. We intend to post on our Internet website any substantive amendment to, or waiver from, our Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers or a provision of our Code of Business Conduct that applies to any of our directors or executive officers. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including orthobiological therapies. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies. In the global markets for reconstructive orthopaedic implants, trauma products and other orthopaedic products, a limited number of competitors, including DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc., Wright Medical Group, Inc., Synthes, Inc. and Smith & Nephew plc, compete with us for the majority of product sales. In the spinal implant category, we compete globally primarily with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Synthes, Inc., Stryker Corporation and EBI, L.P. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.). In the dental reconstructive implant category, we compete primarily with Nobel Biocare Holding AG, Straumann Holding AG, and Implant Innovations, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.). Competition is primarily on the basis of: technology; innovation; quality; 15 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT reputation; relationships with customers; and service. In markets outside of the United States, other factors influence competition as well, including: local distribution systems; complex regulatory environments; and differing medical philosophies and product preferences. Our competitors may: have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us; respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies; undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. Any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products. If third party payors decline to reimburse our customers for our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our products may decline and our ability to sell our products profitably may be harmed. We sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors, dentists and other health care providers, all of which receive reimbursement for the health care services provided to their patients from third party payors, such as domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. These third party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost effective treatment methods, as determined by the third party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. If our products are not considered cost effective by third party payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products. In addition, third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services. For example, managed care programs often prescribe only those orthopaedic recovery products that match a patient as to age, need for mobility and other parameters in an effort to provide more cost effective care. If third party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and other health care providers for our products, demand for our products may decline or we may experience pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on sales, financial condition and results of operations. In international markets, where the movement toward health care reform and the development of managed care are generally not as advanced as in the United States, we have experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of health care reform. In Japan, for example, a government operated insurance system reimburses customers for our products. Under this system, the Japanese government periodically reviews and reduces the reimbursement levels for products. If the Japanese government continues to reduce the reimbursement level for orthopaedic products, our sales, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are subject to cost containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many customers for our products have formed group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. Group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organizations affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturers products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to respond to the cost containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in ongoing investigations by the United States Department of Justice of companies in the orthopaedics industry, the results of which may have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. In March 2005, we received a subpoena and we have received supplemental requests since that time from the United States Department of Justice through the United States Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey, requesting documents and related information for the period beginning January 1998 related to consulting contracts, professional service agreements and other agreements by which we may provide remuneration to orthopaedic surgeons, including research and other grant agreements. In June 2006, we received a subpoena from the United States Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, requesting documents for the period beginning January 2001 through June 2006, pertaining to an investigation of possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violations of the antitrust laws, involving the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices. We are cooperating fully with federal authorities with regard to these investigations, which we understand involve a number of other orthopaedic manufacturers as well. If, as a result of these investigations, we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT We and our customers are subject to various governmental regulations and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible with these regulations. The medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable FDA medical device or other material regulatory requirements, including, for example, the Quality System Regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, that failure could result in, among other things: warning letters; fines or civil penalties; injunctions; repairs, replacements or refunds; recalls or seizures of products; total or partial suspension of production; the FDAs refusal to grant future premarket clearances or approvals; withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions, in combination or alone, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things: clinical efficacy; product standards; packaging requirements; labeling requirements; import/export restrictions; tariff regulations; duties; and tax requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries, such as the European Medical Devices Directive, are similar to those of the FDA. In addition, in many countries the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. Failure to receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As both the FDA and foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards Organization. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. We are subject to health care fraud and abuse regulations that could require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. Our industry is subject to various Federal and state laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti kickback laws and physician self referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration (VA) health programs and Civilian Health and Medical Program Uniformed Service (CHAMPUS). The scope and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and subject to rapid change. Because of the far reaching and uncertain nature of these laws, we are required to monitor our practices to remain in compliance with these laws. If we were to violate one or more of these laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, some of our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful and, as a result, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Our business is subject to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. Our products are often used in surgical and intensive care settings. In addition, some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product related risks or product related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers. As part of our risk management policy, we maintain third party product liability insurance coverage. However, product liability claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record a self insured loss. Even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies may have substantial retentions or deductibles that provide that we will not receive insurance proceeds until the losses incurred exceed 17 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT the amount of those retentions or deductibles. We will be responsible for paying any losses that are below those retentions or deductibles. A product liability claim in excess of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If we fail to effectively utilize the skills and knowledge of orthopaedic surgeons, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. We maintain professional relationships with a number of orthopaedic surgeons who assist in product research and development and advise us on how to satisfy the full range of surgeon and patient needs. These professionals speak about our products at medical seminars, assist in the training of other professionals in the use of our products and provide us with feedback on the industrys acceptance of our new products. The failure of our products to retain the support of orthopaedic surgeons, who frequently recommend products or are involved in product selection decisions, or the failure of our new products to secure and retain similar support from surgeons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Our marketing success in the United States and abroad depends largely upon our agents and distributors sales and service expertise in the marketplace. Many of these agents have developed professional relationships with existing and potential customers because of their detailed knowledge of products and instruments. Many commonly provide operating room personnel with implant and instrument product training as well as product support in the operating room. A loss of a significant number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If some of the business practices of our independent sales agents and distributors are challenged as unlawful, they may have to change these practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we may not anticipate because of: evolving customer needs; changing demographics; slowing industry growth rates; declines in the reconstructive implant market; the introduction of new products and technologies; evolving surgical philosophies; and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. If that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer. The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: properly identify and anticipate customer needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient volumes on time; differentiate our offerings from competitors offerings; achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products; satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post operative recovery and lower cost procedures; innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and provide adequate medical education relating to new products and attract key surgeons to advocate these new products. In addition, new materials, product designs and surgical techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some or all markets, because of, among other factors: entrenched patterns of clinical practice; the need for regulatory clearance; and uncertainty with respect to third party reimbursement. Moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine their commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund the production. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. Because we sell our products in more than 100 countries, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. In 2006, we derived approximately $1,532.9 million, or 44% of our total revenue, from sales of our products outside of the United States. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; differing local product preferences and product requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; 18 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; labor force instability; differing labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and political and economic instability. Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which can increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. A substantial portion of our foreign generated revenues are generated in Europe and Japan. The United States dollar value of our foreign generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to the Euro or the Japanese Yen, as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The derivative financial instruments we enter into are in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. The forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings. We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors or others to take advantage of our research and development efforts. Our long term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. Also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. In the United States, patent applications are confidential for 18 months following their filing, and because third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, our patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. If a third party initiates litigation regarding our patents, our collaborators patents, or those patents for which we have license rights, and is successful, a court could declare our patents invalid or unenforceable or limit the scope of coverage of those patents. The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and biotechnology patents. If the USPTO or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more broadly, the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation will likely increase. On the other hand, if the USPTO or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more narrowly, the value of our proprietary rights may be reduced. Any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also capture market share from us by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know how, and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We attempt to protect this information with security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators. These individuals may breach these agreements and any remedies available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages. Furthermore, our trade secrets, know how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and profitability, in some cases materially. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT We may complete additional acquisitions, which could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive. We intend to continue to look for additional strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to complete additional acquisitions or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Acquiring and integrating new businesses involves risk, including the following: we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; the difficulties of integration may be increased if we need to integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and companies with different corporate cultures; we may not eliminate as many redundant costs as we anticipated in selecting our acquisition candidates; and one or more of our acquisition candidates also may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we failed to discover through our diligence prior to the acquisition. If we are unable to form strategic alliances, or if our strategic alliances fail to achieve their objectives, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Several of our strategic initiatives involve alliances with other orthopaedic and biotechnology companies. These include our agreement with Revivicor, Inc. relating to orthopaedic tissue technology, our collaboration with ISTO Technologies, Inc. relating to regenerative cartilage technology and our distribution agreement with Heraeus relating to orthopaedic bone cement products. The success of these and similar arrangements is largely dependent on technology and other intellectual property contributed by our strategic partners or the resources, efforts, and skills of these partners. Disputes and difficulties in such relationships are common, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest. Merger and acquisition activity may exacerbate these conflicts. The benefits of these alliances are reduced or eliminated when strategic partners: terminate the agreements or limit our access to the underlying intellectual property; fail to devote financial or other resources to the alliances and thereby hinder or delay development, manufacturing or commercialization activities; fail to successfully develop, manufacture or commercialize any products; or fail to maintain the financial resources necessary to continue financing their portion of the development, manufacturing, or commercialization costs or their own operations. Furthermore, under some of our strategic alliances, we may make milestone payments well in advance of commercialization of products with no assurance that we will ever recoup these payments. We also may make equity investments in our strategic partners. These investments may decline in value and result in our incurring financial statement charges in the future. If we are unable to timely complete our search for a new Chief Executive Officer and successfully transition to new leadership, our business could be adversely affected. In November 2006, J. Raymond Elliott, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, informed our Board of Directors that he plans to retire from his positions as President and Chief Executive Officer in the first half of 2007, assuming a successor CEO has been named. He will remain as Chairman through at least November 2007. Our Board of Directors, with the assistance of Spencer Stuart, a global executive recruiting firm, has begun a search for a successor, which includes both internal and external candidates. We cannot assure you when we will find a suitable candidate for this position and what effect, if any, a new CEO may have on our business and our ability to retain our senior executives and other key scientific, technical, sales, marketing and other personnel. The loss of the services of such senior executives or key personnel or any general instability in the composition of our senior management team could have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business and operating strategies. Once we hire a new CEO, our success will be dependent upon his or her ability to gain proficiency in leading our company; his or her ability to implement or adapt our corporate strategies and initiatives and his or her ability to develop key professional relationships, including relationships with our team members, the independent distributors who market our products, the orthopaedic surgeons who assist and advise us and our key suppliers and other business partners. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials and outsourced activities. We use a number of suppliers for raw materials we need to manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing activities. These suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our quality and regulatory requirements. Some key raw materials and outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source or a limited number of sources. A prolonged disruption or other inability to obtain these materials or activities could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future profitability may be affected by changes to our product category and region sales mix. Reconstructive implants produce the highest operating profit margins among our product categories. These products accounted for approximately 84 percent of 2006 net sales. Sales in our Americas region accounted for approximately 60 percent of 2006 net sales. Sales in the Americas region produce the highest operating profit margins in the geographic markets in which we operate. While we expect net sales of reconstructive implants and net sales in the Americas region to remain strong, changes to our product category mix or our region sales mix could adversely affect our future profitability. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 20 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT ITEM 2. Properties We have the following properties: Location Use Owned/ Leased Square Feet Warsaw, Indiana Research & Development, Manufacturing, Warehousing, Marketing & Administration Owned 1,232,000 Warsaw, Indiana Corporate Headquarters and The Zimmer Institute Owned 117,000 Warsaw, Indiana Offices, Manufacturing & Warehousing Leased 117,000 Carlsbad, California Offices, Research & Development, Manufacturing & The Zimmer Dental Institute Leased 118,000 Minneapolis, Minnesota Offices & Research & Development Owned 42,000 Statesville, North Carolina Manufacturing & Warehousing Owned 156,000 Dover, Ohio Research & Development, Manufacturing Owned 140,000 Wooster, Ohio Warehousing Leased 61,000 Cedar Knolls, New Jersey Manufacturing & Warehousing Leased 23,000 Parsippany, New Jersey Research & Development, Manufacturing & Warehousing Leased 115,000 Memphis, Tennessee Offices & Warehousing Leased 30,000 Austin, Texas Research & Development Leased 25,000 Sydney, Australia Offices & Warehousing Leased 36,000 Mdling, Austria Offices & Warehousing Owned 14,000 Wemmel, Belgium Offices & Warehousing Leased 15,000 Mississauga, Canada Offices & Warehousing Leased 52,000 Shanghai, China Offices & Warehousing Leased 18,000 Etupes, France Offices, Manufacturing & Warehousing Owned 90,000 Freiburg, Germany Offices & Warehousing Leased 51,000 Kiel, Germany Offices & Warehousing Leased 21,000 Milan, Italy Offices & Warehousing Leased 47,000 Gotemba, Japan Offices, Service Center & Warehousing Owned 87,000 Tokyo, Japan Offices & Warehousing Leased 24,000 Seoul, Korea Offices & Warehousing Leased 22,000 Utrecht, Netherlands Offices & Warehousing Leased 16,000 Ponce, Puerto Rico Offices, Manufacturing & Warehousing Owned 213,000 Singapore Offices & Warehousing Leased 10,000 Barcelona, Spain Offices & Warehousing Leased 16,000 Baar, Switzerland Warehousing Leased 40,000 Winterthur, Switzerland Offices, Research & Development & Manufacturing Leased 265,000 Mnsingen, Switzerland Offices & Warehousing Owned 76,000 Swindon, United Kingdom Offices & Warehousing Leased 70,000 3,359,000 We believe the current facilities, including manufacturing, warehousing, research and development and office space, together with the planned expansions provide sufficient capacity to meet ongoing demands. Once a facility reaches 85 percent utilization, we examine alternatives for either expanding that facility or acquiring new facilities to meet our ongoing demands. In addition to the above, we maintain more than 100 other offices and warehouse facilities in more than 24 countries around the world, including the United States, Japan, Australia, France, Russia, India, Germany, Italy, Switzerland and China. We believe that all of the facilities and equipment are in good condition, well maintained and able to operate at present levels. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this report under Item 8. ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Not Applicable. 21 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT Part II ITEM 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the SWX Swiss Exchange under the symbol ZMH. The high and low sales prices for our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the calendar quarters of fiscal years 2006 and 2005 are set forth as follows: Quarterly High low Share Prices High Low Year Ended December 31, 2006: First Quarter $ 72.87 $ 64.87 Second Quarter $ 68.80 $ 55.68 Third Quarter $ 69.44 $ 52.20 Fourth Quarter $ 79.11 $ 66.93 Year Ended December 31, 2005: First Quarter $ 89.10 $ 74.25 Second Quarter $ 83.70 $ 72.71 Third Quarter $ 85.10 $ 67.62 Fourth Quarter $ 71.60 $ 60.19 We have not declared or paid dividends on our common stock since becoming a public company on August 6, 2001. Currently, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Our credit facility also restricts the payment of dividends under certain circumstances. The number of beneficial owners of our common stock on February 13, 2007 was approximately 466,200. On February 13, 2007, the closing price of the common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, was $84.18 per share. The information required by this Item concerning equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to Item 12 of this report. The following table summarizes repurchases of common stock settled during the three months ended December 31, 2006: Total Number of Shares Approximate Dollar Value of Purchased as Part of Shares that May Yet Be Total Number of Average Price Publicly Announced Plans Purchased Under Plans Shares Purchased Paid per Share or Programs(1) or Programs October 2006 9,951,500 365,212,620 November 2006 9,951,500 365,212,620 December 2006 2,194,300 $76.49 12,145,800 $1,197,361,995 Total 2,194,300 $76.49 12,145,800 $1,197,361,995 (1) In December 2005, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of common stock through December 31, 2007. In December 2006, our Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase of up to $1 billion of common stock through December 31, 2008. Prior to December 2005, we did not have a share repurchase program. 22 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The financial information for each of the past five years ended December 31, is set forth below (in millions, except per share amounts): Summary of Operations 2006 2005 2004 2003(1) 2002 Net sales $ 3,495.4 $ 3,286.1 $ 2,980.9 $ 1,901.0 $ 1,372.4 Net earnings 834.5 732.5 541.8 346.3 257.8 Pro forma net earnings assuming change in accounting principle for instruments is applied retroactively(2) 834.5 732.5 541.8 291.2 260.8 Earnings per common share Basic $ 3.43 $ 2.96 $ 2.22 $ 1.67 $ 1.33 Diluted 3.40 2.93 2.19 1.64 1.31 Pro forma earnings per common share assuming change in accounting principle for instruments is applied retroactively(2) Basic $ 1.40 $ 1.34 Diluted 1.38 1.33 Average common shares outstanding Basic 243.0 247.1 244.4 207.7 194.5 Diluted 245.4 249.8 247.8 211.2 196.8 Balance Sheet Data Total assets $ 5,974.4 $ 5,721.9 $ 5,695.5 $ 5,156.0 $ 858.9 Short term debt 27.5 101.3 156.7 Long term debt 99.6 81.6 624.0 1,007.8 Other long term obligations 323.4 348.3 420.9 352.6 91.8 Stockholders equity 4,920.5 4,682.8 3,942.5 3,143.3 366.3 (1) Includes the results of Centerpulse subsequent to October 2, 2003 and Centerpulse balance sheet data as of December 31, 2003. (2) Pro forma net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2003 are before the cumulative effect of an accounting change of $55.1 million. The year ended December 31, 2002 reflects the retroactive application of a new accounting method for instruments. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed the method of accounting for instruments which we own and are used by orthopaedic surgeons during total joint replacement and other surgical procedures. Instruments are recognized as long lived assets and are included in property, plant and equipment and are depreciated using the straight line method based on estimated useful lives, determined principally in reference to associated product life cycles, primarily five years. In prior periods, undeployed instruments were carried as a prepaid cost and recognized in selling, general and administrative expense in the year in which the instruments were placed into service. 23 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. This discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements. OVERVIEW We are a global leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of reconstructive orthopaedic implants, including joint and dental, spinal implants, trauma products and related orthopaedic surgical products (sometimes referred to in this report as OSP). We also provide hospital focused consulting services to help member institutions design, implement and manage successful orthopaedic programs of distinction, which account for less than one percent of sales. Reconstructive orthopaedic implants restore joint function lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and elbows. Dental reconstructive implants restore function and aesthetics in patients that have lost teeth due to trauma or disease. Spinal implants are utilized by orthopaedic surgeons and neurosurgeons in the treatment of degenerative diseases, deformities and trauma in all regions of the spine. Trauma products are devices used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to support the bodys natural healing process. OSP include supplies and instruments designed to aid in orthopaedic surgical procedures and post operation rehabilitation. Through our consulting services, we provide hospitals and other orthopaedic practices resource capabilities in the areas of business development, marketing, in/outpatient rehab practice, clinical pathways, care mapping and space design, community relations, customer service, delivery models, cost accounting, staff utilization and more in order to improve the profit environment. We have operations in more than 24 countries and market products in more than 100 countries. We manage operations through three reportable geographic segments the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. We believe the following developments or trends are important in understanding our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2006. Demand (Volume and Mix) Trends Increased volume and changes in the mix of product sales contributed 6 percentage points of 2006 sales growth, which is 3 percentage points below the rate of growth from 2005 compared to 2004. A slowdown in procedure growth at acute care institutions in our largest operating segment as well as first half competitive losses in hips contributed to the slower growth in product sales. We believe the market for orthopaedic procedure volume on a global basis will continue to rise at mid to high single digit rates driven by an aging global population, obesity, proven clinical benefits, new material technologies, advances in surgical techniques (such as our MIS Procedures and Technologies) and more active lifestyles, among other factors. In addition, the continued shift in demand to premium products, such as Longevity, Durasul and Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylenes, Trabecular Metal Technology products, high flex knees, knee revision products and porous hip stems, continue to positively affect sales growth. For example, during 2006, sales of products incorporating Trabecular Metal Technology were over $165 million, a year over year increase of over 40 percent. We believe the most effective way to address rising health care costs without affecting patient access or treatment options is a systemic approach. This year we acquired HMI which specializes in helping hospitals to improve their business processes. HMI will be part of a new Zimmer business unit specifically focused on health economic issues. This will include: developing new clinical/economic data; expanding our current Pathways Program; and helping to develop improved office management processes and technology. We believe innovative surgical approaches will continue to significantly affect the orthopaedics industry. We continued our significant progress in the development and introduction of MIS Implants, Procedures and technologies. During the year ended December 31, 2006, The Zimmer Institute and its satellite locations trained nearly 2,000 surgeons on advanced techniques, including over 1,300 surgeons on MIS Procedures. Pricing Trends Selling prices were up modestly during 2006 compared with a 1 percentage point increase during 2005 when compared to 2004. Asia Pacific selling prices decreased 2 percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to a negligible change in 2005 when compared to 2004. Effective April 1, 2006, the Japanese government reduced reimbursement rates, which contributed to a reduction of our selling prices in Japan by approximately 4 percent during 2006. Japan represents approximately 8 percent of our sales. Effective January 1, 2007, the Japanese government reduced reimbursement rates again. We estimate this action will affect Japan sales negatively by approximately 3.5 percent for 2007. The Americas experienced a 2 percent increase in selling prices during 2006, compared to a 1 percent increase in 2005. In Europe, selling prices for 2006 decreased 1 percent, the same decrease we saw in 2005 as compared to 2004. Within Europe, Germany, which constitutes approximately 6 percent of our sales, experienced a 4 percent decrease in selling prices in 2006, as a result of reductions in government implant reimbursement rates. The United Kingdom, which comprises 3 percent of our sales, reported a similar 4 percent decline in selling prices for the year. The price declines in Germany and the United Kingdom were partially offset by increased selling prices in other European markets. With continuing pressure from governmental healthcare cost containment efforts and group purchasing organizations, we 24 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT estimate global sales could be adversely affected by 1 to 2 percent in 2007 due to changes in selling prices. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates For 2006, foreign currency exchange rates had a modest negative effect on global sales growth. A weaker U.S. Dollar compared to most foreign currencies in the three month period ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same 2005 period, increased sales by 2 percentage points. If foreign currency exchange rates remain consistent with the year end rates, we estimate that the weaker dollar versus foreign currency exchange rates will have a positive effect in 2007 of approximately 0.8 percent on sales. We address currency risk through regular operating and financing activities, and under appropriate circumstances and subject to proper authorization, through the use of forward contracts solely for managing foreign currency volatility and risk. Changes to foreign currency exchange rates affect sales growth, but due to offsetting gains/losses on hedge contracts, which are recorded in cost of products sold, the effect on net earnings in the near term is expected to be minimal. New Product Sales New products, which we define as products or stock keeping units (SKUs) introduced within the prior 36 month period to a particular market, accounted for 24 percent, or $828 million, of 2006 sales. Adoption rates for new technologies are a key indicator of performance in our industry. Our sales have grown with the introduction of new products, such as the Gender Solutions Knee, Durom Acetabular System with Metasul Technology, Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Prosthesis, Versys Epoch Composite Hip Stem, Acetabular Revision system, Zimmer NCB Plating System, Anatomical Shoulder Inverse/Reverse Systems and Zimmer Universal Locking Plates. We expect new products in our current pipeline will favorably affect our future operating performance. Products we expect to contribute to new product sales in 2007 include, in addition to those listed above, an MIS Porolock Stem, Durom Hemi Femoral with Metasul Technology, Porolock Titanium Surface Stem with Kinectivtm Technology, Natural Knee II High Flex Gender, NexGen LPS High Flex Mobile Bearing Knee, Dynesys Top Loading Dynamic Stabilization and BRIGITtm Bone Resection Instrument Guide. Strategic Initiatives ENABLE, INNOVATE and GROW Our refined corporate strategies now focus on our ability to ENABLE, to INNOVATE, and to GROW. Each of these corporate strategies has three initiatives linked with it; in total these initiatives will guide our business plan for the foreseeable future. We believe these initiatives will enable us to effectively respond to key trends in the orthopaedics industry while continuing to build upon our strengths. Some of these are further discussed below. We will ENABLE growth by, among other actions, reaching out to new audiences. Historically our focus has been primarily on the surgeon health care provider and the orthopaedic wing of the hospital. More decision makers are now involved. These include consumers with specific focus on special consumer groups such as women; the obese; ethnic groups; age specific groups; governments; general practitioners and nurses; insurance companies and other payors; and professional societies. A Direct To Patient campaign we are conducting in the United States to support the Gender Solutions Knee product launch, and the Back in the Groovetm Community Healthcare Program aimed at providing African American arthritis sufferers increased access to information about knee and hip replacement options, are examples of how we can reach out to these new audiences. We will INNOVATE new and unique solutions for orthopaedic patients. Biologics is the new frontier of orthopaedics with enormous potential to provide new treatment approaches for patients. We already have a strong foundation in this area. For example, through an agreement with Revivicor, Inc. we obtained exclusive worldwide distribution rights for genetically engineered tissues for regenerative therapies, including soft tissue biological repair and replacement. In partnership with ISTO Technologies, we are developing cartilage regeneration and cell based therapies called Neocartilage Technology. We will GROW through appropriately planned investment. Infrastructure investments are planned to support future growth which include but are not limited to, the substantial investments we are making to our facilities around the world. They also include improvements to our organizational infrastructure, such as vertical integration in sourcing; expanded quality systems; Information Technology efficiency; leading edge compliance; state of the art automation; and advanced education. Acquisitions of Centerpulse and Implex We are near completion of our integration plans for Centerpulse and Implex. We incurred an aggregate of $322 million in acquisition and integration costs and expenses from October 2003 through December 2006. Although the vast majority of the integration activities are behind us, a few items still remain. Some of those items include continued IT systems conversions, continued manufacturing in sourcing and some warehouse consolidations in a few countries. New Accounting Pronouncements On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)). We adopted this accounting standard using the modified prospective method and will not restate prior periods. Share based payment expense had the effect of reducing diluted earnings per share by $0.22 during the year ended December 31, 2006. Our share based payment expense is primarily derived from awards of stock options and equity share units. We did not grant any equity share units until 2006. Prior to January 1, 2006 under Accounting Principle Board Opinion No. 25 (APB 25), share based payment expense was not significant because the exercise price of the stock options we granted generally equaled the market price 25 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT of the underlying stock on the measurement date of the stock options and no equity share units had been awarded. Share based payment expense is a non cash expense and therefore had no effect on our net cash flows. As of December 31, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS 158). This Statement requires recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the statement of financial position. As a result, our liabilities increased by $31.3 million. However, this had no effect on our results of operations or cash flows. For more information on the effect of this standard, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this report under Item 8. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Net Sales by Operating Segment The following table presents net sales by operating segment and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Volume/ Foreign 2006 2005 % Inc Mix Price Exchange Americas $ 2,076.5 $ 1,941.8 7 % 5 % 2 % % Europe 931.1 874.8 6 7 (1 ) Asia Pacific 487.8 469.5 4 9 (2 ) (3 ) $ 3,495.4 $ 3,286.1 6 7 (1 ) Foreign Exchange as used in the tables in this report represents the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on sales growth. Net Sales by Product Category The following table presents net sales by product category and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Volume/ Foreign 2006 2005 % Inc Mix Price Exchange Reconstructive Knees $ 1,461.5 $ 1,366.2 7 % 7 % % % Hips 1,189.4 1,140.6 4 5 (1 ) Dental 179.0 148.1 21 16 4 1 Extremities 77.6 66.1 17 13 4 Total 2,907.5 2,721.0 7 7 Trauma 194.7 179.8 8 7 1 Spine 177.4 160.4 11 10 1 OSP and other 215.8 224.9 (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) Total $ 3,495.4 $ 3,286.1 6 7 (1 ) The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line including the NexGen LPS Flex Gender Knee, NexGen CR Flex Gender Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components and the NexGen MIS Stemmed Tibial Plate, as well as Prolong Highly Cross linked Polyethylene articular surface components, led knee sales. In addition, strong growth in the Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee and the Innex Total Knee System was offset, in part, by declining sales of the Natural Knee II System. Growth in porous stems, including the new Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Stem, Zimmer M/ L Taper Stem, and the CLS Spotorno Stem from the CLS Hip System led hip sales. Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups and Metasul LDHtm Large Diameter Heads experienced strong growth offset by declining sales of Cemented Stems. Orthobiologicals and prosthetic implants, including strong growth of the Tapered Screw Vent and Internal Hex Implant Systems, led dental sales. Trabecular Metal Shoulder Stems led extremities sales. Zimmer Periarticular Plates, the Zimmer NCB Plating System, the Sirus IM Nail and I.T.S.T. Intertrochanteric/ Subtrochanteric Fixation System experienced strong growth while sales of Compression Hip Screws continued to decline. The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System and Spinal Trabecular Metal Spacers led the growth in spine sales while sales of cages for interbody fusion declined. As a result of the termination of the OrthoPAT5 Autotransfusion System distribution arrangement, sales for this device fell by over $25 million, 5 Trademark of Haemonetics Corporation. 26 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT accounting for the decline in OSP product sales. The distribution arrangement ended February, 2006. The following table presents estimated* 2006 global market size and market share information (dollars in billions): Global Global Zimmer Zimmer Market Market Market Market Size % Growth** Share Position Reconstructive Knees $ 5.2 8 % 28 % 1 Hips 4.5 6 27 1 Dental 2.2 22 8 4 Extremities 0.4 13 19 2 Total $ 12.3 10 24 1 Trauma $ 3.3 10 6 5 Spine*** $ 5.3 15 3 6 * Estimates based on company annual filings, Wall Street equity research and Zimmer management ** Excludes the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on sales growth *** Spine includes related orthobiologics Americas Net Sales The following table presents Americas net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, % Inc 2006 2005 (Dec) Reconstructive Knees $ 940.8 $ 880.5 7 % Hips 579.4 538.1 8 Dental 105.4 88.8 19 Extremities 54.2 46.2 17 Total 1,679.8 1,553.6 8 Trauma 117.1 107.5 9 Spine 146.9 132.7 11 OSP and other 132.7 148.0 (10 ) Total $ 2,076.5 $ 1,941.8 7 The period was characterized by balanced growth in hips and knees augmented by strong growth in other product lines. Growth in porous stems, including the new Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Stem and the Zimmer M/ L Taper Stem, led hip sales. Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups, and Metasul LDH Heads experienced strong growth offset by declining sales of Cemented Stems. The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line including the NexGen LPS Flex Gender Knee, NexGen CR Flex Gender Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components and the NexGen MIS Stemmed Tibial Plate as well as Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene articular surface components led knee sales offset, in part, by declining sales of the Natural Knee II System. Dental, extremities and spine experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. The Tapered Screw Vent Implant System led dental sales. The Trabecular Metal Shoulder Stems led extremities sales. The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System and Spinal Trabecular Metal Spacers led spine sales while trauma sales returned to solid growth behind Zimmer Periarticular Plates, the Zimmer NCB Plating system, the Sirus IM Nail and I.T.S.T. Intertrochanteric/ Subtrochanteric Fixation System. Europe Net Sales The following table presents Europe net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Inc Reconstructive Knees $ 353.2 $ 327.0 8 % Hips 418.3 410.3 2 Dental 47.2 40.1 18 Extremities 18.0 13.7 31 Total 836.7 791.1 6 Trauma 38.1 33.1 15 Spine 24.8 22.4 11 OSP and other 31.5 28.2 12 Total $ 931.1 $ 874.8 6 Strong knee sales continued to drive growth in Europe. Eight percent volume and mix growth was offset by a 2 percent drop in average selling prices for knees in Europe. The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line and the Innex Total Knee System led knee sales. Hip sales growth was negatively affected by reduced selling prices in Germany, Italy, Portugal and the United Kingdom. The CLS Spotorno Stem, Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, Metasul LDH Heads and Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups led hip sales. Dental, extremities, trauma, spine and OSP again experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. Dental sales were led by the Tapered Screw Vent Implant System. The Anatomical Shoulder System led extremities sales. Zimmer Periarticular Plates and the Zimmer NCB Plating System led trauma sales. Trabecular Metal Spacers led spine sales. Strong sales of wound management products contributed to the OSP sales performance. 27 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT Asia Pacific Net Sales The following table presents Asia Pacific net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Inc Reconstructive Knees $ 167.5 $ 158.7 6 % Hips 191.7 192.2 Dental 26.4 19.2 37 Extremities 5.4 6.2 (13 ) Total 391.0 376.3 4 Trauma 39.5 39.2 1 Spine 5.7 5.3 9 OSP 51.6 48.7 6 Total $ 487.8 $ 469.5 4 A stronger U.S. dollar in the first half of the year resulted in a negative 3 percent effect on sales for Asia Pacific, including a 3 percent drop in knee sales and a negative 4 percent impact on hip sales. A reduction in reimbursement prices for orthopaedic implants in Japan went into effect April 1, 2006. Together with other price changes in this segment this action led to a negative 2 percent effect on sales, including negative 2 percent on knees and negative 4 percent on hips. Volume and mix growth more than offset the negative effects of price and currency in knees while netting out to result in flat sales in hips. Strong knee sales drove growth in Asia Pacific. The NexGen CR Flex Knee and the NexGen LPS Flex Knee led knee sales. The continued conversion to porous stems, including the VerSys Hip System and the CLS Spotorno Stem led hip sales. Sales of Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners and Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups also exhibited strong growth. Dental experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. The Tapered Screw Vent Implant System and the Spline Implant System led dental sales. Extremity sales were impacted by lower sales of the Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder System. Strong powered instrument sales contributed to the OSP sales performance. Gross Profit Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 77.7 percent in 2006, compared to 77.5 percent in 2005. The following table reconciles the gross margin for 2005 to 2006: Year ended December 31, 2005 gross margin 77.5 % Increased selling prices 0.1 Share based compensation (0.3 ) Other 0.4 Year ended December 31, 2006 gross margin 77.7 % Higher average selling prices in our largest operating segment offset by lower prices in Europe and Asia Pacific contributed to the modest improvement in gross margin. Other primary contributors to the improvement in gross profit margin were the net favorable effect of year over year changes in foreign currency hedge gains and losses and manufacturing productivity gains offset by underlying exposure gains and losses, increased inventory charges due to the impact of our newer products on aging product lines and increased royalty expenses as a percentage of sales due to a higher mix of royalty bearing sales. Operating Expenses Research and Development, or R&D, as a percentage of net sales was 5.4 percent for 2006, compared to 5.3 percent in 2005. R&D increased to $188.3 million for 2006 from $175.5 million in 2005, reflecting increased spending on projects focused on our redefined corporate strategies and $8.7 million of share based payment expense. In 2006, we expanded our Biologics group based in Austin, Texas. We continued working with our third party partners on genetically engineered tissues for regenerative therapies, including soft tissue biological repair and replacement. We also worked to develop sophisticated tools for surgeons. The Zimmer BRIGIT Bone Resection Instrument Guide is an example of these sophisticated tools. Other examples include new sensor technologies, Computer Assisted Solutions personalized for specific surgeons, digital instruments, and digital/electronic templating. Currently, our product pipeline consists of approximately 100 active new product development projects. We are also investing in additional Gender implant designs following on the successful launch of our Zimmer Gender Solutions Knee, MIS Procedures and Technologies, material technologies, including woven materials and drug/device combinations and intelligence technologies, including sensor technology. New products, which we define as those introduced into a market in the preceding thirty six months, accounted for approximately 24 percent of net sales in 2006 compared with 21 percent in 2005. In the second half of 2006, we launched twenty new products. Twelve of those represented major launches, such as the Gender Solutions Knee, DuromAcetabular System with Metasul Technology, VerSys Epoch Composite Hip Stem and the Trabecular Metal Acetabular Revision System. We continue to target our R&D spending at the high end of what we believe to be an industry average of 4 6 percent. Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, as a percentage of net sales was 38.8 percent for 2006, compared to 38.3 percent in 2005. Share based compensation added $55.9 million of expense for the year ended December 31, 2006, or an additional 1.6 percentage points when compared with 2005. Absent share based compensation, SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased. The decrease was primarily due to sales growth, realized expense synergies and well controlled spending. Acquisition, integration and other items for 2006 were $6.1 million compared to $56.6 million in 2005, and included $27.7 million of income related to three unrelated matters the sale of the former Centerpulse Austin land and facilities for a gain of $5.1 million and the favorable settlement of two pre acquisition contingent liabilities. A reduction in product liability accounted for $4.9 million of income. Expense items included a $13.4 million impairment charge for certain Centerpulse tradename and trademark intangibles based principally in our Europe operating segment, $8.8 million of integration consulting expenses, $3.3 million of employee 28 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT severance and retention costs, $3.0 million of costs related to integrating our information technology systems, $2.9 million of in process research and development, $2.5 million of personnel expenses and travel for full time integration team members and $4.8 million of other expenses. Operating Profit, Income Taxes and Net Earnings Operating profit for 2006 increased 10 percent to $1,165.2 million, from $1,055.0 million in 2005. Increased sales, improved gross profit margins, realized operating expense synergies, controlled operating expenses and decreased acquisition and integration expenses offset $76.0 million of share based compensation expense to drive the increase in operating profit. The effective tax rate on earnings before income taxes and minority interest decreased to 28.6 percent for 2006, down from 29.5 percent in 2005. The reasons for the lower effective tax rate were the implementation of several European restructuring initiatives, the successful negotiation of a lower ongoing Swiss tax rate (from approximately 24 percent to 12.5 percent) and the continued expansion of operations in lower tax jurisdictions, including Puerto Rico. Net earnings increased 14 percent to $834.5 million for 2006, compared to $732.5 million in 2005. The increase was due to higher operating profit, lower acquisition, integration and other expenses, decreased interest expense due to a lower average outstanding debt balance and a lower effective tax rate, offset by $54.5 million of share based compensation expense, net of tax. Basic and diluted earnings per share increased 16 percent to $3.43 and $3.40, respectively, from $2.96 and $2.93 in 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Net Sales by Operating Segment The following table presents net sales by operating segment and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Volume/ Foreign 2005 2004 % Inc Mix Price Exchange Americas $ 1,941.8 $ 1,741.3 12 % 10 % 1 % 1 % Europe 874.8 808.3 8 9 (1 ) Asia Pacific 469.5 431.3 9 8 1 $ 3,286.1 $ 2,980.9 10 9 1 Foreign Exchange as used in the tables in this report represents the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on sales growth. Net Sales by Product Category The following table presents net sales by product category and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Volume/ Foreign 2005 2004 % Inc Mix Price Exchange Reconstructive Knees $ 1,366.2 $ 1,194.5 14 % 13 % 1 % % Hips 1,140.6 1,079.0 6 5 1 Dental 148.1 124.7 19 16 2 1 Extremities 66.1 58.1 14 10 4 Total 2,721.0 2,456.3 11 10 1 Trauma 179.8 172.9 4 2 2 Spine 160.4 134.2 20 19 1 OSP 224.9 217.5 3 2 1 Total $ 3,286.1 $ 2,980.9 10 9 1 The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line including the NexGen LPS Flex Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components, the NexGen CR Flex Knee, the NexGen Rotating Hinge Knee and the NexGen LCCK Revision Knee led knee sales. In addition, the Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee and the Innex Total Knee System exhibited strong growth. Growth in porous stems, including the Fiber Metal Taper Stem from the VerSys Hip System, Zimmer M/ L Taper Stem, the CLS Spotorno Stem from the CLS Hip System, and the Alloclassic Zweymller Hip System led hip sales. Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups, Durom Hip Resurfacing System products internationally, and Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners also had strong growth. Orthobiologicals and prosthetic implants, including strong growth of the Tapered Screw Vent Implant System, led dental sales. The Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder Solution led extremities sales. Zimmer Periarticular Plates, Zimmer Plates and Screws and I.T.S.T. 29 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT Intertrochanteric/Subtrochanteric Fixation System led trauma sales. The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System, the ST360 Spinal Fixation System and Spinal Trabecular Metal Spacers led spine sales. The growth of the OrthoPAT Autotransfusion System and wound management products led OSP sales. On August 30, 2005, Haemonetics Corporation announced they were ending an exclusive distribution agreement with us. We sold the OrthoPAT Autotransfusion System through February 2006. Americas Net Sales The following table presents Americas net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % Inc (Dec) Reconstructive Knees $ 880.5 $ 762.0 16 % Hips 538.1 499.6 8 Dental 88.8 75.3 18 Extremities 46.2 41.1 12 Total 1,553.6 1,378.0 13 Trauma 107.5 105.7 2 Spine 132.7 111.0 20 OSP 148.0 146.6 1 Total $ 1,941.8 $ 1,741.3 12 Strong knee sales drove growth in the Americas. The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line, including the NexGen LPS Flex Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components, the NexGen LCCK Revision Knee and the NexGen CR Flex Knee led knee sales. The Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee also made a strong contribution. We also benefited from strong hip sales in a relatively softer market compared to the prior year. Growth in porous stems, including growth of the Zimmer M/ L Taper Stem and Alloclassic Zweymller Hip System led hip sales, but were partially offset by weaker sales of cemented stems. Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups and Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners also exhibited strong growth. Dental, extremities and spine experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. The Tapered Screw Vent Implant System led dental sales. The Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder System led extremities sales. The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System and the ST360 Spinal Fixation System led spine sales. Europe Net Sales The following table presents Europe net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % Inc Reconstructive Knees $ 327.0 $ 292.0 12 % Hips 410.3 398.4 3 Dental 40.1 34.8 15 Extremities 13.7 11.6 20 Total 791.1 736.8 7 Trauma 33.1 29.5 12 Spine 22.4 19.8 13 OSP 28.2 22.2 27 Total $ 874.8 $ 808.3 8 Strong knee sales drove growth in Europe. The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line and the Innex Total Knee System led knee sales. Hip sales growth was negatively affected by reduced selling prices in Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal and the United Kingdom. The CLS Spotorno Stem, Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, Durom Hip Resurfacing System and Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups led hip sales. Dental, extremities, trauma, spine and OSP experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. Dental sales were led by the Tapered Screw Vent Implant System. The Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder System led extremities sales. Cable Ready Cable Grip System and Zimmer Periarticular Plates led trauma sales. The Silhouettetm Spinal System(7) and Trabecular Metal Spacers led spine sales. Wound management products led OSP sales. Asia Pacific Net Sales The following table presents Asia Pacific net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % Inc Reconstructive Knees $ 158.7 $ 140.5 13 % Hips 192.2 181.0 6 Dental 19.2 14.6 31 Extremities 6.2 5.4 15 Total 376.3 341.5 10 Trauma 39.2 37.7 4 Spine 5.3 3.4 57 OSP 48.7 48.7 Total $ 469.5 $ 431.3 9 Strong knee and hip sales drove growth in Asia Pacific. NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components, the NexGen CR Flex Knee and the NexGen LPS Flex Knee led knee sales. The continued conversion to porous stems, including the VerSys Hip System, the Alloclassic Zweymller Hip 7 The Silhouette Spinal System is licensed from Spinal Innovations, LLC. 30 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT System and the CLS Spotorno Stem led hip sales, partially offset by weaker sales of revision stems. Sales of Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners and Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups also exhibited strong growth. Dental, extremities and spine experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. The Tapered Screw Vent Implant System and the Spline Implant System led dental sales. The Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder System led extremities sales. The ST360 Spinal System led spine sales. Gross Profit Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 77.5 percent in 2005, compared to 73.8 percent in 2004. The following table reconciles the gross margin for 2004 to 2005: Year ended December 31, 2004 gross margin 73.8 % Reduction in inventory step up charge 1.8 Improved inventory management 0.8 Increased selling prices 0.2 Resolution of certain legal and other matters 0.2 Other 0.7 Year ended December 31, 2005 gross margin 77.5 % Inventory step up costs in the year ended December 31, 2005, decreased to $5.0 million, or 0.2 percent of sales, compared to $59.4 million, or 2.0 percent of sales, in 2004. We define inventory step up as the difference between the cost basis and the fair value of acquired Centerpulse and Implex inventories. Other primary contributors to the improvement in gross profit margin were reduced inventory charges due to improved inventory management, increased selling prices, favorable resolution of certain legal and other matters and reduced royalties. Royalty expenses as a percentage of sales declined due to a favorable mix of non royalty bearing sales. Operating Expenses R&D as a percentage of net sales was 5.3 percent for 2005, compared to 5.6 percent in 2004. R&D increased to $175.5 million for 2005 from $166.7 million in 2004, reflecting increased spending on projects focused on areas of strategic significance, including orthobiologics. In 2005, we doubled the number of internal people and project related orthobiological investments. At the end of 2005, our product pipeline consisted of more than 160 active projects. We also invested in MIS Procedures and Technologies, material technologies, including woven materials and drug/device combinations and intelligence technologies, including sensor technology. We delivered more than 79 projects to the market in 2005. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was 38.3 percent for 2005, compared to 39.9 percent in 2004. The decrease was primarily due to sales growth and realized expense synergies. In addition, lower product liability claims and well controlled general and administrative spending reduced SG&A as a percentage of sales. Acquisition, integration and other expenses for 2005 were $56.6 million compared to $81.1 million in 2004, and included $13.3 million of employee severance and retention expenses, $12.7 million of sales agent contract termination expenses, $6.9 million of costs related to integrating our information technology systems, $6.2 million of facility relocation expenses, $5.6 million of integration consulting expenses, $3.2 million related to the impairment loss on the Austin facility, $3.1 million of personnel expenses and travel for full time integration team members and $5.6 million of other expenses. Operating Profit, Income Taxes and Net Earnings Operating profit for 2005 increased 38 percent to $1,055.0 million, from $763.2 million in 2004. Increased sales, improved gross profit margins, realized operating expense synergies, controlled operating expenses and decreased acquisition and integration expenses drove operating profit. The effective tax rate on earnings before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle increased to 29.5 percent for 2005, from 25.9 percent in 2004. The provision for income taxes in 2004 included a $34.5 million benefit (4.7 percent) as a result of revaluing deferred taxes of acquired Centerpulse operations due to a reduction in the ongoing Swiss tax rate. Even without this one time benefit, we realized a lower effective tax rate for 2005. The reasons for the lower effective tax rate were the implementation of several European restructuring initiatives, the successful negotiation of a lower ongoing Swiss tax rate (from approximately 24 percent to 12.5 percent) and the continued expansion of operations in lower tax jurisdictions, including Puerto Rico. In 2004, the successful negotiation of the lower Swiss tax rate was effective for the last five months of the year, whereas in 2005 the benefit was recognized for the entire year. Net earnings increased 35 percent to $732.5 million for 2005, compared to $541.8 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher operating profit and decreased interest expense due to a lower average outstanding debt balance, offset by a higher effective tax rate. Basic and diluted earnings per share increased 33 and 34 percent to $2.96 and $2.93, respectively, from $2.22 and $2.19 in 2004. OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT Management evaluates operating segment performance based upon segment operating profit exclusive of operating expenses pertaining to global operations and corporate expenses, share based compensation expense, acquisition, integration and other expenses, inventory step up, in process research and development write offs and intangible asset amortization expense. Global operations include research, development engineering, medical education, brand management, corporate legal, finance, and human resource functions, and U.S. and Puerto Rico based manufacturing operations and logistics. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated from segment operating profit. For more information regarding our segments, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. 31 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT The following table sets forth the operating profit as a percentage of sales by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004: Percent of net sales Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Americas 53.1 % 52.6 % 51.3 % Europe 41.6 36.3 35.1 Asia Pacific 47.5 45.2 42.3 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 In the Americas, operating profit as a percentage of sales increased due to the effective control of operating expenses, including realized expense synergies and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. European operating profit as a percentage of net sales improved due to improved gross margin and the realization of expense synergies related to the elimination of redundant functions and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. Asia Pacific operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to product category mix, and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 In the Americas, operating profit as a percentage of sales increased due to an improved product category mix and controlled operating expenses, including realized expense synergies and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. European operating profit as a percentage of net sales improved due to the realization of expense synergies related to the elimination of redundant functions and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. Asia Pacific operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to an improved product category mix, lower royalty expenses as a percentage of sales and improved inventory management. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash flows provided by operating activities were $1,040.7 million in 2006 compared to $878.2 million in 2005. The principal source of cash was net earnings of $834.5 million. Non cash charges included in net earnings accounted for another $273.4 million of operating cash. All other items of operating cash flows accounted for a use of $67.2 million of cash pertaining principally to investments in working capital in support of sales growth. We continue to focus on working capital management. At December 31, 2006, we had 55 days of sales outstanding in trade accounts receivable, an increase of 4 days when compared to December 31, 2005. A modest slowdown in payments from health care institutions occurred in all reporting segments. At December 31, 2006, we had 277 days of inventory on hand, favorable to December 31, 2005 by 6 days. Our inventory levels have improved from a third quarter high of 310 days as a result of seasonal demand patterns and internal efforts to redeploy inventory to eliminate unnecessary safety stocks and improve inventory turns. Cash flows used in investing activities were $287.0 million in 2006, compared to $311.1 million in 2005. In 2006, we made a final payment of $28.1 million pursuant to the terms of the Implex acquisition agreement for contingent earn out payments. This compares with a payment of $44.1 million in 2005. Additions to instruments during 2006 were $126.2 million compared to $150.0 million in 2005. Certain of our 2006 product launches such as our Gender Solutions Knee demanded lower relative instrument purchases as we were able to leverage existing instrument systems for this new product. In 2007, we expect to spend approximately $120 $130 million on instruments to support new products, sales growth and MIS Procedures. We have realized benefits from in sourcing instruments at a lower cost. Additions to other property, plant and equipment during 2006 were $142.1 million compared to $105.3 million in 2005. Increases were related to facility expansions in Warsaw, Indiana; Ponce, Puerto Rico; and Parsippany, New Jersey. These facility expansions improved working conditions and capabilities for our research and development organization, and responded to increased demand, the transfer of production to our other manufacturing sites as a result of the closure of the Austin, Texas facility and the tripling of Trabecular Metal Technology production capacity. During 2007, we expect to purchase approximately $170 $180 million in other property, plant and equipment, as a result of ongoing facility expansions in Warsaw, Indiana; Ponce, Puerto Rico; Winterthur, Switzerland; and investment in new information technology systems and further productivity related initiatives. Cash flows used in financing activities were $730.7 million for 2006, compared to $484.6 million in 2005. In December 2005, our Board of Directors approved a $1 billion stock repurchase program. We repurchased $798.8 million of our common stock in 2006 as compared with $4.1 million in 2005. In December 2006, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, authorizing us to repurchase up to an additional $1 billion of our common stock through December 31, 2008. We utilized cash generated from operating activities and $41.3 million in cash proceeds received from employee stock compensation plans to fund the repurchases. We expect to use excess cash to fund future purchases, if any, under these programs. We have a five year $1,350 million revolving, multi currency, senior unsecured credit facility maturing March 31, 2010 (the Senior Credit Facility). We had $99.6 million outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility at December 31, 2006, and an availability of $1,250.4 million. The $99.6 million is for use in Japan and carries a low interest rate. The Senior Credit Facility contains a provision by which we can increase the line to $1,750 million. We and certain of our wholly owned foreign and domestic subsidiaries are the borrowers, and our wholly 32 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT owned domestic subsidiaries are the guarantors, of the Senior Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility are used for general corporate purposes and bear interest at a LIBOR based rate plus an applicable margin determined by reference to our senior unsecured long term credit rating and the amounts drawn under the Senior Credit Facility, at an alternate base rate, or at a fixed rate determined through a competitive bid process. The Senior Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default for an unsecured financing arrangement, including, among other things, limitations on consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. Financial covenants include a maximum leverage ratio of 3.0 to 1.0 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.5 to 1.0. If we fall below an investment grade credit rating, additional restrictions would result, including restrictions on investments, payment of dividends and stock repurchases. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Senior Credit Facility as of December 31, 2006. Commitments under the Senior Credit Facility are subject to certain fees, including a facility and a utilization fee. The Senior Credit Facility is rated BBB+ by Standard & Poors Ratings Services and is not rated by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. We also have available uncommitted credit facilities totaling $60.9 million. Management believes that cash flows from operations, together with available borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility, are sufficient to meet our expected working capital, capital expenditure and debt service needs. Should investment opportunities arise, we believe that our earnings, balance sheet and cash flows will allow us to obtain additional capital, if necessary. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We have entered into contracts with various third parties in the normal course of business which will require future payments. The following table illustrates our contractual obligations (in millions): 2008 2010 and and 2012 and Contractual Obligations Total 2007 2009 2011 Thereafter Long term debt $ 99.6 $ $ $ 99.6 $ Operating leases 104.3 24.2 34.4 20.6 25.1 Purchase Obligations 22.1 21.1 1.0 Other long term liabilities 323.4 82.3 19.4 221.7 Total contractual obligations $ 549.4 $ 45.3 $ 117.7 $ 139.6 $ 246.8 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our financial results are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods. Significant accounting policies which require managements judgment are discussed below. Excess Inventory and Instruments We must determine as of each balance sheet date how much, if any, of our inventory may ultimately prove to be unsaleable or unsaleable at our carrying cost. Similarly, we must also determine if instruments on hand will be put to productive use or remain undeployed as a result of excess supply. Reserves are established to effectively adjust inventory and instruments to net realizable value. To determine the appropriate level of reserves, we evaluate current stock levels in relation to historical and expected patterns of demand for all of our products and instrument systems and components. The basis for the determination is generally the same for all inventory and instrument items and categories except for work in progress inventory, which is recorded at cost. Obsolete or discontinued items are generally destroyed and completely written off. Management evaluates the need for changes to valuation reserves based on market conditions, competitive offerings and other factors on a regular basis. Income Taxes We estimate income tax expense and income tax liabilities and assets by taxable jurisdiction. Realization of deferred tax assets in each taxable jurisdiction is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income sufficient to realize the benefits. We evaluate deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and provide valuation allowances if it is determined to be more likely than not that the deferred tax benefit will not be realized. Federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the U.S. We operate within numerous taxing jurisdictions. We are subject to regulatory review or audit in virtually all of those jurisdictions and those reviews and audits may require extended periods of time to resolve. We make use of all available information and make reasoned judgments regarding matters requiring interpretation in establishing tax expense, liabilities and reserves. We believe adequate provisions exist for income taxes for all periods and jurisdictions subject to review or audit. Commitments and Contingencies Accruals for product liability and other claims are established with internal and external legal counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for claims, related fees and for claims incurred but not reported. We use an actuarial model to assist management in determining an appropriate level of accruals for product liability claims. Historical patterns of claim loss development over time are statistically analyzed to arrive at factors which are then applied to loss estimates in the actuarial model. The amounts established equate to less than 5% of total liabilities and represent managements best estimate of the ultimate costs that we will incur under the various contingencies. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually, or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate the carrying value of finite life intangible assets whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be 33 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT recoverable. Significant assumptions are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, most notably estimated future cash flows generated by these assets. As such, these fair valuation measurements use significant unobservable inputs as defined under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. Changes to these assumptions could require us to record impairment charges on these assets. Share based Payment We account for share based payment expense in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R). Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R), share based payment expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value of share based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating the expected life of stock options and the expected volatility of our stock. Additionally, we must estimate the amount of share based awards that are expected to be forfeited. We estimate expected volatility based upon the implied volatility of our actively traded options. The expected life of stock options and estimated forfeitures are based upon our employees historical exercise and forfeiture behaviors. The assumptions used in determining the grant date fair value and the expected forfeitures represent managements best estimates. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Information about recent accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this report under Item 8. 34 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk MARKET RISK We are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and through the use of derivative financial instruments. We use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK We operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars. We manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. To reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. These forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. For contracts outstanding at December 31, 2006, we had obligations to purchase U.S. Dollars and sell Euros, Japanese Yen, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Australian Dollars and Korean Won or purchase Swiss Francs and sell U.S. Dollars at set maturity dates ranging from January 2007 through June 2009. The notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase U.S. Dollars at December 31, 2006 and 2005, were $1,374.3 million and $1,142 million, respectively. The notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase Swiss Francs at December 31, 2006, were $205 million. The weighted average contract rates outstanding are Euro:USD 1.29, USD:Swiss Franc 1.20, USD:Japanese Yen 106, British Pound:USD 1.82, USD:Canadian Dollar 1.15, Australian Dollar:USD 0.74 and USD:Korean Won 954. We maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. Our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. On this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. As part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2006, indicated that, if the U.S. Dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and Korean Won, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2009, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $73.7 million, $21.4 million, $18.9 million, $13.8 million, $6.5 million, $6.9 million and $2.3 million for the Euro, Swiss Franc, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and Korean Won contracts, respectively. Any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. Consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. We had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,672 million at December 31, 2006, primarily in Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen and Euros. Approximately $1,102 million of the net asset exposure at December 31, 2006 relates to goodwill recorded in the Europe and Asia Pacific geographic segments. We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entitys functional currency. As a result, foreign currency translation gains/losses recognized in earnings under SFAS No. 52, Foreign Currency Translation are generally offset with gain/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. COMMODITY PRICE RISK We purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. We enter into 12 to 24 month supply contracts, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. As part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. A 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 35 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT INTEREST RATE RISK In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. Presently, we invest our cash and equivalents in money market and investment grade short term debt instruments. The primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. Currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. Our principal exposure to interest rate risk arises from the variable rates associated with our credit facilities. We are subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed Senior Credit Facility and our uncommitted credit facilities. Presently, all of our debt outstanding bears interest at short term rates. We currently do not hedge our interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. Based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of December 31, 2006, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense. However, because the effects of any method selected to mitigate the risk of interest rate changes are uncertain, this analysis assumes that management will take no action to mitigate interest rate risk. Further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. CREDIT RISK Financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. We place our investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. We believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and equivalents and investments. We are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions with which we conduct business fail to perform. However, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. We also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. We manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. We do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. However, essentially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the U.S. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. Repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. Exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. There is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 36 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a 15(f) or 15d 15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the companys Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, the companys internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. The companys management assessed the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, the companys management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, the companys internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. The companys independent registered public accounting firm has audited managements assessment of the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, as stated in their report which appears in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 37 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding notes included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. This discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements. OVERVIEW We are a global leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of reconstructive orthopaedic implants, including joint and dental, spinal implants, trauma products and related orthopaedic surgical products (sometimes referred to in this report as OSP). We also provide hospital focused consulting services to help member institutions design, implement and manage successful orthopaedic programs of distinction, which account for less than one percent of sales. Reconstructive orthopaedic implants restore joint function lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and elbows. Dental reconstructive implants restore function and aesthetics in patients that have lost teeth due to trauma or disease. Spinal implants are utilized by orthopaedic surgeons and neurosurgeons in the treatment of degenerative diseases, deformities and trauma in all regions of the spine. Trauma products are devices used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to support the bodys natural healing process. OSP include supplies and instruments designed to aid in orthopaedic surgical procedures and post operation rehabilitation. Through our consulting services, we provide hospitals and other orthopaedic practices resource capabilities in the areas of business development, marketing, in/outpatient rehab practice, clinical pathways, care mapping and space design, community relations, customer service, delivery models, cost accounting, staff utilization and more in order to improve the profit environment. We have operations in more than 24 countries and market products in more than 100 countries. We manage operations through three reportable geographic segments the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. We believe the following developments or trends are important in understanding our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2006. Demand (Volume and Mix) Trends Increased volume and changes in the mix of product sales contributed 6 percentage points of 2006 sales growth, which is 3 percentage points below the rate of growth from 2005 compared to 2004. A slowdown in procedure growth at acute care institutions in our largest operating segment as well as first half competitive losses in hips contributed to the slower growth in product sales. We believe the market for orthopaedic procedure volume on a global basis will continue to rise at mid to high single digit rates driven by an aging global population, obesity, proven clinical benefits, new material technologies, advances in surgical techniques (such as our MIS Procedures and Technologies) and more active lifestyles, among other factors. In addition, the continued shift in demand to premium products, such as Longevity, Durasul and Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylenes, Trabecular Metal Technology products, high flex knees, knee revision products and porous hip stems, continue to positively affect sales growth. For example, during 2006, sales of products incorporating Trabecular Metal Technology were over $165 million, a year over year increase of over 40 percent. We believe the most effective way to address rising health care costs without affecting patient access or treatment options is a systemic approach. This year we acquired HMI which specializes in helping hospitals to improve their business processes. HMI will be part of a new Zimmer business unit specifically focused on health economic issues. This will include: developing new clinical/economic data; expanding our current Pathways Program; and helping to develop improved office management processes and technology. We believe innovative surgical approaches will continue to significantly affect the orthopaedics industry. We continued our significant progress in the development and introduction of MIS Implants, Procedures and technologies. During the year ended December 31, 2006, The Zimmer Institute and its satellite locations trained nearly 2,000 surgeons on advanced techniques, including over 1,300 surgeons on MIS Procedures. Pricing Trends Selling prices were up modestly during 2006 compared with a 1 percentage point increase during 2005 when compared to 2004. Asia Pacific selling prices decreased 2 percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to a negligible change in 2005 when compared to 2004. Effective April 1, 2006, the Japanese government reduced reimbursement rates, which contributed to a reduction of our selling prices in Japan by approximately 4 percent during 2006. Japan represents approximately 8 percent of our sales. Effective January 1, 2007, the Japanese government reduced reimbursement rates again. We estimate this action will affect Japan sales negatively by approximately 3.5 percent for 2007. The Americas experienced a 2 percent increase in selling prices during 2006, compared to a 1 percent increase in 2005. In Europe, selling prices for 2006 decreased 1 percent, the same decrease we saw in 2005 as compared to 2004. Within Europe, Germany, which constitutes approximately 6 percent of our sales, experienced a 4 percent decrease in selling prices in 2006, as a result of reductions in government implant reimbursement rates. The United Kingdom, which comprises 3 percent of our sales, reported a similar 4 percent decline in selling prices for the year. The price declines in Germany and the United Kingdom were partially offset by increased selling prices in other European markets. With continuing pressure from governmental healthcare cost containment efforts and group purchasing organizations, we 24 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT estimate global sales could be adversely affected by 1 to 2 percent in 2007 due to changes in selling prices. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates For 2006, foreign currency exchange rates had a modest negative effect on global sales growth. A weaker U.S. Dollar compared to most foreign currencies in the three month period ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same 2005 period, increased sales by 2 percentage points. If foreign currency exchange rates remain consistent with the year end rates, we estimate that the weaker dollar versus foreign currency exchange rates will have a positive effect in 2007 of approximately 0.8 percent on sales. We address currency risk through regular operating and financing activities, and under appropriate circumstances and subject to proper authorization, through the use of forward contracts solely for managing foreign currency volatility and risk. Changes to foreign currency exchange rates affect sales growth, but due to offsetting gains/losses on hedge contracts, which are recorded in cost of products sold, the effect on net earnings in the near term is expected to be minimal. New Product Sales New products, which we define as products or stock keeping units (SKUs) introduced within the prior 36 month period to a particular market, accounted for 24 percent, or $828 million, of 2006 sales. Adoption rates for new technologies are a key indicator of performance in our industry. Our sales have grown with the introduction of new products, such as the Gender Solutions Knee, Durom Acetabular System with Metasul Technology, Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Prosthesis, Versys Epoch Composite Hip Stem, Acetabular Revision system, Zimmer NCB Plating System, Anatomical Shoulder Inverse/Reverse Systems and Zimmer Universal Locking Plates. We expect new products in our current pipeline will favorably affect our future operating performance. Products we expect to contribute to new product sales in 2007 include, in addition to those listed above, an MIS Porolock Stem, Durom Hemi Femoral with Metasul Technology, Porolock Titanium Surface Stem with Kinectivtm Technology, Natural Knee II High Flex Gender, NexGen LPS High Flex Mobile Bearing Knee, Dynesys Top Loading Dynamic Stabilization and BRIGITtm Bone Resection Instrument Guide. Strategic Initiatives ENABLE, INNOVATE and GROW Our refined corporate strategies now focus on our ability to ENABLE, to INNOVATE, and to GROW. Each of these corporate strategies has three initiatives linked with it; in total these initiatives will guide our business plan for the foreseeable future. We believe these initiatives will enable us to effectively respond to key trends in the orthopaedics industry while continuing to build upon our strengths. Some of these are further discussed below. We will ENABLE growth by, among other actions, reaching out to new audiences. Historically our focus has been primarily on the surgeon health care provider and the orthopaedic wing of the hospital. More decision makers are now involved. These include consumers with specific focus on special consumer groups such as women; the obese; ethnic groups; age specific groups; governments; general practitioners and nurses; insurance companies and other payors; and professional societies. A Direct To Patient campaign we are conducting in the United States to support the Gender Solutions Knee product launch, and the Back in the Groovetm Community Healthcare Program aimed at providing African American arthritis sufferers increased access to information about knee and hip replacement options, are examples of how we can reach out to these new audiences. We will INNOVATE new and unique solutions for orthopaedic patients. Biologics is the new frontier of orthopaedics with enormous potential to provide new treatment approaches for patients. We already have a strong foundation in this area. For example, through an agreement with Revivicor, Inc. we obtained exclusive worldwide distribution rights for genetically engineered tissues for regenerative therapies, including soft tissue biological repair and replacement. In partnership with ISTO Technologies, we are developing cartilage regeneration and cell based therapies called Neocartilage Technology. We will GROW through appropriately planned investment. Infrastructure investments are planned to support future growth which include but are not limited to, the substantial investments we are making to our facilities around the world. They also include improvements to our organizational infrastructure, such as vertical integration in sourcing; expanded quality systems; Information Technology efficiency; leading edge compliance; state of the art automation; and advanced education. Acquisitions of Centerpulse and Implex We are near completion of our integration plans for Centerpulse and Implex. We incurred an aggregate of $322 million in acquisition and integration costs and expenses from October 2003 through December 2006. Although the vast majority of the integration activities are behind us, a few items still remain. Some of those items include continued IT systems conversions, continued manufacturing in sourcing and some warehouse consolidations in a few countries. New Accounting Pronouncements On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)). We adopted this accounting standard using the modified prospective method and will not restate prior periods. Share based payment expense had the effect of reducing diluted earnings per share by $0.22 during the year ended December 31, 2006. Our share based payment expense is primarily derived from awards of stock options and equity share units. We did not grant any equity share units until 2006. Prior to January 1, 2006 under Accounting Principle Board Opinion No. 25 (APB 25), share based payment expense was not significant because the exercise price of the stock options we granted generally equaled the market price 25 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT of the underlying stock on the measurement date of the stock options and no equity share units had been awarded. Share based payment expense is a non cash expense and therefore had no effect on our net cash flows. As of December 31, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS 158). This Statement requires recognition of the funded status of a benefit plan in the statement of financial position. As a result, our liabilities increased by $31.3 million. However, this had no effect on our results of operations or cash flows. For more information on the effect of this standard, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this report under Item 8. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Net Sales by Operating Segment The following table presents net sales by operating segment and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Volume/ Foreign 2006 2005 % Inc Mix Price Exchange Americas $ 2,076.5 $ 1,941.8 7 % 5 % 2 % % Europe 931.1 874.8 6 7 (1 ) Asia Pacific 487.8 469.5 4 9 (2 ) (3 ) $ 3,495.4 $ 3,286.1 6 7 (1 ) Foreign Exchange as used in the tables in this report represents the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on sales growth. Net Sales by Product Category The following table presents net sales by product category and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Volume/ Foreign 2006 2005 % Inc Mix Price Exchange Reconstructive Knees $ 1,461.5 $ 1,366.2 7 % 7 % % % Hips 1,189.4 1,140.6 4 5 (1 ) Dental 179.0 148.1 21 16 4 1 Extremities 77.6 66.1 17 13 4 Total 2,907.5 2,721.0 7 7 Trauma 194.7 179.8 8 7 1 Spine 177.4 160.4 11 10 1 OSP and other 215.8 224.9 (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) Total $ 3,495.4 $ 3,286.1 6 7 (1 ) The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line including the NexGen LPS Flex Gender Knee, NexGen CR Flex Gender Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components and the NexGen MIS Stemmed Tibial Plate, as well as Prolong Highly Cross linked Polyethylene articular surface components, led knee sales. In addition, strong growth in the Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee and the Innex Total Knee System was offset, in part, by declining sales of the Natural Knee II System. Growth in porous stems, including the new Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Stem, Zimmer M/ L Taper Stem, and the CLS Spotorno Stem from the CLS Hip System led hip sales. Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups and Metasul LDHtm Large Diameter Heads experienced strong growth offset by declining sales of Cemented Stems. Orthobiologicals and prosthetic implants, including strong growth of the Tapered Screw Vent and Internal Hex Implant Systems, led dental sales. Trabecular Metal Shoulder Stems led extremities sales. Zimmer Periarticular Plates, the Zimmer NCB Plating System, the Sirus IM Nail and I.T.S.T. Intertrochanteric/ Subtrochanteric Fixation System experienced strong growth while sales of Compression Hip Screws continued to decline. The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System and Spinal Trabecular Metal Spacers led the growth in spine sales while sales of cages for interbody fusion declined. As a result of the termination of the OrthoPAT5 Autotransfusion System distribution arrangement, sales for this device fell by over $25 million, 5 Trademark of Haemonetics Corporation. 26 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT accounting for the decline in OSP product sales. The distribution arrangement ended February, 2006. The following table presents estimated* 2006 global market size and market share information (dollars in billions): Global Global Zimmer Zimmer Market Market Market Market Size % Growth** Share Position Reconstructive Knees $ 5.2 8 % 28 % 1 Hips 4.5 6 27 1 Dental 2.2 22 8 4 Extremities 0.4 13 19 2 Total $ 12.3 10 24 1 Trauma $ 3.3 10 6 5 Spine*** $ 5.3 15 3 6 * Estimates based on company annual filings, Wall Street equity research and Zimmer management ** Excludes the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on sales growth *** Spine includes related orthobiologics Americas Net Sales The following table presents Americas net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, % Inc 2006 2005 (Dec) Reconstructive Knees $ 940.8 $ 880.5 7 % Hips 579.4 538.1 8 Dental 105.4 88.8 19 Extremities 54.2 46.2 17 Total 1,679.8 1,553.6 8 Trauma 117.1 107.5 9 Spine 146.9 132.7 11 OSP and other 132.7 148.0 (10 ) Total $ 2,076.5 $ 1,941.8 7 The period was characterized by balanced growth in hips and knees augmented by strong growth in other product lines. Growth in porous stems, including the new Trabecular Metal Primary Hip Stem and the Zimmer M/ L Taper Stem, led hip sales. Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups, and Metasul LDH Heads experienced strong growth offset by declining sales of Cemented Stems. The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line including the NexGen LPS Flex Gender Knee, NexGen CR Flex Gender Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components and the NexGen MIS Stemmed Tibial Plate as well as Prolong Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene articular surface components led knee sales offset, in part, by declining sales of the Natural Knee II System. Dental, extremities and spine experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. The Tapered Screw Vent Implant System led dental sales. The Trabecular Metal Shoulder Stems led extremities sales. The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System and Spinal Trabecular Metal Spacers led spine sales while trauma sales returned to solid growth behind Zimmer Periarticular Plates, the Zimmer NCB Plating system, the Sirus IM Nail and I.T.S.T. Intertrochanteric/ Subtrochanteric Fixation System. Europe Net Sales The following table presents Europe net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Inc Reconstructive Knees $ 353.2 $ 327.0 8 % Hips 418.3 410.3 2 Dental 47.2 40.1 18 Extremities 18.0 13.7 31 Total 836.7 791.1 6 Trauma 38.1 33.1 15 Spine 24.8 22.4 11 OSP and other 31.5 28.2 12 Total $ 931.1 $ 874.8 6 Strong knee sales continued to drive growth in Europe. Eight percent volume and mix growth was offset by a 2 percent drop in average selling prices for knees in Europe. The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line and the Innex Total Knee System led knee sales. Hip sales growth was negatively affected by reduced selling prices in Germany, Italy, Portugal and the United Kingdom. The CLS Spotorno Stem, Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, Metasul LDH Heads and Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups led hip sales. Dental, extremities, trauma, spine and OSP again experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. Dental sales were led by the Tapered Screw Vent Implant System. The Anatomical Shoulder System led extremities sales. Zimmer Periarticular Plates and the Zimmer NCB Plating System led trauma sales. Trabecular Metal Spacers led spine sales. Strong sales of wound management products contributed to the OSP sales performance. 27 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT Asia Pacific Net Sales The following table presents Asia Pacific net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 % Inc Reconstructive Knees $ 167.5 $ 158.7 6 % Hips 191.7 192.2 Dental 26.4 19.2 37 Extremities 5.4 6.2 (13 ) Total 391.0 376.3 4 Trauma 39.5 39.2 1 Spine 5.7 5.3 9 OSP 51.6 48.7 6 Total $ 487.8 $ 469.5 4 A stronger U.S. dollar in the first half of the year resulted in a negative 3 percent effect on sales for Asia Pacific, including a 3 percent drop in knee sales and a negative 4 percent impact on hip sales. A reduction in reimbursement prices for orthopaedic implants in Japan went into effect April 1, 2006. Together with other price changes in this segment this action led to a negative 2 percent effect on sales, including negative 2 percent on knees and negative 4 percent on hips. Volume and mix growth more than offset the negative effects of price and currency in knees while netting out to result in flat sales in hips. Strong knee sales drove growth in Asia Pacific. The NexGen CR Flex Knee and the NexGen LPS Flex Knee led knee sales. The continued conversion to porous stems, including the VerSys Hip System and the CLS Spotorno Stem led hip sales. Sales of Longevity Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners and Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups also exhibited strong growth. Dental experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. The Tapered Screw Vent Implant System and the Spline Implant System led dental sales. Extremity sales were impacted by lower sales of the Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder System. Strong powered instrument sales contributed to the OSP sales performance. Gross Profit Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 77.7 percent in 2006, compared to 77.5 percent in 2005. The following table reconciles the gross margin for 2005 to 2006: Year ended December 31, 2005 gross margin 77.5 % Increased selling prices 0.1 Share based compensation (0.3 ) Other 0.4 Year ended December 31, 2006 gross margin 77.7 % Higher average selling prices in our largest operating segment offset by lower prices in Europe and Asia Pacific contributed to the modest improvement in gross margin. Other primary contributors to the improvement in gross profit margin were the net favorable effect of year over year changes in foreign currency hedge gains and losses and manufacturing productivity gains offset by underlying exposure gains and losses, increased inventory charges due to the impact of our newer products on aging product lines and increased royalty expenses as a percentage of sales due to a higher mix of royalty bearing sales. Operating Expenses Research and Development, or R&D, as a percentage of net sales was 5.4 percent for 2006, compared to 5.3 percent in 2005. R&D increased to $188.3 million for 2006 from $175.5 million in 2005, reflecting increased spending on projects focused on our redefined corporate strategies and $8.7 million of share based payment expense. In 2006, we expanded our Biologics group based in Austin, Texas. We continued working with our third party partners on genetically engineered tissues for regenerative therapies, including soft tissue biological repair and replacement. We also worked to develop sophisticated tools for surgeons. The Zimmer BRIGIT Bone Resection Instrument Guide is an example of these sophisticated tools. Other examples include new sensor technologies, Computer Assisted Solutions personalized for specific surgeons, digital instruments, and digital/electronic templating. Currently, our product pipeline consists of approximately 100 active new product development projects. We are also investing in additional Gender implant designs following on the successful launch of our Zimmer Gender Solutions Knee, MIS Procedures and Technologies, material technologies, including woven materials and drug/device combinations and intelligence technologies, including sensor technology. New products, which we define as those introduced into a market in the preceding thirty six months, accounted for approximately 24 percent of net sales in 2006 compared with 21 percent in 2005. In the second half of 2006, we launched twenty new products. Twelve of those represented major launches, such as the Gender Solutions Knee, DuromAcetabular System with Metasul Technology, VerSys Epoch Composite Hip Stem and the Trabecular Metal Acetabular Revision System. We continue to target our R&D spending at the high end of what we believe to be an industry average of 4 6 percent. Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, as a percentage of net sales was 38.8 percent for 2006, compared to 38.3 percent in 2005. Share based compensation added $55.9 million of expense for the year ended December 31, 2006, or an additional 1.6 percentage points when compared with 2005. Absent share based compensation, SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased. The decrease was primarily due to sales growth, realized expense synergies and well controlled spending. Acquisition, integration and other items for 2006 were $6.1 million compared to $56.6 million in 2005, and included $27.7 million of income related to three unrelated matters the sale of the former Centerpulse Austin land and facilities for a gain of $5.1 million and the favorable settlement of two pre acquisition contingent liabilities. A reduction in product liability accounted for $4.9 million of income. Expense items included a $13.4 million impairment charge for certain Centerpulse tradename and trademark intangibles based principally in our Europe operating segment, $8.8 million of integration consulting expenses, $3.3 million of employee 28 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT severance and retention costs, $3.0 million of costs related to integrating our information technology systems, $2.9 million of in process research and development, $2.5 million of personnel expenses and travel for full time integration team members and $4.8 million of other expenses. Operating Profit, Income Taxes and Net Earnings Operating profit for 2006 increased 10 percent to $1,165.2 million, from $1,055.0 million in 2005. Increased sales, improved gross profit margins, realized operating expense synergies, controlled operating expenses and decreased acquisition and integration expenses offset $76.0 million of share based compensation expense to drive the increase in operating profit. The effective tax rate on earnings before income taxes and minority interest decreased to 28.6 percent for 2006, down from 29.5 percent in 2005. The reasons for the lower effective tax rate were the implementation of several European restructuring initiatives, the successful negotiation of a lower ongoing Swiss tax rate (from approximately 24 percent to 12.5 percent) and the continued expansion of operations in lower tax jurisdictions, including Puerto Rico. Net earnings increased 14 percent to $834.5 million for 2006, compared to $732.5 million in 2005. The increase was due to higher operating profit, lower acquisition, integration and other expenses, decreased interest expense due to a lower average outstanding debt balance and a lower effective tax rate, offset by $54.5 million of share based compensation expense, net of tax. Basic and diluted earnings per share increased 16 percent to $3.43 and $3.40, respectively, from $2.96 and $2.93 in 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Net Sales by Operating Segment The following table presents net sales by operating segment and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Volume/ Foreign 2005 2004 % Inc Mix Price Exchange Americas $ 1,941.8 $ 1,741.3 12 % 10 % 1 % 1 % Europe 874.8 808.3 8 9 (1 ) Asia Pacific 469.5 431.3 9 8 1 $ 3,286.1 $ 2,980.9 10 9 1 Foreign Exchange as used in the tables in this report represents the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on sales growth. Net Sales by Product Category The following table presents net sales by product category and the components of the percentage changes (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, Volume/ Foreign 2005 2004 % Inc Mix Price Exchange Reconstructive Knees $ 1,366.2 $ 1,194.5 14 % 13 % 1 % % Hips 1,140.6 1,079.0 6 5 1 Dental 148.1 124.7 19 16 2 1 Extremities 66.1 58.1 14 10 4 Total 2,721.0 2,456.3 11 10 1 Trauma 179.8 172.9 4 2 2 Spine 160.4 134.2 20 19 1 OSP 224.9 217.5 3 2 1 Total $ 3,286.1 $ 2,980.9 10 9 1 The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line including the NexGen LPS Flex Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components, the NexGen CR Flex Knee, the NexGen Rotating Hinge Knee and the NexGen LCCK Revision Knee led knee sales. In addition, the Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee and the Innex Total Knee System exhibited strong growth. Growth in porous stems, including the Fiber Metal Taper Stem from the VerSys Hip System, Zimmer M/ L Taper Stem, the CLS Spotorno Stem from the CLS Hip System, and the Alloclassic Zweymller Hip System led hip sales. Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups, Durom Hip Resurfacing System products internationally, and Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners also had strong growth. Orthobiologicals and prosthetic implants, including strong growth of the Tapered Screw Vent Implant System, led dental sales. The Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder Solution led extremities sales. Zimmer Periarticular Plates, Zimmer Plates and Screws and I.T.S.T. 29 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT Intertrochanteric/Subtrochanteric Fixation System led trauma sales. The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System, the ST360 Spinal Fixation System and Spinal Trabecular Metal Spacers led spine sales. The growth of the OrthoPAT Autotransfusion System and wound management products led OSP sales. On August 30, 2005, Haemonetics Corporation announced they were ending an exclusive distribution agreement with us. We sold the OrthoPAT Autotransfusion System through February 2006. Americas Net Sales The following table presents Americas net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % Inc (Dec) Reconstructive Knees $ 880.5 $ 762.0 16 % Hips 538.1 499.6 8 Dental 88.8 75.3 18 Extremities 46.2 41.1 12 Total 1,553.6 1,378.0 13 Trauma 107.5 105.7 2 Spine 132.7 111.0 20 OSP 148.0 146.6 1 Total $ 1,941.8 $ 1,741.3 12 Strong knee sales drove growth in the Americas. The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line, including the NexGen LPS Flex Knee, NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components, the NexGen LCCK Revision Knee and the NexGen CR Flex Knee led knee sales. The Zimmer Unicompartmental High Flex Knee also made a strong contribution. We also benefited from strong hip sales in a relatively softer market compared to the prior year. Growth in porous stems, including growth of the Zimmer M/ L Taper Stem and Alloclassic Zweymller Hip System led hip sales, but were partially offset by weaker sales of cemented stems. Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups and Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners also exhibited strong growth. Dental, extremities and spine experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. The Tapered Screw Vent Implant System led dental sales. The Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder System led extremities sales. The Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System and the ST360 Spinal Fixation System led spine sales. Europe Net Sales The following table presents Europe net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % Inc Reconstructive Knees $ 327.0 $ 292.0 12 % Hips 410.3 398.4 3 Dental 40.1 34.8 15 Extremities 13.7 11.6 20 Total 791.1 736.8 7 Trauma 33.1 29.5 12 Spine 22.4 19.8 13 OSP 28.2 22.2 27 Total $ 874.8 $ 808.3 8 Strong knee sales drove growth in Europe. The NexGen Complete Knee Solution product line and the Innex Total Knee System led knee sales. Hip sales growth was negatively affected by reduced selling prices in Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal and the United Kingdom. The CLS Spotorno Stem, Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners, Durom Hip Resurfacing System and Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups led hip sales. Dental, extremities, trauma, spine and OSP experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. Dental sales were led by the Tapered Screw Vent Implant System. The Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder System led extremities sales. Cable Ready Cable Grip System and Zimmer Periarticular Plates led trauma sales. The Silhouettetm Spinal System(7) and Trabecular Metal Spacers led spine sales. Wound management products led OSP sales. Asia Pacific Net Sales The following table presents Asia Pacific net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 % Inc Reconstructive Knees $ 158.7 $ 140.5 13 % Hips 192.2 181.0 6 Dental 19.2 14.6 31 Extremities 6.2 5.4 15 Total 376.3 341.5 10 Trauma 39.2 37.7 4 Spine 5.3 3.4 57 OSP 48.7 48.7 Total $ 469.5 $ 431.3 9 Strong knee and hip sales drove growth in Asia Pacific. NexGen Trabecular Metal Tibial Components, the NexGen CR Flex Knee and the NexGen LPS Flex Knee led knee sales. The continued conversion to porous stems, including the VerSys Hip System, the Alloclassic Zweymller Hip 7 The Silhouette Spinal System is licensed from Spinal Innovations, LLC. 30 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT System and the CLS Spotorno Stem led hip sales, partially offset by weaker sales of revision stems. Sales of Longevity and Durasul Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene Liners and Trabecular Metal Acetabular Cups also exhibited strong growth. Dental, extremities and spine experienced double digit percentage growth compared to the prior year. The Tapered Screw Vent Implant System and the Spline Implant System led dental sales. The Bigliani/ Flatow Shoulder System led extremities sales. The ST360 Spinal System led spine sales. Gross Profit Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 77.5 percent in 2005, compared to 73.8 percent in 2004. The following table reconciles the gross margin for 2004 to 2005: Year ended December 31, 2004 gross margin 73.8 % Reduction in inventory step up charge 1.8 Improved inventory management 0.8 Increased selling prices 0.2 Resolution of certain legal and other matters 0.2 Other 0.7 Year ended December 31, 2005 gross margin 77.5 % Inventory step up costs in the year ended December 31, 2005, decreased to $5.0 million, or 0.2 percent of sales, compared to $59.4 million, or 2.0 percent of sales, in 2004. We define inventory step up as the difference between the cost basis and the fair value of acquired Centerpulse and Implex inventories. Other primary contributors to the improvement in gross profit margin were reduced inventory charges due to improved inventory management, increased selling prices, favorable resolution of certain legal and other matters and reduced royalties. Royalty expenses as a percentage of sales declined due to a favorable mix of non royalty bearing sales. Operating Expenses R&D as a percentage of net sales was 5.3 percent for 2005, compared to 5.6 percent in 2004. R&D increased to $175.5 million for 2005 from $166.7 million in 2004, reflecting increased spending on projects focused on areas of strategic significance, including orthobiologics. In 2005, we doubled the number of internal people and project related orthobiological investments. At the end of 2005, our product pipeline consisted of more than 160 active projects. We also invested in MIS Procedures and Technologies, material technologies, including woven materials and drug/device combinations and intelligence technologies, including sensor technology. We delivered more than 79 projects to the market in 2005. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was 38.3 percent for 2005, compared to 39.9 percent in 2004. The decrease was primarily due to sales growth and realized expense synergies. In addition, lower product liability claims and well controlled general and administrative spending reduced SG&A as a percentage of sales. Acquisition, integration and other expenses for 2005 were $56.6 million compared to $81.1 million in 2004, and included $13.3 million of employee severance and retention expenses, $12.7 million of sales agent contract termination expenses, $6.9 million of costs related to integrating our information technology systems, $6.2 million of facility relocation expenses, $5.6 million of integration consulting expenses, $3.2 million related to the impairment loss on the Austin facility, $3.1 million of personnel expenses and travel for full time integration team members and $5.6 million of other expenses. Operating Profit, Income Taxes and Net Earnings Operating profit for 2005 increased 38 percent to $1,055.0 million, from $763.2 million in 2004. Increased sales, improved gross profit margins, realized operating expense synergies, controlled operating expenses and decreased acquisition and integration expenses drove operating profit. The effective tax rate on earnings before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle increased to 29.5 percent for 2005, from 25.9 percent in 2004. The provision for income taxes in 2004 included a $34.5 million benefit (4.7 percent) as a result of revaluing deferred taxes of acquired Centerpulse operations due to a reduction in the ongoing Swiss tax rate. Even without this one time benefit, we realized a lower effective tax rate for 2005. The reasons for the lower effective tax rate were the implementation of several European restructuring initiatives, the successful negotiation of a lower ongoing Swiss tax rate (from approximately 24 percent to 12.5 percent) and the continued expansion of operations in lower tax jurisdictions, including Puerto Rico. In 2004, the successful negotiation of the lower Swiss tax rate was effective for the last five months of the year, whereas in 2005 the benefit was recognized for the entire year. Net earnings increased 35 percent to $732.5 million for 2005, compared to $541.8 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher operating profit and decreased interest expense due to a lower average outstanding debt balance, offset by a higher effective tax rate. Basic and diluted earnings per share increased 33 and 34 percent to $2.96 and $2.93, respectively, from $2.22 and $2.19 in 2004. OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT Management evaluates operating segment performance based upon segment operating profit exclusive of operating expenses pertaining to global operations and corporate expenses, share based compensation expense, acquisition, integration and other expenses, inventory step up, in process research and development write offs and intangible asset amortization expense. Global operations include research, development engineering, medical education, brand management, corporate legal, finance, and human resource functions, and U.S. and Puerto Rico based manufacturing operations and logistics. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated from segment operating profit. For more information regarding our segments, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. 31 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT The following table sets forth the operating profit as a percentage of sales by segment for 2006, 2005 and 2004: Percent of net sales Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Americas 53.1 % 52.6 % 51.3 % Europe 41.6 36.3 35.1 Asia Pacific 47.5 45.2 42.3 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 In the Americas, operating profit as a percentage of sales increased due to the effective control of operating expenses, including realized expense synergies and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. European operating profit as a percentage of net sales improved due to improved gross margin and the realization of expense synergies related to the elimination of redundant functions and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. Asia Pacific operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to product category mix, and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 In the Americas, operating profit as a percentage of sales increased due to an improved product category mix and controlled operating expenses, including realized expense synergies and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. European operating profit as a percentage of net sales improved due to the realization of expense synergies related to the elimination of redundant functions and controlled selling, general and administrative spending. Asia Pacific operating profit as a percentage of net sales increased primarily due to an improved product category mix, lower royalty expenses as a percentage of sales and improved inventory management. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash flows provided by operating activities were $1,040.7 million in 2006 compared to $878.2 million in 2005. The principal source of cash was net earnings of $834.5 million. Non cash charges included in net earnings accounted for another $273.4 million of operating cash. All other items of operating cash flows accounted for a use of $67.2 million of cash pertaining principally to investments in working capital in support of sales growth. We continue to focus on working capital management. At December 31, 2006, we had 55 days of sales outstanding in trade accounts receivable, an increase of 4 days when compared to December 31, 2005. A modest slowdown in payments from health care institutions occurred in all reporting segments. At December 31, 2006, we had 277 days of inventory on hand, favorable to December 31, 2005 by 6 days. Our inventory levels have improved from a third quarter high of 310 days as a result of seasonal demand patterns and internal efforts to redeploy inventory to eliminate unnecessary safety stocks and improve inventory turns. Cash flows used in investing activities were $287.0 million in 2006, compared to $311.1 million in 2005. In 2006, we made a final payment of $28.1 million pursuant to the terms of the Implex acquisition agreement for contingent earn out payments. This compares with a payment of $44.1 million in 2005. Additions to instruments during 2006 were $126.2 million compared to $150.0 million in 2005. Certain of our 2006 product launches such as our Gender Solutions Knee demanded lower relative instrument purchases as we were able to leverage existing instrument systems for this new product. In 2007, we expect to spend approximately $120 $130 million on instruments to support new products, sales growth and MIS Procedures. We have realized benefits from in sourcing instruments at a lower cost. Additions to other property, plant and equipment during 2006 were $142.1 million compared to $105.3 million in 2005. Increases were related to facility expansions in Warsaw, Indiana; Ponce, Puerto Rico; and Parsippany, New Jersey. These facility expansions improved working conditions and capabilities for our research and development organization, and responded to increased demand, the transfer of production to our other manufacturing sites as a result of the closure of the Austin, Texas facility and the tripling of Trabecular Metal Technology production capacity. During 2007, we expect to purchase approximately $170 $180 million in other property, plant and equipment, as a result of ongoing facility expansions in Warsaw, Indiana; Ponce, Puerto Rico; Winterthur, Switzerland; and investment in new information technology systems and further productivity related initiatives. Cash flows used in financing activities were $730.7 million for 2006, compared to $484.6 million in 2005. In December 2005, our Board of Directors approved a $1 billion stock repurchase program. We repurchased $798.8 million of our common stock in 2006 as compared with $4.1 million in 2005. In December 2006, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, authorizing us to repurchase up to an additional $1 billion of our common stock through December 31, 2008. We utilized cash generated from operating activities and $41.3 million in cash proceeds received from employee stock compensation plans to fund the repurchases. We expect to use excess cash to fund future purchases, if any, under these programs. We have a five year $1,350 million revolving, multi currency, senior unsecured credit facility maturing March 31, 2010 (the Senior Credit Facility). We had $99.6 million outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility at December 31, 2006, and an availability of $1,250.4 million. The $99.6 million is for use in Japan and carries a low interest rate. The Senior Credit Facility contains a provision by which we can increase the line to $1,750 million. We and certain of our wholly owned foreign and domestic subsidiaries are the borrowers, and our wholly 32 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT owned domestic subsidiaries are the guarantors, of the Senior Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility are used for general corporate purposes and bear interest at a LIBOR based rate plus an applicable margin determined by reference to our senior unsecured long term credit rating and the amounts drawn under the Senior Credit Facility, at an alternate base rate, or at a fixed rate determined through a competitive bid process. The Senior Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default for an unsecured financing arrangement, including, among other things, limitations on consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. Financial covenants include a maximum leverage ratio of 3.0 to 1.0 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.5 to 1.0. If we fall below an investment grade credit rating, additional restrictions would result, including restrictions on investments, payment of dividends and stock repurchases. We were in compliance with all covenants under the Senior Credit Facility as of December 31, 2006. Commitments under the Senior Credit Facility are subject to certain fees, including a facility and a utilization fee. The Senior Credit Facility is rated BBB+ by Standard & Poors Ratings Services and is not rated by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. We also have available uncommitted credit facilities totaling $60.9 million. Management believes that cash flows from operations, together with available borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility, are sufficient to meet our expected working capital, capital expenditure and debt service needs. Should investment opportunities arise, we believe that our earnings, balance sheet and cash flows will allow us to obtain additional capital, if necessary. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We have entered into contracts with various third parties in the normal course of business which will require future payments. The following table illustrates our contractual obligations (in millions): 2008 2010 and and 2012 and Contractual Obligations Total 2007 2009 2011 Thereafter Long term debt $ 99.6 $ $ $ 99.6 $ Operating leases 104.3 24.2 34.4 20.6 25.1 Purchase Obligations 22.1 21.1 1.0 Other long term liabilities 323.4 82.3 19.4 221.7 Total contractual obligations $ 549.4 $ 45.3 $ 117.7 $ 139.6 $ 246.8 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our financial results are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies and methods. Significant accounting policies which require managements judgment are discussed below. Excess Inventory and Instruments We must determine as of each balance sheet date how much, if any, of our inventory may ultimately prove to be unsaleable or unsaleable at our carrying cost. Similarly, we must also determine if instruments on hand will be put to productive use or remain undeployed as a result of excess supply. Reserves are established to effectively adjust inventory and instruments to net realizable value. To determine the appropriate level of reserves, we evaluate current stock levels in relation to historical and expected patterns of demand for all of our products and instrument systems and components. The basis for the determination is generally the same for all inventory and instrument items and categories except for work in progress inventory, which is recorded at cost. Obsolete or discontinued items are generally destroyed and completely written off. Management evaluates the need for changes to valuation reserves based on market conditions, competitive offerings and other factors on a regular basis. Income Taxes We estimate income tax expense and income tax liabilities and assets by taxable jurisdiction. Realization of deferred tax assets in each taxable jurisdiction is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income sufficient to realize the benefits. We evaluate deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis and provide valuation allowances if it is determined to be more likely than not that the deferred tax benefit will not be realized. Federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the U.S. We operate within numerous taxing jurisdictions. We are subject to regulatory review or audit in virtually all of those jurisdictions and those reviews and audits may require extended periods of time to resolve. We make use of all available information and make reasoned judgments regarding matters requiring interpretation in establishing tax expense, liabilities and reserves. We believe adequate provisions exist for income taxes for all periods and jurisdictions subject to review or audit. Commitments and Contingencies Accruals for product liability and other claims are established with internal and external legal counsel based on current information and historical settlement information for claims, related fees and for claims incurred but not reported. We use an actuarial model to assist management in determining an appropriate level of accruals for product liability claims. Historical patterns of claim loss development over time are statistically analyzed to arrive at factors which are then applied to loss estimates in the actuarial model. The amounts established equate to less than 5% of total liabilities and represent managements best estimate of the ultimate costs that we will incur under the various contingencies. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually, or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate the carrying value of finite life intangible assets whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be 33 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT recoverable. Significant assumptions are required to estimate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, most notably estimated future cash flows generated by these assets. As such, these fair valuation measurements use significant unobservable inputs as defined under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. Changes to these assumptions could require us to record impairment charges on these assets. Share based Payment We account for share based payment expense in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R). Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R), share based payment expense is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value of share based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating the expected life of stock options and the expected volatility of our stock. Additionally, we must estimate the amount of share based awards that are expected to be forfeited. We estimate expected volatility based upon the implied volatility of our actively traded options. The expected life of stock options and estimated forfeitures are based upon our employees historical exercise and forfeiture behaviors. The assumptions used in determining the grant date fair value and the expected forfeitures represent managements best estimates. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Information about recent accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in this report under Item 8. 34 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk MARKET RISK We are exposed to certain market risks as part of our ongoing business operations, including risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We manage our exposure to these and other market risks through regular operating and financing activities, and through the use of derivative financial instruments. We use derivative financial instruments solely as risk management tools and not for speculative investment purposes. FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK We operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We are primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to transactions and net assets denominated in Euros, Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars and Australian Dollars. We manage the foreign currency exposure centrally, on a combined basis, which allows us to net exposures and to take advantage of any natural offsets. To reduce the uncertainty of foreign exchange rate movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we enter into derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major financial institutions. These forward contracts are designed to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods consistent with commitments. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then recognized in cost of products sold when the hedged item affects net earnings. For contracts outstanding at December 31, 2006, we had obligations to purchase U.S. Dollars and sell Euros, Japanese Yen, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars, Australian Dollars and Korean Won or purchase Swiss Francs and sell U.S. Dollars at set maturity dates ranging from January 2007 through June 2009. The notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase U.S. Dollars at December 31, 2006 and 2005, were $1,374.3 million and $1,142 million, respectively. The notional amounts of outstanding forward contracts entered into with third parties to purchase Swiss Francs at December 31, 2006, were $205 million. The weighted average contract rates outstanding are Euro:USD 1.29, USD:Swiss Franc 1.20, USD:Japanese Yen 106, British Pound:USD 1.82, USD:Canadian Dollar 1.15, Australian Dollar:USD 0.74 and USD:Korean Won 954. We maintain written policies and procedures governing our risk management activities. Our policy requires that critical terms of hedging instruments are the same as hedged forecasted transactions. On this basis, with respect to cash flow hedges, changes in cash flows attributable to hedged transactions are generally expected to be completely offset by changes in the fair value of hedge instruments. As part of our risk management program, we also perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in revenue, operating results, cash flows and financial position relating to hypothetical movements in currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2006, indicated that, if the U.S. Dollar uniformly changed in value by 10 percent relative to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and Korean Won, with no change in the interest differentials, the fair value of those contracts would increase or decrease earnings before income taxes in periods through 2009, depending on the direction of the change, by an average approximate amount of $73.7 million, $21.4 million, $18.9 million, $13.8 million, $6.5 million, $6.9 million and $2.3 million for the Euro, Swiss Franc, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar and Korean Won contracts, respectively. Any change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts as a result of a fluctuation in a currency exchange rate is expected to be largely offset by a change in the value of the hedged transaction. Consequently, foreign exchange contracts would not subject us to material risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these contracts offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being hedged. We had net investment exposures to net foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of approximately $1,672 million at December 31, 2006, primarily in Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen and Euros. Approximately $1,102 million of the net asset exposure at December 31, 2006 relates to goodwill recorded in the Europe and Asia Pacific geographic segments. We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with terms of one month to manage currency exposures for assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than an entitys functional currency. As a result, foreign currency translation gains/losses recognized in earnings under SFAS No. 52, Foreign Currency Translation are generally offset with gain/losses on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the same reporting period. COMMODITY PRICE RISK We purchase raw material commodities such as cobalt chrome, titanium, tantalum, polymer and sterile packaging. We enter into 12 to 24 month supply contracts, where available, on these commodities to alleviate the effect of market fluctuation in prices. As part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analyses related to potential commodity price changes. A 10 percent price change across all these commodities would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 35 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT INTEREST RATE RISK In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We manage our exposure to interest rate risks through our regular operations and financing activities. Presently, we invest our cash and equivalents in money market and investment grade short term debt instruments. The primary investment objective is to ensure capital preservation of our invested principal funds by limiting default and market risk. Currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. Our principal exposure to interest rate risk arises from the variable rates associated with our credit facilities. We are subject to interest rate risk through movements in interest rates on the committed Senior Credit Facility and our uncommitted credit facilities. Presently, all of our debt outstanding bears interest at short term rates. We currently do not hedge our interest rate exposure, but may do so in the future. Based upon our overall interest rate exposure as of December 31, 2006, a change of 10 percent in interest rates, assuming the amount outstanding remains constant, would not have a material effect on interest expense. However, because the effects of any method selected to mitigate the risk of interest rate changes are uncertain, this analysis assumes that management will take no action to mitigate interest rate risk. Further, this analysis does not consider the effect of the change in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. CREDIT RISK Financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, are primarily cash, cash equivalents, counterparty transactions, and accounts receivable. We place our investments in highly rated financial institutions and money market instruments, and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one entity. We believe we do not have any significant credit risk on our cash and equivalents and investments. We are exposed to credit loss if the financial institutions with which we conduct business fail to perform. However, this loss is limited to the amounts, if any, by which the obligations of the counterparty to the financial instrument contract exceed our obligation. We also minimize exposure to credit risk by dealing with a diversified group of major financial institutions. We manage credit risk by monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties using standard credit guidelines. We do not anticipate any nonperformance by any of the counterparties. Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across a number of geographic areas and by frequent monitoring of the creditworthiness of the customers to whom credit is granted in the normal course of business. However, essentially all of our trade receivables are concentrated in the public and private hospital and healthcare industry in the U.S. and internationally or with distributors or dealers who operate in international markets and, accordingly, are exposed to their respective business, economic and country specific variables. Repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of these industry sectors and the respective countries national economic and health care systems. Exposure to credit risk is controlled through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures and we believe that reserves for losses are adequate. There is no significant net exposure due to any individual customer or other major concentration of credit risk. 36 Table of Contents ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a 15(f) or 15d 15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the companys Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, the companys internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. The companys management assessed the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. In making this assessment, the companys management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on that assessment, management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, the companys internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. The companys independent registered public accounting firm has audited managements assessment of the effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, as stated in their report which appears in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 37 ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. 2006 FORM 10 K ANNUAL REPORT 
 
