FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20030724080359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (c)  Exhibits
     99.1 Press release dated July 24, 2003.
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 12  Results of Operations and Financial Condition, of Form 8-K and is being presented under Item 9 of Form 8-K in accordance with interim guidance issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583. This information is not deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is not incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 24, 2003
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 24, 2003
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations of $0.42, compared to $0.37 in 2002, an increase of 13.5%. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.28 in 2003 compared to $0.41 in 2002. Income from continuing operations was $87 million in 2003 compared to $76 million in 2002, an increase of 14.5%. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $57 million in 2003 compared to $85 million in 2002. Net income was $290 million and EPS was $1.41 compared to net income of $180 million and EPS of $0.87 in 2002.
WHITE PLAINS, NY, July 24, 2003
Barry S. Sternlicht, Chairman and CEO said, "Though our expectations were quite modest given the situation in Iraq, SARS, and the global slowdown, we are pleased with our performance in the quarter and encouraged with the monthly revenue progression, particularly the strength of transient business in June, and positive recoveries in Asia and Latin America. This strength has continued into July as both web booking trends and call centers remain relatively strong. In the quarter, Westin and W Hotels performed exceedingly well and overall, the Company's market share rose for the third consecutive quarter. Our global development pipeline is robust, and we were particularly pleased to announce our 21st and 22nd W hotels which are our first hotels and residence projects. Further, Starwood Vacation Ownership had an excellent quarter driven by the Westin branded timeshare products."
Concluding, Mr. Sternlicht said, "The highlight of our quarter and the first six months of 2003 must be the dramatic strengthening of our balance sheet, as more than $950 million of asset sales have closed. Through asset sales and disciplined capital spending, we expect our net debt to decrease to $4.1 billion by year end from nearly $5.2 billion at year end 2002. Today, we have more than $1.3 billion of capacity on our credit facilities to take advantage of attractive opportunities as they may arise. We are cautiously optimistic that business will improve as we move into the fall and 2004."
Cash flow from operations was $85 million compared to $253 million in 2002. Total Company Adjusted EBITDA was $247 million, compared to $315 million in 2002
 
reflecting lower lodging demand as a result of SARS (particularly in Toronto where the Company owns two Sheraton hotels with 1,850 rooms), the war in Iraq, and the timing of the Easter/Passover holidays. Total management and franchise fees were $57 million, even with last year while timeshare results were essentially flat despite the reduced amount of timeshare notes receivable sales. The timeshare note sale gain was $4 million versus $9 million in the year ago quarter.
REVPAR for Same-Store Owned Hotels worldwide and in the U.S. decreased 4.3% and 4.0% respectively, when compared to 2002. REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America, declined 11.7% in April, 3.5% in May and 1.3% in June. Excluding the two owned Sheraton hotels in Toronto, REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Sheraton Hotels in North America declined 4.7%. For the third quarter in a row, total Company market share in North America increased for the Company's owned and managed hotels as well as system-wide hotels. Internationally, Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR decreased 0.5%, with Europe up 1.9% and Asia Pacific up 4.1%, offset by declines in Latin America of 10.5%. Excluding the favorable effects of foreign exchange, REVPAR declined 15.2% internationally.
Revenues from the vacation ownership business increased 13.1% to $111 million as contract sales were up 14.2% reflecting strong demand at our resorts in Maui and Mission Hills. The average price per timeshare unit sold increased 16.6% to $18,007.
During the second quarter, the Company signed nine hotel management and franchise contracts (approximately 4,300 rooms) and opened eight new hotels and resorts including: the Westin Charlotte (Charlotte, North Carolina, 700 rooms), the Sheraton Sonar Bangla (Calcutta, India, 239 rooms), and the Hotel Opera (Zagreb, Croatia, 405 rooms). Nine new hotel openings scheduled for the third quarter of 2003 include: Sheraton Jiuzhaigou Hotel (Jiuzhaigou Scenic Area, China, 492 rooms), the Sheraton Porto (Porto, Portugal, 273 rooms), the Westin Casuarina Hotel, (Las Vegas, Nevada, 795 rooms), the Westin Warsaw (Warsaw, Poland, 361 rooms) and the W Mexico City (Mexico City, Mexico, 237 rooms). Including these properties, through the end of 2003, the Company expects to open 26 new full service hotels and resorts (approximately 7,000 rooms) around the world. Additionally, the development pipeline includes more than a dozen W Hotel projects (3,900 rooms), including the two hotel and residence projects in Dallas and Fort Lauderdale announced earlier this week, and 20 Sheratons and 15 Westins based on our new flexible prototype design (6,100 rooms). During the quarter, the Company announced a joint venture to run the re-themed Aladdin Resort in Las Vegas as a new Planet Hollywood Hotel, a Sheraton Hotel (2,567 rooms) and the future development of up to 600 Westin Vacation Resort timeshare units at the property. The Company will not be the operator of the casino.
During the quarter and continuing into early July, the Company realized $955 million in gross cash proceeds from asset sales, including the sale of the Hotel Principe di Savoia in Milan, Italy ("Principe") for gross cash proceeds of approximately $315 million, and four hotels and a 51% interest in undeveloped land in Costa Smeralda, Italy, ("Sardinia Assets") for gross cash proceeds of approximately $340 million in June 2003 (in each case, based on exchange rates at the time of the closing). A pre-tax gain of approximately $193 million was recorded on the sale of the Principe. A pre-tax gain of approximately $9 million was recorded on the sale of the undeveloped land in Sardinia and a pre-tax gain of approximately $82 million was deferred in connection with the sale
 
of the Sardinia hotels due to the Company's continuing involvement with these assets through long-term management contracts. The Company paid off a 450 million Euro loan with a portion of the proceeds from these Italian asset sales. The operating results of the Principe, together with interest expense related to debt that was retired with the Principe sale proceeds, is classified as discontinued operations in the attached 2003 and 2002 financial statements. In the latter part of June and early part of July, the Company sold 13 non-strategic domestic hotels, the majority of which are subject to franchise agreements, for gross cash proceeds of approximately $300 million. The Company continues to work toward the sale of 5 additional non-core domestic hotels and expects to close these sales later in 2003. These additional sales would bring total proceeds from asset sales in 2003 to approximately $1.1 billion. The Company incurred a $170 million (pre-tax) charge in the first quarter of 2003 and an additional $4 million (pre-tax) charge in the second quarter of 2003 to reflect the actual and expected sales price of these non-core domestic hotels.
Investment spending during the quarter included approximately $36 million in hotel assets; $32 million in VOI capital assets (primarily inventory build), including VOI construction at Westin Mission Hills Resort Villas in Rancho Mirage, California, Sheraton's Mountain Vista in Avon, Colorado and Westin Ka'anapali Ocean Resort Villas in Maui, Hawaii; and $24 million in other development/corporate capital, including the ongoing development of the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco (269 rooms and 102 condominium units). To date, the Company has invested $115 million in the St. Regis Museum Tower Project, a mixed-use project, which is expected to open in late 2005 or in early 2006. The Company expects to realize gross proceeds of $180  $200 million from the sale of the project's condominiums.
At June 30, 2003, the Company had total debt of $5.053 billion and cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash) of $482 million, or net debt of $4.571 billion, compared to net debt of $5.201 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2003. The net debt amount at June 30 excludes $300 million of gross proceeds from the sales of the domestic hotels completed in early July.
At June 30, 2003, debt was approximately 66% fixed rate and 34% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 6.2 years with a weighted average interest rate of 5.44%. The Company had cash (including restricted cash) and availability under our domestic and international revolving credit facilities of approximately $1.264 billion.
In May 2003, the Company sold $360 million of convertible bonds paying interest at 3.5% with a conversion price of $50.00 and a maturity date of May 2023. The proceeds were used to pay down debt and for general corporate purposes. Holders may first present their notes to the Company for repurchase in May of 2006.
 
Special Items
The Company recorded net credits of $30 million (after-tax) for special items in the second quarter of 2003 when compared to a net charge of $9 million (after-tax) in the same period of 2002.
Special items in the second quarter of 2003 primarily relate to the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters and charges related to the asset sales completed in the second quarter and the early part of July.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations after special items (in millions, except per share data):
 
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
Outlook
All comments in the following paragraphs and certain comments in this release above are deemed to be forward-looking statements. These statements reflect expectations of the Company's performance given its current base of assets and its current understanding of external economic and geo-political environments. Actual results may differ materially.
The situation in the Middle East, continued weakness in global economies, the lasting impact of SARS and the threat of terrorist events and their consequent impact on travel make it extremely difficult to predict future results with any degree of precision.
For the third quarter of 2003, if REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America was even with the third quarter of 2002 (for reference, through 21 days, North America REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in July is up 3.8% versus the same period a year ago. The Company expects August REVPAR to decline versus last year and September REVPAR to increase versus last year primarily due to increased group bookings during the week of and weeks around September 11):
For the full year 2003, assuming the sale of the 5 remaining domestic non-core hotels by the end of 2003, if REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America declined approximately 1-2% versus the full year 2002:
 
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the second quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (ET) today. The conference call will be available through simultaneous webcast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at www.starwood.com. A replay of the conference call will also be available from 1:30 p.m. (ET) today through 8:00 p.m. (ET) Thursday, July 31, on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at 719-457-0820 (access code: 223490).
Definitions:
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings (losses) per diluted share from continuing operations. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA, adjusted for gain/loss on asset dispositions, discontinued operations and special items. The Company believes that these metrics are useful to investors and management as a measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness and because such metrics can be used to measure the Company's ability to service debt, fund capital expenditures and pay cash distributions. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding hotels sold to date and under significant renovation or for which comparable results are not available. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with more than 740 properties in more than 80 countries and 105,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. With internationally renowned brands, Starwood is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts including: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, W brands, as well as Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwood.com.
(Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at
 
the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the duration and severity of the current global economic downturn, the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate and the hotel and leisure business, operating risks associated with the hotel and leisure business, relationships with customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. tax laws), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, and other circumstances and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.)
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  Balance consists of outstanding public debt of $1.297 billion and a $17 million fair value adjustment related to the unamortized gain on fixed to floating interest rate swaps terminated in September 2002 and a $12 million fair value adjustment related to current fixed to floating interest rate swaps.
(2)  Balance consists of outstanding public debt of $1.495 billion and a $34 million fair value adjustment related to the unamortized gain on fixed to floating interest rate swaps terminated in September 2002 and a $22 million fair value adjustment related to current fixed to floating interest rate swaps.
(3)  Average maturity reflects the maturity date of the Revolving credit facility which would be used to refinance the amount put to the Company.
 
Properties sold or closed in 2002 and 2003:
Selected Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items:
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Held For Sale or Sold in 2003 (1):
 
(1)  Includes St. Regis San Francisco of $13 QTD and $26 YTD
 
Summary reflects the sale of 12 North American properties in July 2003; 8 of which are now franchised.
(1)


