FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20040422080100.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 7: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
(c) Exhibits:
     99.1 Press release dated April 22, 2004.
Item 9. Regulation FD disclosure
     On April 22, 2004, Starwood announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference. *
Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 22, 2004, Starwood announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference. *
* The information furnished under Item 9 and Item 12, including the attached exhibit, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned who is duly authorized.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
APRIL 22, 2004
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT):
WHITE PLAINS, NY, April 22, 2004
First quarter 2004 Highlights:
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2004 of $0.16 compared to a loss of $0.58 in the first quarter of 2003. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.16 for the first quarter of 2004 compared to a loss of $0.08 in the first quarter of 2003. Income from continuing operations was $33 million in the first quarter of 2004 compared to a loss of $117 million in 2003. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $33 million for the first quarter of 2004 compared to a loss of $17 million in 2003. Net income (including discontinued operations) was $34 million and EPS was $0.16 in the first quarter of 2004 compared to net loss of $116 million and loss per share of $0.58 in the first quarter of 2003. Selling, general, administrative and other in the first quarter of 2004 as reflected in our new income statement format includes cost of sales from our new Bliss spa and beauty products business (the revenue from this business is included in management fees, franchise fees and other income), legal settlements, costs associated with our World Conference in January 2004 (the Company did not have a conference in 2003) and an accrual, not payment, for Mr. Sternlicht's contractual separation payment. First quarter results reflect a 6.3% tax rate. The tax rate for the first quarter of 2004 includes a $3 million net benefit primarily related to the favorable settlement of certain international tax matters.
Barry S. Sternlicht, Chairman and CEO said, "This quarter continues the momentum we saw building in our company the past six months especially now as the world returns to an accelerated travel pattern."
"It is gratifying to see the strategies and investments we have made in the recession drive our performance now. Powered by our unique global urban and resort footprint, our RevPar rebound exceeded our own "top-of-the-industry" estimates. Our results were further driven by strong growth in our franchise and management fees, by outstanding results at Starwood Vacation Ownership, and by our brands' market share gains. Our major brands, led by W, Westin and Sheraton, are gaining material market share driven by product and technology innovations, careful property renovations, and by the passion of our associates."
"I am pleased to once again be able to raise our EBITDA targets for 2004. Reflecting this expectation of a sustained recovery, 81% of our debt is now fixed rate. Our balance sheet is a major corporate asset."
"Looking forward, we have a robust pipeline of new products to further bolster our brand strength. Sheraton begins a new ad campaign on May 1st. Six Sigma will drive productivity and e-purchasing will continue to drive down our cost of goods sold. I am very pleased with our expanding and global development pipeline. Sheraton is expanding rapidly in Asia, Westin in the domestic and suburban markets, W internationally and into the resort markets, and St. Regis into the residential and resort arena. W will soon announce its first resorts in Maui, Hawaii and the Indian Ocean and its expansion into Europe and Asia. W has more than a dozen significant projects in various stages of development."
"With the economy stabilizing and our balance sheet strength, we have refocused our efforts on mining the extraordinary value of our asset base. We intend to take advantage of the property sales markets and sell additional noncore assets as the year progresses. In addition, we will embark on a series of important real estate value enhancing projects.
 
These include the conversion of a portion of our flagship St. Regis New York into residential condominiums and the demolition of the low rise south building at the Sheraton Bal Harbour in Miami, Florida for the construction and sale (in joint venture) of a St. Regis Condo/Hotel and Residences on the four acre site. We are also planning a joint venture to build a W Hotel & Residences on our nine owned acres in the Buckhead area of Atlanta. Other major projects may include the demolition of a low rise building at the Sheraton Toronto to construct a W Condo/Hotel, a similar project in Portland, Oregon on owned land, maximization of our interest in land at the Sheraton Steamboat Springs and the aggressive repositioning of the Sheraton Hyannis and Sheraton Key West. We anticipate these projects being done through joint ventures with our partners providing the majority of the capital. We will also reinvest capital for additional interval ownership projects on our oceanfront 20 acres on Princeville, Kauai, Hawaii and in our recently acquired Sheraton in Poipu, Kauai, as well as the expected conversion of a tower at the Sheraton Cancun, a fractional product on our substantial excess land at the Phoenician as well as the anticipated expansion of timeshare operations into Europe."
Concluding, Mr. Sternlicht said, "With internal growth intact and our diverse external engines, this is an exciting time for Starwood and our shareholders."
First Quarter 2004 Operating Results:
Cash flow from operations was $63 million compared to $141 million in 2003. Total Company Adjusted EBITDA was $222 million compared to $187 million in 2003. Total management and franchise fees were $66 million, up $16 million, or 32.0%, from last year and vacation ownership revenue, which exclude gains on sales of notes receivable, was up $36 million when compared to 2003.
REVPAR for Same-Store Owned Hotels worldwide and in North America increased 11.6% and 9.4%, respectively, when compared to 2003. Revenue from transient travel was up 14.9% in North America when compared to 2003. For the sixth quarter in a row, total Company market share in North America increased for the Company's owned and managed hotels as well as system-wide (owned, managed and franchised) hotels. REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 12.2% at St. Regis/Luxury Collection,11.8% at W, 10.3% at Sheraton, and 5.8% at Westin. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at the Company's owned hotels in New York, San Francisco, Houston, Washington D.C., Maui and Philadelphia. REVPAR was weaker at owned hotels in San Diego, Chicago and New Orleans. Internationally, Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 18.8%, with Europe up 13.7%, Asia Pacific up 50.9%, and Latin America up 17.6%. Excluding the favorable effects of foreign exchange, REVPAR increased 3.9% internationally.
System-wide branded REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels in North America increased 8.7%: W Hotels +11.9%, Westin +10.8%, St. Regis/Luxury Collection +10.3%, Sheraton +7.5%, and Four Points by Sheraton +3.7%.
Starwood Vacation Ownership:
Revenues from the vacation ownership business increased 39.1% to $128 million in the first quarter of 2004 when compared to 2003 as contract sales were up 64.3% reflecting strong demand at our resorts in Maui, Scottsdale, Mission Hills and Orlando. The
 
average price per timeshare unit sold increased approximately 14.8% to $22,756, and the number of contracts sold increased approximately 43.1% in the first quarter of 2004 when compared to 2003. During the first quarters of 2004 and 2003, the Company did not have any sales of vacation ownership receivables.
Development:
During the first quarter, the Company signed 10 hotel management and franchise contracts (representing approximately 2,000 rooms), including the Sheraton Shenzhen in Shenzhen, China (320 rooms), and the Westin Camporeal Golf & Spa Resort in Turcifal, Portugal (150 rooms), and opened eight new hotels and resorts including: the Sheraton Tunis Hotel (Tunis, Tunisia, 271 rooms), and the Sheraton Hanoi (Hanoi, Vietnam, 156 rooms). The Company expects to open 18 new full service hotels and resorts (approximately 6,000 rooms) around the world in 2004. The Company had approximately 56 hotels and approximately 15,000 rooms in its active global development pipeline at March 31, 2004 with roughly one half of that number in international locations.
Capital:
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $50 million in hotel assets including $7 million for the renovation of the Company's flagship Sheraton Hotel and Towers in New York and $5 million for the continued renovation of the Phoenician in Phoenix, Arizona; $19 million in VOI capital assets (primarily inventory build), including VOI construction at Westin Ka'anapali Ocean Resort Villas in Maui, Hawaii. Additionally during the quarter, development capital of $132 million included the acquisition of the 413-room Sheraton Kauai Resort for approximately $40 million, the acquisition of Bliss World, LLC for approximately $25 million, a $20 million investment in the St. Regis Anguilla, an approximate $24 million investment for approximately 25% of the limited partnership interests in the Westin Hotels Limited Partnership (which owns the Westin Michigan Avenue in Chicago, IL) and the ongoing development of the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco (269 rooms and 102 condominium units). To date, the Company has invested $155 million in the St. Regis Museum Tower Project, a mixed-use project, which is expected to open in mid-2005. The Company expects to realize gross proceeds of approximately $200 million from the sale of the project's condominiums. The Company expects to begin taking reservations for these condominiums this quarter.
Dividend:
On January 21, 2004 the Company paid its annual dividend of $0.84 per share to shareholders of record on December 31, 2003.
Balance Sheet:
At March 31, 2004, the Company had total debt of $4.602 billion and cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash) of $402 million, or net debt of $4.200 billion, compared to net debt of $4.118 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of 2003. In addition, the Company has an approximate $200 million debt investment in Le Meridien hotels.
 
In order to increase the Company's fixed to floating debt ratio, during the quarter, the Company terminated approximately $1 billion of fixed to floating interest rate swaps and entered into $300 million of new fixed to floating interest rate swaps. The Company received $33 million from the termination of the $1 billion of interest rate swaps. After giving effect to these new swaps, at March 31, 2004, debt was approximately 81% fixed rate and 19% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 5.8 years with a weighted average interest rate of 5.55%. The Company had cash (including restricted cash) and availability under domestic and international revolving credit facilities of approximately $1.3 billion.
Outlook:
All comments in the following paragraphs and certain comments in this release above are deemed to be forward-looking statements. These statements reflect expectations of the Company's performance given its current base of assets and its current understanding of external economic and geo-political environments. Actual results may differ materially.
For the second quarter of 2004, if REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America is up 11%  12% versus the same period a year ago:
For the full year 2004, if REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increases approximately 8%  9% versus the full year 2003:
 
Special Items:
The Company had two special items in the first quarter of 2004 which, when considered together, had no impact on the Company's results. In the first quarter of 2003, the Company recorded $100 million of net charges (after-tax) for special items.
The following represents a reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations before special items to income (loss) from continuing operations after special items (in millions, except per share data):
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
 
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the first quarter financial results at 12:00 noon (EDT) today. The conference call will be available through simultaneous webcast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at www.starwood.com. A replay of the conference call will also be available from 3:00 p.m. (EDT) today through 12:00 midnight (EDT) Thursday, April 29, on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at (719) 457-0820 access code 685746).
(
Definitions:
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's ability to service debt, fund capital expenditures, pay income taxes and pay cash distributions. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA ("Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the total Company as well as for individual properties or groups of properties because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as the special items described on page 6 of this release, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. Due to recent guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company now does not reflect such items when calculating EBITDA, however the Company continues to adjust for these special items and refers to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding hotels sold to date and under significant renovation or for which comparable results are not available. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
All references to contract sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with more than 740 properties in more than 80 countries and
 
110,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. With internationally renowned brands, Starwood is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts including: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, W brands, as well as Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwood.com.
(Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the timing and robustness of a recovery from the current global economic downturn, the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, relationships with customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions, and other circumstances and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.)
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Balance consists of outstanding public debt of $1.047 billion and a $21 million fair value adjustment related to the unamortized gain on fixed to floating interest rate swaps terminated in September 2002 and March 2004.
(2) Balance consists of outstanding public debt of $1.495 billion and a $45 million fair value adjustment related to the unamortized gain on fixed to floating interest rate swaps terminated in September 2002 and March 2004 and an ($8) million fair value adjustment related to current fixed to floating interest rate swaps.
(3) Average maturity reflects the maturity date of the revolving credit facility which would be used to refinance the amount put to the Company.
 
Properties without comparable results in 2004:
Properties sold or closed in 2003:
Selected Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items:
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Sold in 2003
(1)
:
 
 
 
The following reclassifications have been made to the above consolidated statements of income, to conform to the current year presentation:


