FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20050428083044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2005, Starwood announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned who is duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
April 28, 2005
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT):
WHITE PLAINS, NY, April 28, 2005
First Quarter 2005 Highlights:
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2005 of $0.36 compared to $0.16 in the first quarter of 2004. Excluding special items, primarily related to a $2 million state tax refund, EPS from continuing operations was $0.35 for the first quarter of 2005 compared to $0.16 in the first quarter of 2004. Income from continuing operations was $79 million in the first quarter of 2005 compared to $33 million in 2004. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $77 million for the first quarter of 2005 compared to $33 million in 2004. Net income (after discontinued operations) was $79 million and EPS was $0.36 in the first quarter of 2005 compared to $34 million and EPS of $0.16 in the first quarter of 2004. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2005 was 21.3%. The tax rate and thereby income from continuing operations benefited from a state tax refund of $2 million during the quarter related to tax years prior to the 1995 split-up of ITT Corporation.
Steven J. Heyer, CEO, said: "For ten quarters in a row our market share has been improving, even as we took the opportunity to renovate key hotels this quarter, including another 500 rooms and all of the ballroom and group meeting spaces at the Sheraton New York. We are moving full speed ahead with our brand-building efforts and service innovation, which I believe will lead to further share gains in coming years. I'm excited about the progress we're making, the opportunity to take our expertise to other price points and brands and the additional talent we've brought in to lead these initiatives."
"Our global development pipeline continues to grow and I'm particularly pleased about our industry leading growth in China, where we currently have 19 hotels open and 13 more under development. In addition, we're pleased with our announcement of our non-binding agreement to acquire the Le Meridien brand and related management and franchise business."
"At the same time, we continue to evaluate our current portfolio of owned assets with a focus on the highest potential use of the real estate, as our announcement of the redevelopment of the Sheraton Bal Harbour into a St. Regis Residence & Hotel illustrates. We're also focused on assets sales where that makes sense and we expect to be able to announce some developments on that front in the second or third quarter."
"Demand for our brands is strong and supply remains constrained, which means that we continue to have above average pricing power. We clearly expect this to continue for the balance of 2005 and into 2006."
 
Operating Results:
First Quarter Ended March 31, 2005
Cash flow from operations was $59 million compared to $63 million in 2004. Total Company Adjusted EBITDA was $288 million compared to $222 million in 2004.
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels
REVPAR for Same-Store Owned Hotels worldwide and in North America increased 9.7% and 8.0%, respectively, when compared to 2004. REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 14.1% at St. Regis/Luxury Collection, 13.9% at W, 7.7% at Westin, and 5.1% at Sheraton. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at the Company's owned hotels in New York, Boston, Ft. Lauderdale, Denver, Los Angeles, Maui, New Orleans, San Diego and Washington D.C. Revenue from transient travel was up 12.0% in North America when compared to 2004. Results in North America were negatively impacted by significant renovations at the Sheraton Hotel and Towers in New York where the ballrooms and 500 guest rooms were closed, the Westin in Seattle, and the Sheraton Centre Toronto Hotel in Toronto. Excluding these three owned hotels, REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 9.2% when compared to 2004. Internationally, Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 14.5%, with Latin America up 19.5% (REVPAR in owned hotels in Argentina and resort areas in Mexico was particularly strong), Asia Pacific up 15.4%, and Europe up 12.3%. Excluding the favorable effects of foreign exchange, REVPAR increased 9.8% internationally.
Total revenues at Same-Store Owned Hotels worldwide increased 6.0%, to $793 million when compared to $748 million in 2004 while costs and expenses at the hotels increased 5.6% to $623 million in 2005 compared to $590 million in 2004. Total revenues at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 3.8% to $574 million in 2005 when compared to $552 million in 2004 while costs and expenses at these hotels increased 3.5% to $451 million when compared to $435 million in 2004. As discussed earlier, results in North America were negatively impacted by renovations at key hotels during the quarter.
System-wide REVPAR; Management/Franchise Fees
System-wide (owned, managed and franchised) branded REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels in North America increased 8.5%; W Hotels 14.0%, Westin 9.6%, Sheraton 7.8%, Four Points by Sheraton 7.5%, and St. Regis/Luxury Collection 6.3%. For the tenth quarter in a row, total Company market share in North America increased for the Company's owned and managed hotels as well as for system-wide hotels. Total third-party management and franchise fees were $77 million, up $10 million, or 15%, from last year.
Distribution
Starwood's central distribution systems gross bookings increased approximately 10% for the first quarter 2005 when compared to the same period in 2004. Gross online bookings through proprietary branded websites increased 33% for the first quarter of 2005 as compared to the same period in 2004, with gross dollar bookings from the proprietary branded sites increasing 46%. Gross online dollar bookings represented approximately
 
12% of the overall gross dollar bookings in the first quarter of 2005, with 75% of that coming from our proprietary branded websites, as compared to 9% of overall gross dollar bookings, with 71% of that from proprietary branded websites in the first quarter of 2004.
Vacation Ownership and Residential
Vacation ownership and residential revenue, which excludes gains on sales of notes receivable (there were no sales of notes receivable in the first quarter of 2005 or 2004), was up $103 million, or 80% to $231 million in the first quarter of 2005 when compared to 2004 primarily due to residential sales at the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco and vacation ownership sales at our resorts in Aspen, Maui, Orlando and Scottsdale. Contract sales, excluding fractional sales at the St. Regis Aspen and residential sales at the St. Regis in San Francisco, were up 11.7%. The average price per timeshare unit sold increased approximately 4.4% to $23,753, and the number of contracts signed increased approximately 7.0% in the first quarter of 2005 when compared to 2004.
In December 2004, the Company completed the conversion of 98 guest rooms at the St. Regis in Aspen, Colorado into 25 fractional units, which are being sold in four week intervals, and 20 new hotel rooms. In the first quarter of 2005, the Company recognized revenues of $17 million related to this project. Also, in the first quarter of 2005, the Company continued selling condominiums at the St. Regis Museum Tower which is under construction in San Francisco, and recognized revenues of approximately $44 million.
In addition to its robust pipeline of existing vacation ownership inventory, the Company continues to evaluate its existing owned real estate for potential conversion to vacation ownership, fractional, or residential projects. The Company is also working with its business partners to develop similar conversion opportunities at managed hotels.
Earlier this month, the Company announced its expansion plans related to its vacation ownership business, including new phases at the Westin Ka'anapali Ocean Resort Villas in Maui, Hawaii, the Westin Mission Hills Resort & Villas in Rancho Mirage, California, the Westin Kierland Villas in Scottsdale, Arizona, the Sheraton Broadway Plantation in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, the Harborside Resort at Atlantis, Nassau, Bahamas, and the Sheraton Vistana Villages in Orlando, Florida.
In addition to the expansion at the existing properties above, Starwood Vacation Ownership is in the predevelopment phase of several new vacation ownership resorts including one in Princeville on the island of Kauai, Hawaii and another in Cancun, Mexico. The Company is also working on its second St. Regis-branded fractional resort in Punta Mita, Mexico.
Brand Development/Unit Growth
During the first quarter, the Company signed 14 full service hotel management and franchise contracts (representing approximately 4,000 rooms) including the Sheraton Shanghai Hotel and Residences, Pudong (Shanghai, China, 509 rooms), Westin Nanjing (Nanjing, China, 300 rooms), Sheraton Poznan (Poznan, Poland, 183 rooms) and The St. Regis Resort & Residences, Deer Crest (Deer Valley, Utah, 183 rooms) and opened 5 new hotels and resorts, including Sheraton West Des Moines (West Des Moines, Iowa,
 
285 rooms) and Sheraton San Diego Hotel, Mission Valley (San Diego, California, 260 rooms). Ten properties (representing approximately 2,800 rooms) were removed from the system during the quarter (4 Four Points, 4 Sheratons, 1 St. Regis, and 1 other). Including openings during the first quarter, the Company expects to open approximately 40 new full-service hotels and resorts (approximately 8,700 rooms) around the world in 2005. The Company had approximately 190 full service hotels and approximately 47,000 rooms in its active global development pipeline at March 31, 2005, with roughly half of that number in international locations. In 2005, the Company plans to open 3 new Bliss spas in W hotels in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Chicago and 2 new Remede Spas in St. Regis hotels in San Francisco and New York with several others in various planning stages.
Capital:
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $58 million in renovations of hotel assets including construction capital at the St. Regis in Aspen, Colorado, the Boston Park Plaza, the Seattle Westin, the Sheraton Centre Toronto Hotel, and the Sheraton Hotel and Towers in New York. Investment spending on gross VOI inventory was $33 million, which was more than offset by cost of sales of $47 million during the quarter. The inventory spend included VOI construction at the Westin Ka'anapali Ocean Resort Villas in Maui, Hawaii, the Sheraton Vistana Villages in Orlando, Florida, the Westin Kierland Villas in Scottsdale, Arizona, and the Westin Mission Hills Resort in Rancho Mirage, California and construction of fractional units at the St. Regis in Aspen, Colorado. Additionally during the quarter, further investment spending of $71 million included the ongoing development of the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco (260 hotel rooms and 102 condominium units). To date, the Company has invested $251 million in the St. Regis Museum Tower project, which is expected to open in the summer of 2005. The Company expects to realize gross proceeds of approximately $200 million from the sale of the project's condominiums and has recognized approximately $59 million in revenues to date.
Balance Sheet:
At March 31, 2005, the Company had total debt of $4.397 billion and cash and cash equivalents (including $415 million of restricted cash) of $728 million, or net debt of $3.669 billion, compared to net debt of $3.759 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of 2004. In addition, the Company continues to have an approximate $200 million investment in the senior debt of Le Meridien hotels.
At March 31, 2005, debt was approximately 76% fixed rate and 24% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 4.8 years with a weighted average interest rate of 5.95%. The Company had cash (including total restricted cash) and availability under domestic and international revolving credit facilities of approximately $1.7 billion.
Outlook:
All comments in the following paragraphs and certain comments in this release above are deemed to be forward-looking statements. These statements reflect expectations of the Company's performance given its current base of assets and its current understanding of external economic and geo-political environments. Actual results may differ materially.
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2005, if REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increases approximately 10% -12% versus the same period in 2004:
For the full year 2005, if REVPAR at Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increases approximately 9%  11% versus the full year 2004:
 
Special Items:
The Company recorded net credits of $2 million (after-tax) for special items in the first quarter of 2005. In the first quarter of 2004, the Company recorded two special items which, when considered together, had no impact on the Company's results.
Special items in the first quarter of 2005 primarily relate to a state tax refund related to tax years prior to the 1995 split-up of ITT Corporation and the reversal of a reserve related to the financing of a hotel previously sold, which is no longer required as the loan has been repaid, offset in part by the net loss from the sale of two hotels.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations after special items (in millions, except per share data):
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the first quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) today. The conference call will be available through simultaneous webcast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at . A replay of the conference call will also be available from 1:30
www.starwoodhotels.com
 
p.m. (EDT) today through Thursday, May 5 at 12:00 midnight (EDT) on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at (719) 457-0820 (access code 1694601).
Definitions:
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations. All references to "net capital expenditures" means gross capital expenditures for timeshare and fractional inventory net of cost of sales. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's ability to service debt, fund capital expenditures, pay income taxes and pay cash distributions. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA (i.e., "Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the total Company as well as for individual properties or groups of properties because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as the special items described on page 7 of this release and/or revenues and costs and expenses from hotels sold, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also used Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. Due to guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company now does not reflect such items when calculating EBITDA; however, the Company continues to adjust for these special items and refers to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding hotels sold to date, undergoing significant repositionings or for which comparable results are not available (i.e., hotels not owned during the entire periods presented or closed due to seasonality.) REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
All references to contract sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with approximately 750 properties in more than 80 countries and 120,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. With internationally renowned
 
brands, Starwood corporation is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts including: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, and W, Hotels and Resorts as well as Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com.
(Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the timing and robustness of the apparent recovery in the United States from the recent economic downturn and the prospects for improved performance in other parts of the world, the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, relationships with associates, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions, and other circumstances and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.)
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Balance consists of outstanding public debt of $1.047 billion and an $8 million fair value adjustment related to the unamortized gain on fixed to floating interest rate swaps terminated in September 2002 and March 2004.
(2) Balance consists of outstanding public debt of $1.496 billion and a $29 million fair value adjustment related to the unamortized gain on fixed to floating interest rate swaps terminated in September 2002 and March 2004 and a ($22) million fair value adjustment related to current fixed to floating interest rate swaps.
 
Properties without comparable results in 2005:
Properties sold or closed in 2005 and 2004:
Selected Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items:
 
(1) Represents gross inventory capital expenditures of $33 million in the three months ended March 31, 2005, less cost of sales of $47 million in the three months ended March 31, 2005.
 


