FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20060413172813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Termination of the Amended and Restated Intercompany Agreement
On April 7, 2006, in connection with the Host Transaction (as defined in Item 2.01 below), Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), and Starwood Hotels & Resorts, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the ""), entered into an agreement (the "") terminating effective as of 4:01 pm (eastern time) on April 7, 2006 (the ""), the Amended and Restated Intercompany Agreement, dated as of January 2, 1999 (the ""), between the Corporation and the Trust. Following the Depair Effective Time, shares of the Corporation's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), became transferable separately from the Trust's Class B shares, par value $0.01 per share (""). A copy of the Termination Agreement is attached as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Corporation
Trust
Termination Agreement
Depair Effective Time
Intercompany Agreement
Starwood Common Stock
Class B Shares
Amendment and Restatement of the Corporation's Rights Agreement
On April 7, 2006, the Rights Agreement dated as of March 15, 1999, as previously amended, between the Corporation and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Rights Agent, was amended and restated following the Depair Effective Time in order to remove all references to the Trust, Class B Shares and paired shares. A copy of the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of April 7, 2006 is attached as Exhibit 4.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Second Indenture Supplement
On April 9, 2006, in connection with an internal restructuring of the Corporation and its subsidiaries undertaken in preparation for the Host Transaction, Sheraton Holding Corporation, a Nevada corporation and a subsidiary of the Corporation (""), transferred substantially all of its assets to the Corporation and, concurrently with such transfer, the Corporation, SHC and Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, entered into a Second Indenture Supplement (the ""), amending the Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1995, as amended (the ""), pursuant to which SHC previously issued $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7/% Debentures due November 15, 2015 and $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7/% Debentures due November 15, 2025 (collectively, the ""). Pursuant to the Indenture Supplement, the Corporation assumed all the obligations of SHC under the Indenture and the Securities, and SHC was released from all obligations thereunder. Pursuant to Article Sixteen of the Indenture (the ""), the Corporation previously guaranteed the Securities for so long as a majority of the voting stock of SHC was beneficially owned by the Corporation. The Starwood Guaranty terminated in accordance with its terms on April 10, 2006, upon the acquisition by Host Marriott Corporation ("Host") of all the capital stock of SHC as described in Item 2.01 below. A copy of the Indenture Supplement is attached as Exhibit 4.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
SHC
Indenture Supplement
Indenture
3
8
3
4
Securities
Starwood Guaranty
Amendment to Various Exchange Rights Agreements
On April 10, 2006, in connection with the Termination Agreement and the Host Transaction, the Corporation, the Trust, SLT Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (" "), and SLC Operating Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (""), entered into amendments (collectively, the "") of (i) the Exchange Rights Agreement as of January 1, 1995 among the Corporation, the Trust, SLT, SLC, and the other parties thereto, (ii) the Exchange Rights Agreement dated as of June 3, 1996 among the Corporation, the Trust, SLT, SLC, and the other parties thereto, and (iii) the Units Exchange Rights Agreement dated as of February 14, 1997 among the Corporation, the Trust, SLT, SLC, and the other parties thereto. The Exchange Rights Amendments removed all references to the Trust, Class B Shares and paired shares. Copies of the Exchange Rights Amendments are attached as Exhibits 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
SLT
SLC
Exchange Rights Amendments
Table of Contents
Amendments to Employee Benefit Plans
The Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Savings and Retirement Plan, 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives, Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and 2005 Annual Incentive Plan Amended were each amended to reflect the depairing of Starwood Common Stock from Class B Shares. Copies of the amendments are attached as Exhibits 99.1  99.5 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
In preparation for the previously announced transaction with Host and the acquisition by a subsidiary of Host of the Trust pursuant to the Master Agreement (as defined in Item 2.01 below), the Intercompany Agreement was terminated pursuant to the Termination Agreement and the Class B Shares were depaired from the Starwood Common Stock effective as of the Depair Effective Time. As a result of the depairing, the shares of Starwood Common Stock trade alone under the symbol "HOT" on the New York Stock Exchange (the ""). Neither paired shares nor Class B Shares are listed or trade on the NYSE.
NYSE
The information contained in Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On April 10, 2006, the Corporation announced that it had completed the sale of certain assets and entities owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation that collectively own 25 domestic hotels and foreign hotels pursuant to the terms of the master agreement and plan of merger dated as of November 14, 2005, as amended on March 24, 2006 (the ""), among Host, Host Marriott, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership and a wholly owned operating subsidiary of Host (""), Horizon Supernova Merger Sub, L.L.C., a Maryland limited liability company wholly owned by Host OP, Horizon SLT Merger Sub, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, the Corporation, the Trust, SHC and SLT (the ""). The Master Agreement is attached as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The Amendment Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2006, among Host, Host OP, Horizon Supernova Merger Sub, L.L.C., Horizon SLT Merger Sub, L.P., the Corporation, the Trust, SHC and SLT is attached as Exhibit 2.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
[three]
Master Agreement
Host OP
Host Transaction
In accordance with the terms of the Master Agreement, on April 10, 2006, among other things, (i) a wholly owned subsidiary of Host OP was merged with and into the Trust (the ""), with the Trust surviving as a subsidiary of Host OP, (ii) all the capital stock of SHC was sold to Host, and (iii) Host OP acquired four Starwood domestic hotels in a separate purchase structured to allow Host OP to complete like-kind exchange transactions for federal income tax purposes (collectively, the "").
REIT Merger
Closing Transactions
At the effective time and as a result of the REIT Merger (i) each (x) Class B Share and (y) Class A Exchangeable Preferred Share, par value of $0.01 per share ("Class A EPS"), of the Trust issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the REIT Merger was converted into and became exchangeable for 0.6122 shares of Host common stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), and $0.503 in cash from Host and (ii) the Class A shares, par value $0.01 per share (""), of the Trust issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the REIT Merger were converted into and become exchangeable for an aggregate of $24,594,994.26 in cash from Host, subject to adjustment by, among other things, (A) the amount of working capital at closing, (B) changes in the amount of assumed indebtedness, (C) the agreed value of any hotels that are removed from the Closing Transactions prior to closing and (D) certain capital expenditures. The exchange of shares in the REIT Merger as contemplated by the Master Agreement is expected to be a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Host Common Stock
Class A Shares
As of April 10, 2006, 2.4489 Class A Shares were outstanding and held by the Corporation, approximately 212,957,564 Class B Shares were outstanding and 315,532 Class A EPS were outstanding.
The total value of the transaction for the 35 hotels in the entire portfolio (including cash, stock, and the assumption of debt) is approximately $4.23 billion. Starwood shareholders have directly received $2.8 billion or 66% of the proceeds in the form of 2,963,623 shares of Host common stock valued at $2.68 billion based on Host's $20.53 closing price on Friday, April 17, 2006, and $119 million in cash. The Corporation has received approximately $738 million today, $600 million in cash, $77 million in the form of property level debt which Host has assumed and $61 million in Host common stock. The remaining proceeds related to seven hotels in Europe and Asia, where the closing has been deferred as a result of certain notice periods and approvals that have not yet lapsed or been received. These proceeds will be received by the Corporation in the form of $661 million in cash and $31 million in the form of property level debt which Host will assume when those sales are closed, subject to adjustments similar to the ones set forth above.
Table of Contents
A copy of the press release issued by the Corporation on April 10, 2005 is attached as Exhibit 99.6 hereto and is incorporated in this Item 2.01 by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information contained in Item 1.01 concerning the Corporations's direct financial obligations pursuant to the Indenture Supplement is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Articles Supplementary Reclassifying Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
On April 7, 2006, in connection with the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement and in order to remove references to the Trust and Class B Shares in the Articles Supplementary filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on March 15, 1999 classifying and designating 1,000,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation, par value $0.01 per share (""), the Corporation filed with the Securities Exchange Commission Articles Supplementary reclassifying and redesignating the Series A Preferred Stock as shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation, par value $0.01 per share, with the preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption stated in the Articles Supplementary filed April 7, 2006 (the ""). A copy of the Articles Supplementary is attached as Exhibit C to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, filed as Exhibit 3.1 hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Series A Preferred Stock
Articles Supplementary
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Corporation
On April 10, 2006, in connection with the Host Transaction, the Corporation amended and restated its bylaws in order to remove references to the Trust, Class B Shares and paired shares. A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Corporation is attached as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The press release, dated April 10, 2006, which is attached as Exhibit 99.6 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(b)(1) .
Pro Forma Financial Information
Pro forma financial information furnished pursuant to this Item 9.01(b)(1) is attached as Exhibit 99.7 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 13, 2006
Table of Contents
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.2
     In addition to the required principal office, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Corporation") may have such offices at such places, both within and without the State of Maryland, as the Board of Directors from time to time determines or as the business of the Corporation from time to time requires.
     Annual meetings of the stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time and at such place as is designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting. At each annual meeting the stockholders shall elect directors and shall transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
Section 1. Annual Meetings.
     . (a) General. The Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or any two or more directors may call special meetings of the stockholders. Subject to subsection (b) of this Section 2, special meetings of stockholders shall also be called by the Secretary upon the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting. Such request shall state with reasonable specificity the purpose of such meeting and the matters proposed to be acted on at such meeting.
Section 2. Special Meetings
     (b) Stockholder Requested Special Meetings. (1) Any stockholder of record seeking to have stockholders request a special meeting shall, by sending written notice to the Secretary (the "Record Date Request Notice") by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date to determine the stockholders entitled to request a special meeting (the "Request Record Date"). The Record Date Request Notice shall set forth the purpose of the meeting and the matters proposed to be acted on at it, shall be signed by one or more stockholders of record as of the date of signature (or their agents duly authorized in writing), shall bear the date of signature of each such stockholder (or such agent) and shall set forth all information relating to each such stockholder that must be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A (or any successor provision) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Upon receiving the Record Date Request Notice, the Board of Directors may fix a Request Record Date. The Request Record Date shall not precede and shall not be more than ten Business Days (as defined below) after the close of business on the date upon which the resolution fixing the Request Record Date is adopted by the Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors, within ten Business Days after the date on which a valid Record Date Request Notice is received, fails to adopt a resolution fixing the Request Record Date and make a public announcement of such Request Record Date, the Request Record Date shall be the close of business on the tenth Business Day after the first date on which the Record Date Request Notice is received by the Secretary.
     (2) In order for any stockholder to request a special meeting, one or more written requests for a
 
special meeting signed by stockholders of record (or their agents duly authorized in writing) as of the Request Record Date entitled to cast not less than a majority (the "Special Meeting Percentage") of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting (the "Special Meeting Request"), shall be delivered to the Secretary. The Special Meeting Request shall set forth with reasonable specificity the purpose of the meeting and the matters proposed to be acted on at it (which shall be limited to those lawful matters set forth in the Record Date Request Notice received by the Secretary of the Corporation), shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder (or such agent) signing such request, shall set forth the name and address, as they appear in the Corporation's books, of each stockholder signing such request (or on whose behalf the Special Meeting Request is signed) and the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation that are owned of record and beneficially by each such stockholder, shall be sent to the Secretary by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall be received by the Secretary within 60 days after the Request Record Date. Any requesting stockholder may revoke his, her or its request for a special meeting at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary.
     (3) The Secretary shall inform the requesting stockholders of the reasonably estimated cost of preparing and mailing the notice of meeting (including the Corporation's proxy materials). The Secretary shall not be required to call a special meeting upon stockholder request unless, in addition to the documents required by paragraph (2) of this Section 2(b), the Secretary receives from the requesting stockholders payment of such reasonably estimated cost of preparing and mailing the meeting notice.
     (4) Except as provided in the next sentence, any special meeting shall be held at such place, date and time as may be designated by the Chief Executive Officer, President, Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board or two or more directors, whoever has called the meeting. In the case of any special meeting called by the Secretary upon the request of stockholders (a "Stockholder Requested Meeting"), such meeting shall be held at such place, date and time as may be designated by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that the date of any Stockholder Requested Meeting shall be not more than 75 days after the Meeting Record Date (as defined below); and provided further that if the Board of Directors fails to designate, within ten Business Days after the date that a valid Special Meeting Request is delivered to the Secretary (the "Delivery Date"), a date and time for a Stockholder Requested Meeting, then such meeting shall be held at 2:00 p.m. local time on the 100 day after the Delivery Date or, if such 100 day is not a Business Day, on the first preceding Business Day; and provided further that in the event that the Board of Directors fails to designate a place for a Stockholder Requested Meeting within ten Business Days after the Delivery Date, then such meeting shall be held at the principal executive offices of the Corporation. In fixing a date for any special meeting, the Chief Executive Officer, President, Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board, or the two or more directors who called the meeting, may consider such factors as he, she or it deems relevant within the good faith exercise of business judgment, including, without limitation, the nature of the matters to be considered, the facts and circumstances surrounding any request for meeting and any plan of the Board of Directors to call an annual meeting or a special meeting. In the case of any Stockholder Requested Meeting, (i) the record date for such meeting (the "Meeting Record Date") shall be not later than the 25 day after the Delivery Date and (ii) if the Board of Directors fails to fix the Meeting Record Date within 25 days after the Delivery Date, then the close of business on such 25 day after the Delivery Date shall be the Meeting Record Date.
th
th
th
th
     (5) If at any time as a result of written revocations of requests for the special meeting, stockholders of record (or their agents duly authorized in writing) as of the Request Record Date entitled to cast less than the Special Meeting Request Percentage shall have delivered and not revoked requests for a special meeting, the Secretary may refrain from mailing the notice of the meeting or, if the notice of the meeting has been mailed, the Secretary may revoke the notice of the meeting at any time before ten days before the meeting provided that the Secretary has first sent to all other requesting stockholders written notice of such revocation and of intention to revoke the notice of the meeting. Any request for a special meeting received after a revocation of a notice of a meeting shall be considered a request for a new special meeting.
     (6) The Corporation may engage regionally or nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections to act as the agent of the Corporation for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of any purported Special Meeting Request received by the Secretary. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no such purported request shall be deemed to have been delivered to the Secretary until the earlier of (i) five Business Days after receipt by the Secretary of such purported request and (ii) such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the valid requests received by the Secretary represent at least a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of stock that would be entitled to vote at
 
such meeting. Nothing contained in this paragraph (6) shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any request, whether during or after such five Business Day period, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
     (7) For purposes of these Bylaws, "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of Maryland are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, if as of the date a stockholder request for a special meeting is received or within twenty (20) days thereafter, the Board of Directors has called or calls a meeting of stockholders (whether annual or special) for a purpose or purposes other than the purpose(s) stated in the stockholder request, the Board of Directors need not call, and the Secretary need not give notice of, a separate and additional meeting of stockholders if (i) the Board of Directors determines in good faith that calling such a separate and additional meeting would require the Corporation to incur undue cost and expense, and (ii) the Secretary notifies both the requesting stockholder(s) and all other stockholders entitled to vote, within twenty (20) days after the Corporation receives the stockholder request, that the matter(s) proposed by the requesting stockholder(s) to be considered at a special meeting may be proposed and considered at the meeting otherwise called by the Board of Directors. In addition, if not later than the thirtieth (30th) day prior to the date on which any special meeting called by the Board of Directors pursuant to a stockholder request is to be held, the Board of Directors determines in good faith to present for consideration by the stockholders of the Corporation one or more matters other than those proposed by the requesting stockholder(s) to be so considered, the Board of Directors may postpone the previously called special meeting for a period of up to sixty (60) days following the date on which notice of such postponement is given. Notice of such postponement and of the additional matter(s) to be considered at such meeting shall be given by the Secretary not later than the thirtieth (30th) day prior to the originally scheduled meeting date.
     Meetings of the stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or by the President (as determined by the Board of Directors) or, if the Chairman of the Board and the President are not present, by a Vice President, or, if a Vice President is not present, such person who is chosen by the Board of Directors, or, if none, by a person to be chosen at the meeting by stockholders present in person or by proxy who own a majority of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote and be represented at such meeting. The secretary of meetings shall be the Secretary of the Corporation, or an Assistant Secretary or such other person as may be chosen by the Board of Directors, or, if none, such person who is chosen by the chairman of the meeting.
Section 3. Presiding Officers.
     The presiding officer at a meeting of the stockholders shall have all power and authority vested in a presiding officer by law or practice, including, without limitation, the authority to determine whether the nomination of any person is made in compliance with applicable provisions of these Bylaws (and to refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in such compliance); to determine whether any item of business proposed to be brought before the meeting has been properly brought (and to declare that any business not so brought shall be disregarded and not transacted); to establish rules pertaining to reasonable time limits and the amount of time that may be taken up in remarks by any stockholder or group of stockholders and otherwise pertaining to the conduct of the meeting; and to otherwise decide all matters relating to the conduct of the meeting. The presiding officer may appoint a parliamentarian and one or more sergeants-at-arms. The parliamentarian may advise the presiding officer upon matters relating to the conduct of the stockholders' meeting. The sergeant- or sergeants-at-arms shall have authority to take any and all actions that such persons deem necessary or appropriate to assure that the meeting is conducted with decorum and in an orderly manner, including, without limitation, authority to expel or cause the expulsion of any person who the presiding officer determines is failing to comply with the rules concerning the conduct of, or is otherwise disrupting, the meeting.
     Not less than ten nor more than 90 days before each meeting of stockholders, the secretary shall give to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting and to each stockholder not entitled to vote who is entitled to notice of the meeting written or printed notice stating the time and place of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting or as otherwise may be required by any statute, the purpose for which the meeting is called, either by mail, by presenting it to such stockholder personally, by leaving it at the stockholder's residence or usual place of business or by any other means permitted by Maryland law. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to
Section 4. Notice.
 
be given when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the stockholder at the stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid.
     Subject to Section 10(a) of this Article II, any business of the Corporation may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders without being specifically designated in the notice, except such business as is required by any statute to be stated in such notice. No business shall be transacted at a special meeting of stockholders except as specifically designated in the notice.
     At any meeting of stockholders, the presence in person or by proxy of stockholders entitled to cast a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting on any matter shall constitute a quorum; but this section shall not affect any requirement under any statute or the charter of the Corporation for the vote necessary for the adoption of any measure. If, however, such quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting in accordance with Section 7 of this Article II.
Section 5. Quorum.
     The stockholders present either in person or by proxy, at a meeting which has been duly called and convened, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
     A plurality of all the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders duly called and at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient to elect a director. Each share may be voted for as many individuals as there are directors to be elected and for whose election the share is entitled to be voted. A majority of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders duly called and at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient to approve any other matter which may properly come before the meeting, unless more than a majority of the votes cast is required by statute or by the charter of the Corporation. Unless otherwise provided by statute or by the charter, each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders. Voting on any question or in any election may be viva voce unless the chairman of the meeting shall order that voting be by ballot.
Section 6. Voting.
     Whether or not a quorum is present at any meeting of the stockholders, the presiding officer at the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time to a date not more than 120 days after the original record date without notice other than announcement at the meeting, if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. Any business which might have been transacted at a meeting as originally called may be transacted at any meeting held after adjournment as provided in this Section 7, if a quorum is present in person or by proxy at such reconvened meeting.
Section 7. Adjournments.
     Whenever the vote or consent of stockholders is required or permitted, such vote or consent may be given by a stockholder in person or by proxy. The appointment of a proxy or proxies shall be made by any means permitted by law. No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven (11) months from the date of its execution or authorization unless the stockholder executing or authorizing it specifies therein the length of time for which it is to continue in force. At a meeting of stockholders all questions concerning the qualification of voters, the validity of proxies, and the acceptance or rejection of votes, shall be decided by the secretary of the meeting unless inspectors of election are appointed pursuant to Section 9 of this Article II, in which event such inspectors shall pass upon all questions and shall have all other duties specified in said section.
Section 8. Proxies.
     In advance of any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors may appoint any one or more persons (other than nominees for office) to act as inspectors of election at the meeting or any adjournment thereof. If no inspector of election is so appointed, the presiding officer of the meeting may, and on the request of any stockholder or any stockholder's proxy shall, appoint one or more such inspectors of election. The number of inspectors shall be either one (1) or three (3), as determined by the presiding officer; that if such inspector(s) is or are to be appointed at the meeting on the request of one or more stockholders or proxies, the holders of a majority of the total number of shares represented at the meeting (in person or by duly executed proxy) shall determine whether one (1) or three (3) inspectors are to be appointed. If any person appointed as inspector of election fails to appear at the meeting or fails or refuses to act as inspector, the presiding officer of the meeting may, and upon the request of any stockholder or any stockholder's proxy shall, appoint a person to fill that vacancy. The inspectors of election shall:
Section 9. Inspectors of Election.
provided, however,
 
     (a) Determine the number of shares of capital stock outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity and effect of proxies;
     (b) Receive votes, ballots or consents;
     (c) Count and tabulate all votes or consents;
     (d) Determine and report to the Corporation the results of the voting; and
     (e) Do any other acts that may be proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all stockholders.
     On request of the presiding officer of the meeting or of any stockholder or any stockholder's proxy, the inspector(s) of election shall make a report in writing of any question or other matter determined by him or them and execute a certificate of any facts found by him or them.
     If there are three (3) inspectors of election, the decision, act, report or certificate of a majority shall be effective in all respects as the decision, act, report or certificate of the inspectors.
     
Section 10. Nominations and Proposals by Stockholders.
     (a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the directors or (iii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record both at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 10(a) and at the time of the annual meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10(a).
     (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 10, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for action by stockholders. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business (5:00 pm Eastern time) on the 75 day nor earlier than the close of business on the 100 day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 100 day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 75 day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of a postponement or adjournment of an annual meeting to a later date or time commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (ii) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iii) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made, (x) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (y) the number of each class of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.
th
th
th
th
     (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 10 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no
 
public announcement by the Corporation naming all the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 10(a) shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
     (b) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such special meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record both at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 10(b) and at the time of the special meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10(b). In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice containing the information required by paragraph (a) (2) of this Section 10 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of a postponement or adjournment of a special meeting to a later date or time commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
     (c) General. (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10 (or have been appointed by the directors to fill a vacancy pursuant to Article III, Section 4 of these Bylaws) shall be eligible to stand for election by the stockholders as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Section 10, to declare that such nomination or proposal shall be disregarded.
     (2) For purposes of this Section 10, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
     (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 10. Nothing in this Section 10 shall be deemed to affect any right of a stockholder to request inclusion of a proposal in, nor the right of the Corporation to omit a proposal from, the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
     . Stock of the Corporation registered in the name of a corporation, partnership, trust or other entity, if entitled to be voted, may be voted by the president or a vice president, a general partner or trustee thereof, as the case may be, or a proxy appointed by any of the foregoing individuals, unless some other person who has been appointed to vote such stock pursuant to a bylaw or a resolution of the governing body of such corporation or other entity or agreement of the partners of a partnership presents a certified copy of such bylaw, resolution or agreement, in which case such person may vote such stock. Any director or other fiduciary may vote stock registered in his or her name as such fiduciary, either in person or by proxy.
Section 11. Voting of Stock by Certain Holders
     Shares of stock of the Corporation directly or indirectly owned by it shall not be voted at any meeting and shall not be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares entitled to be voted at any given time, unless they are held by it in a fiduciary capacity, in which case they may be voted and shall be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares at any given time.
 
     Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting if there is filed with the records of stockholders meetings a unanimous written consent which sets forth the action and is signed by each stockholder entitled to vote on the matter and a written waiver of any right to dissent signed by each stockholder entitled to notice of the meeting but not entitled to vote at it.
Section 12. Informal Action by Stockholders.
     The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Directors.
Section 1. General Powers.
     The number of directors of the Corporation shall be not less than three (3) nor more than twenty (20), and, within these limits, may be fixed, increased or decreased from time to time by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, but no such action may affect the tenure of office of any director.
Section 2. Number; Tenure.
     The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen by the vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board, if present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be, ex officio, a member of all standing committees, but shall not in the capacity as Chairman of the Board be deemed an officer of the Corporation.
Section 3. Chairman of the Board.
     Except as may be provided by the Board of Directors in setting the terms of any class or series of preferred stock, any vacancy resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors shall be filled only by a majority vote of the entire Board of Directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from any other cause shall be filled only by a majority vote of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the numbers of authorized directors constituting the entire Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Section 4. Vacancies.
     Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Secretary of the Corporation. Unless otherwise specified in such written notice, a resignation shall take effect upon delivery thereof. A resignation need not be accepted in order for it to be effective.
Section 5. Resignation.
     Each meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place as is fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors (or, in the absence of such resolution, as specified in the notice of such meeting).
Section 6. Place of Meetings.
     Promptly following each annual meeting of stockholders, a meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held for the purpose of electing officers and transacting other business. Notice of such meetings need not be given.
Section 7. Annual Meeting.
     Regular meetings of the Board of Directors need not be held.
Section 8. Regular Meetings.
     Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, and the Chairman of the Board shall call a special meeting at any time upon the written request of two (2) directors. Notice of any special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be delivered personally or by telephone, electronic mail, facsimile transmission, United States mail or courier to each director at his or her business or residence address. Notice by personal delivery, telephone, electronic mail or facsimile transmission shall be given at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. Notice by United States mail shall be given at least three days prior to the meeting. Notice by courier shall be given at least two days prior to the meeting. Telephone notice shall be deemed to be given when the director or his or her agent is personally given such notice in a telephone call to which the director or his or her agent is a party. Electronic mail notice shall be deemed to be given upon transmission of the message to the electronic mail address given to the Corporation by the director.
Section 9. Special Meetings.
 
Facsimile transmission notice shall be deemed to be given upon completion of the transmission of the message to the number given to the Corporation by the director and receipt of a completed answer-back indicating receipt. Notice by United States mail shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail properly addressed, with postage thereon prepaid. Notice by courier shall be deemed to be given when deposited with or delivered to a courier properly addressed. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual, regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be stated in the notice, unless specifically required by statute or these Bylaws. Notice of a meeting may be given by the Chairman of the Board, the directors requesting the meeting or the Secretary.
     A quorum of the directors may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors to meet again at a stated day and hour. In the absence of a quorum a majority of the directors present may adjourn from time to time to meet again at a stated day and hour prior to the time fixed for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors. Notice of the time and place of an adjourned meeting need not be given to any director if the time and place is fixed at the meeting adjourned.
Section 10. Adjournments.
     Directors shall be entitled to such compensation for their services as directors as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors. No director who receives compensation as a director shall be barred from serving the Corporation in any other capacity or from receiving compensation and reimbursement of reasonable expenses for any or all such other services.
Section 11. Compensation.
     Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting and without prior notice if a consent to such action in writing or by electronic transmission is given by each director and is filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors.
Section 12. Action by Consent.
     The Board of Directors may participate in meetings by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment, whereby all directors participating in the meeting can hear each other at the same time, and participation in any such meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. A written record shall be made of all actions taken at any meeting conducted by a means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment.
Section 13. Meetings by Telephone or Similar Communications.
     (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Bylaws, in addition to any affirmative vote required either by law, the Partnership Agreement, the charter of the Corporation or these Bylaws, any Transaction involving the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or the Operating Partnership shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors ("Disinterested Members") on the Board of Directors of the Corporation who are not employees, officers, directors, Affiliates or Associates of the Interested Person who or which is a party to the Transaction.
Section 14. Transactions with Interested Persons.
     (b) As used in this Section 14:
     (i) "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.
     (ii) A Person shall "Beneficially Own" and be the "Beneficial Owner" of any Shares or Units:
     (A) which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates or Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; or
     (B) which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (I) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (II) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (but neither such Person nor any such Affiliate or Associate shall be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any Shares or Units solely by reason of a revocable proxy granted for a particular meeting of stockholders, pursuant to a public solicitation of proxies for such meeting, and with respect to which Shares or Units neither such Person not any such Affiliate or Associate is
 
otherwise deemed the Beneficial Owner); or
     (C) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, within the meaning of the Rule 13d-3 under Exchange Act, by any other Person with which such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (other than solely by reason of a revocable proxy as described in subparagraph (B) above) or disposing of any Shares or Units.
     (iii) "Interested Person" shall mean any Person who or which is the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 5% or more the outstanding Shares or the outstanding Units or who or which is an Affiliate or Associate of the Corporation or the Operating Partnership. For the purposes of determining whether a Person is an Interested Person, the number of Shares or Units deemed to be outstanding shall include Shares or Units deemed owned through application of paragraphs (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (ii) above but shall not include any other unissued Shares or Units which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
     (iv) "Operating Partnership" shall mean SLC Operating Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership.
     (v) "Partnership Agreement" shall mean the Limited Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership, as amended from time to time.
     (vi) "Person" shall mean any individual, limited partnership, general partnership, corporation, limited liability company or any other firm or entity.
     (vii) "Shares" shall mean the shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation.
     (viii) "Transaction" shall mean any contract, sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, transfer or disposition to or with, or any other transaction with, any Interested Person, including, without limitation, any election with respect to the method of payment for an exchange of Units for Shares.
     (ix) "Units" shall mean "OP Units" (including, without limitation, "Class A OP Units," "Class B OP Units" and "Ordinary OP Units") as each such term is defined in the Partnership Agreement.
     (c) A majority of the Disinterested Members shall have the power and duty to determine, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, all facts necessary to determine compliance with this Section 14, including, without limitation, (i) whether a Person is an Interested Person, (ii) the number of Shares or Units that any Person Beneficially Owns, and (iii) whether a Person is an Affiliate or Associate of another. A majority of the Disinterested Members shall have the right to demand that any Person who is reasonably believed to be an Interested Person (or who holds of record Shares or Units that any Interested Person Beneficially Owns) supply the Corporation with complete information as to (i) the record owner(s) of all Shares or Units that such Person who is reasonably believed to be an Interested Person Beneficially Owns, (ii) the number of, and class or series of, Shares or Units that such Person who is reasonably believed to be an Interested Person Beneficially Owns and the number(s) of the certificate(s), if any, evidencing such Shares or Units and (iii) any other factual matter relating to the applicability or effect of this Section 14, as may be reasonably requested of such Person, and such Person shall furnish such information within 10 days after receipt of such demand.
     (d) Nothing contained in this Section 14 shall be construed to relieve any Interested Person from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
     (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Bylaws, this Section 14 may be amended or repealed only by a majority of directors on the Board of Directors of the Corporation who are not employees, officers, Affiliates or Associates of the Corporation, the Operating Partnership or any Interested Person.
     . The transactions of any meeting of the directors, however called and noticed or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice if a
Section 15. Waiver of Notice
 
quorum is present and if either before or after the meeting each of the directors not present signs a written waiver of notice or a consent to the holding of such meeting or an approval of the minutes thereof. All such waivers, consents, or approvals shall be lodged with the Corporation records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Bylaws, not less than a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be composed of "independent" directors. A director is independent if he or she satisfies the independence standards set forth in the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and The New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
Section 16. Independent Directors
     (a) The Board of Directors may appoint two or more directors to constitute an Executive Committee. One of such directors shall be designated as Chairman of the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all of the rights, powers and authority of the Board of Directors, except as expressly limited by the Maryland General Corporation Law as amended from time to time.
Section 1. Executive Committee.
     (b) The Executive Committee shall fix its own rules of procedure and shall meet at such times and at such place or places as it may determine. The Chairman of the Executive Committee or, in the absence of a Chairman, a member of the Executive Committee chosen by a majority of the members present, shall preside at meetings of the Executive Committee, and another member thereof or such other person chosen by the Executive Committee shall act as secretary. A majority of the Executive Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the affirmative vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting shall be required for any action of the Executive Committee.
     The Board of Directors may appoint such other committees as it shall deem advisable and with such authority as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine.
Section 2. Other Committees.
     (a) The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, change the membership of, or discharge any committee.
Section 3. Other Provisions Regarding Committees.
     (b) Members of any committee shall be entitled to such compensation for their services as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors. No committee member who receives compensation as a member of any one or more committees shall be barred from serving the Corporation in any other capacity or from receiving compensation and reimbursement of reasonable expenses for any or all such other services.
     (c) Unless prohibited by law, the provisions of Section 12, 13 and 15 of Article III shall apply to all committees.
     The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors also may elect one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers and such other officers and agents at the Board from time to time deems necessary or appropriate. The Board of Directors may delegate to the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation the authority to appoint any officer or agent of the Corporation and to fill a vacancy other than the President, Secretary or Treasurer, and may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the authority to appoint any officer or agent of the Corporation having a lower rank than the officer making such appointment. The election or appointment of any officer of the Corporation in itself shall
Section 1. Positions.
 
not create contract rights for any such officer. All officers of the Corporation shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as from time to time shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person except the offices of President and Vice President, President and Secretary, or President and Assistant Secretary.
     Each officer of the Corporation shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and any officer may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, provided that any officer appointed by another officer pursuant to authority delegated to such appointing officer by the Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, at any time whenever the appointing officer in his or her absolute discretion shall consider that the best interests of the Corporation shall be served by such removal. Vacancies (however caused) in any office may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board of Directors (or by the appointing officer in the case of a vacancy occurring in an office to which the appointing officer has been delegated the authority to make appointments).
Section 2. Term of Office; Removal.
     The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, and no officer shall be prevented from receiving a salary by reason of the fact that such officer also receives from the Corporation compensation in any other capacity.
Section 3. Compensation.
     Subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer shall have general charge of the business, affairs and property of the Corporation and general supervision over its other officers and agents. In general, the Chief Executive Officer shall perform all duties incident to the office of chief executive officer of a corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power and authority to execute all written instruments, of every nature, on behalf of the Corporation. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders.
Section 4. Chief Executive Officer.
     In the absence of a Chief Executive Officer, the President shall in general supervise and control all of the business and affairs of the Corporation. The President shall have such duties and responsibilities for the supervision of the business and affairs of the Corporation as may be delegated to the President by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. He or she may execute written instruments, of every nature, except in cases where the execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or by these Bylaws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or shall be required by law to be otherwise executed; and in general shall perform all duties incident to the office of president and such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Section 5. President.
     In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice President (or in the event there is more than one, the Vice Presidents in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors or, if not ranked, the Vice-President designated by the Board of Directors), shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the President. The Vice Presidents shall have the power and authority to execute on behalf of the Corporation all written instruments of every nature. A Vice President also generally shall assist the Chief Executive Officer and the President and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Section 6. Vice Presidents.
     The Secretary shall perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation, shall have authority (as shall any Assistant Secretary) to affix the same to any instrument requiring it, and to attest the seal by his or her signature. The Board of Directors may give general authority to officers other than the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing thereof by his or her signature.
Section 7. Secretary.
     The Assistant Secretary, if any (or in the event there is more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order designated or, in the absence of any designation, the order of their election or appointment), in the absence or disability of the Secretary, shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary. An Assistant Secretary shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Section 8. Assistant Secretary.
 
     The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds, securities, other similar valuable effects, and evidences of indebtedness, shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation in such manner as may be ordered by the Board of Directors from time to time and shall render to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and the Board of Directors, at regular meetings of the Board or whenever any of them may so require, an account of all transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation.
Section 9. Treasurer.
     The Assistant Treasurer, if any (or in the event there is more than one, the Assistant Treasurers in the order designated or, in the absence of any designation, in the order of their election or appointment), in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer. An Assistant Treasurer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as form time to time may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Section 10. Assistant Treasurer.
     Except as otherwise specifically provided in these Bylaws, any notice required or permitted to be given to any director, officer, stockholder or committee member shall be given in any manner permitted by law at the address as it appears in the records of the Corporation.
     The President or any Vice President and the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall have full power and authority to attend, act and vote at any meeting of security holders of other corporations in which the Corporation may hold securities, and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and powers incident to the ownership of such securities which the Corporation possesses and has the power to exercise.
Section 1. Representation of Shares of Other Corporations.
     Subject to the Maryland General Corporation Law, dividends upon the outstanding stock of the Corporation or other distributions may be authorized by the Board of Directors at any annual, regular or special meeting and may be paid in cash, in property or in shares of the Corporation's stock. Stockholders shall have no right to any dividend or distribution unless and until authorized by the Board of Directors and declared by the Corporation.
Section 2. Dividends.
     Except as otherwise provided by law, the Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person who is registered on its books as the owner of shares of its stock to receive dividends or other distributions (to the extent otherwise distributable or distributed) and to vote (in the case of voting stock) as such owner. The Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or legal claim to or interest in such shares on the part of any other person. The Corporation (or its transfer agent) shall not be required to send notices or dividends to a name or address other than the name or address of the stockholders appearing on the stock ledger maintained by the Corporation (or by the transfer agent or registrar, if any), unless any such stockholder shall have notified the Corporation (or the transfer agent or registrar, if any), in writing, of another name or address at least ten (10) days prior to the mailing of such notice or dividend. Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to preclude the Corporation from inquiring as to the actual ownership of any shares of its stock, nor impose upon the Corporation or its transfer agent a duty, nor limit their rights to inquire into adverse claims.
Section 3. Registered Stockholders.
     The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation which is claimed to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors, in its discretion,
Section 4. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificate.
 
may require as a condition precedent to issuance that the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his or her legal representative, advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and to deliver to the Corporation a bond in such sum, or other security in such form, as the Board of Directors may direct, as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate claimed to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
     The Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may fix a sum which may be set aside or reserved over and above the paid-in capital of the Corporation as a reserve for any proper purpose, and from time to time may increase, diminish or vary such reserves.
Section 5. Reserves.
     The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 6. Fiscal Year.
     The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its incorporation and the words "Corporate Seal" and "State of Maryland."
Section 7. Seal.
     The provisions of Sections 3-701 to 3-709 of the Corporations and Associations Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland shall not apply to any shares of common stock of the Corporation now or hereafter held of record or beneficially held by any person whatsoever, it being the intent of this provision that the Corporation opt out of the aforementioned sections in their entirety and that all persons and shares of beneficial interest held by such persons be exempted from such sections to the fullest extent permitted by Maryland law.
Section 8. Exemption from Control Share Acquisition Statute.
     These Bylaws may be amended or repealed or new or additional Bylaws may be adopted only by the vote or written consent of the directors, and the stockholders shall not have any power to amend or repeal these Bylaws or to adopt new or additional Bylaws.

 
Exhibit 4.1
     (this "") is made on April 7, 2006, by and between Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., a Maryland corporation (""), and Starwood Hotels & Resorts, a Maryland real estate investment Trust ("").
THIS TERMINATION AGREEMENT
Agreement
Corporation
Trust
     , Corporation and Trust are parties to a certain Amended and Restated Intercompany Agreement, dated as of January 6, 1999 (the ""), between Corporation and Trust, pursuant to which Class B shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share, of Trust ("") and the shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of Corporation ("") were paired, such that Class B Shares are transferable only with an equal number of Corporation Shares and vice versa;
WHEREAS
Pairing Agreement
Class B Shares
Corporation Shares
     , Corporation and Trust are parties to the Master Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into as of November 14, 2005, as amended (the ""), by and among Host Marriott Corporation, Host Marriott, L.P. (""), Horizon Supernova Merger Sub, L.L.C., Horizon SLT Merger Sub, L.P., Corporation, Trust, Sheraton Holding Corporation and SLT Realty Limited Partnership, pursuant to which agreement Host OP would acquire all of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of Trust in a reverse subsidiary merger transaction and Trust would thereafter become a wholly owned subsidiary of Host OP;
WHEREAS
Master Agreement
Host OP
     , Corporation and Trust desire to terminate the Pairing Agreement as of 4:01 p.m., New York time, on the date hereof (the ""); and
WHEREAS
Effective Time
     , Class B Shares and Corporation Shares have traded, and immediately prior to the Effective Time will trade, together as a unit on the New York Stock Exchange (the "") under the symbol "HOT", Class B Shares shall be withdrawn from listing on the NYSE as of the Effective Time, Class B Shares shall be transferable separately from Corporation Shares following the Effective Time until the Closing (as such term is defined in the Master Agreement) through the American Stock Transfer & Trust Company (the transfer agent for Corporation and Trust), and Corporation Shares, separate from the Class B Shares, will begin trading again under the symbol "HOT" on the NYSE at the commencement of trading at 9:30 a.m., New York time, on April 10, 2006;
WHEREAS
NYSE
     , in consideration of the covenants and conditions set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
     1. . Corporation and Trust hereby agree that the Pairing Agreement and the terms thereof shall terminate and be of no further force and effect as of the Effective Time.
Subject Agreement Termination
     2. . The terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon Corporation and Trust and their respective successors and assigns.
Binding Nature
 
     3. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement with the intent that it become effective as of the Effective Time.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
[Pairing Agreement Termination]

 
Exhibit 4.2
 
 
          AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGREEMENT dated as of April 7, 2006 (this "Agreement"), between STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE, INC., a Maryland corporation (the "Corporation"), and AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER AND TRUST COMPANY, a New York banking corporation, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent").
          WHEREAS (i) on March 15, 1999 (the "Rights Dividend Declaration Date"), the Corporation declared a dividend distribution of one Right (as hereinafter defined) for each share of Common Stock (as hereinafter defined) of the Corporation outstanding at the Close of Business (as hereinafter defined) on April 5, 1999 (the "Record Date"), each Right initially representing the right to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation having the rights, powers and preferences set forth in the form of Articles Supplementary filed on March 15, 1999, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Original Agreement, and (ii) the Board of Directors of the Corporation has authorized the issuance of one Right (as such number may hereinafter be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 11(p)) for each share of Common Stock of the Corporation issued between the Record Date and the earlier of the Distribution Date and the Expiration Date (as such terms are hereinafter defined) or, in certain circumstances provided in Section 22, after the Distribution Date;
          WHEREAS the Corporation and the Rights Agent entered into the Rights Agreement dated as of March 15, 1999, as amended on October 2, 2003 and October 24, 2003 (as amended, the "Original Agreement") in respect of the Rights; and
          WHEREAS the Corporation wishes to amend the Original Agreement and reclassify the terms of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock as set forth in the form of Articles Supplementary attached hereto as Exhibit A to reflect that, in connection with the sale of Starwood Hotels & Resorts, a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Trust"), the Corporation and the Trust terminated the Amended and Restated Intercompany Agreement dated as of January 6, 1999, between the Corporation and the Trust on April 7, 2006, and from and after April 7, 2006, the Common Stock are generally transferable separately from the Class B Shares of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share, of the Trust.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          Section 1. . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
Certain Definitions
     (a) "Acquiring Person" shall mean any Person who or which, together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, shall be the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding, but shall not include the Corporation, any Subsidiary of the Corporation, any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or of any Subsidiary of the Corporation, or any Person organized, appointed or established by
 
the Corporation for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Person shall become an "Acquiring Person" as the result of an acquisition of shares of Common Stock by the Corporation which, by reducing the number of shares outstanding, increases the proportionate number of shares beneficially owned by such Person to 15% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding; provided, however, that if a Person shall become the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding by reason of share purchases by the Corporation and shall, after such share purchases by the Corporation, become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Common Stock, then such Person shall be deemed to be an "Acquiring Person". Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines in good faith that a Person who would otherwise be an "Acquiring Person" (as defined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (a)) has become such inadvertently, and such Person divests as promptly as practicable a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock so that such Person would no longer be an "Acquiring Person" (as defined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (a)), then such Person shall be deemed not to be an "Acquiring Person" for any purposes of this Agreement.
     (b) "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     (c) "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.
     (d) A Person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, and shall be deemed to "beneficially own," any securities:
     (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall be deemed not the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," (A) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange, (B) securities issuable upon exercise of Rights at any time prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event or (C) securities issuable upon exercise of Rights from and after the occurrence of a Triggering Event, which Rights were acquired by such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates prior to the Distribution Date or pursuant to Section 3(a) or Section 22 (the "Original Rights") or pursuant to Section 11(i) in connection with an adjustment made with respect to any Original Rights;
     (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right to vote or dispose of or has "beneficial ownership" of (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act), including pursuant to any agreement,
 
arrangement or understanding, whether or not in writing; provided, however, that a Person shall be deemed not the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," any security by reason of this subparagraph (ii) as a result of an agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security if such agreement, arrangement or understanding: (A) arises solely from a revocable proxy given in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act and (B) is not also then reportable by such Person on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report); or
     (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) with which such Person (or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing), for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except pursuant to a revocable proxy as described in the proviso to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (d)) or disposing of any voting securities of the Corporation;
, , that nothing in this paragraph (d) shall cause a Person engaged in business as an underwriter of securities to be the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," any securities acquired through such Person's participation in good faith in a firm commitment underwriting until the expiration of forty days after the date of such acquisition.
provided
however
     (e) "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the State of New York or the State of California are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
     (f) "Close of Business" on any given date shall mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on such date, provided, however, that if such date is not a Business Day it shall mean 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the next succeeding Business Day.
     (g) "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation, except that "Common Stock" when used with reference to any Person other than the Corporation shall mean the class or series of stock of such Person with the greatest voting power, or, if such Person is not a corporation, the equity securities or other equity interest issued by such Person having power to control or direct the management of such Person.
     (h) "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect on the date of this Agreement.
     (i) "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, limited liability company, corporation, partnership or other entity and shall include any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity.
 
     (j) "Preferred Stock" shall mean shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation, and, to the extent that there is not a sufficient number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock authorized to permit the full exercise of the Rights, any other series of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation designated for such purpose containing terms substantially similar to the terms of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
     (k) "Right" shall mean a right initially representing the right to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock on the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement.
     (l) "Section 11(a)(ii) Event" shall mean the event described in Section 11(a)(ii).
     (m) "Section 13 Event" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13(a).
     (n) "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" shall mean the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation having the rights, powers and preferences set forth in the form of the Articles Supplementary attached hereto as Exhibit A.
     (o) "Stock Acquisition Date" shall mean the first date of public announcement (which, for purposes of this definition, shall include, without limitation, a press release or a report filed pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) by the Corporation or an Acquiring Person substantially to the effect that an Acquiring Person has become such.
     (p) "Subsidiary" shall mean, with reference to any Person, any other Person (other than an individual) of which an amount of voting securities sufficient to elect at least a majority of the board of directors (or comparable body) of such other Person is beneficially owned by such Person, or otherwise controlled by such Person.
     (q) "Triggering Event" shall mean any Section 11(a)(ii) Event or any Section 13 Event.
          In addition, for purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings indicated in specified sections of this Agreement: (i) "Adjustment Shares" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(ii); (ii) "common stock equivalents" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii); (iii) "current market price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(d); (iv) "Current Value" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii); (v) "Distribution Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a); (vi) "equivalent preferred stock" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(b); (vii) "Exchange Ratio" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 24(a); (viii) "Expiration Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a); (ix) "Final Expiration Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a); (x) "Nasdaq" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(d)(i); (xi) "Principal Party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13(b); (xii) "Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a); (xiii) "Record Date" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereof; (xiv) "Redemption Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 23(a); (xv) "Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereof; (xvi) "Rights Certificates" shall have the
 
meaning set forth in Section 3(a); (xvii) "Rights Dividend Declaration Date" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereof; (xviii) "Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii); (xix) "Spread" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii); (xx) "Substitution Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(a)(iii); (xxi) "Summary of Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b); and (xxii) "Trading Day" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11(d)(i).
          Section 2. . The Corporation hereby appoints the Rights Agent to act as agent for the Corporation in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof, and the Rights Agent hereby accepts such appointment. The Corporation may from time to time appoint such co-Rights Agents as it may deem necessary or desirable. The Rights Agent shall have no duty to supervise, and in no event shall be liable for, the acts or omissions of any such co-Rights Agent.
Appointment of Rights Agent
          Section 3. . (a) Until the earlier of (i) the Close of Business on the tenth day after the Stock Acquisition Date (or, if the tenth day after the Stock Acquisition Date occurs before the Record Date, the Close of Business on the Record Date) or (ii) the Close of Business on the tenth Business Day (or such later date as may be determined by action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation prior to such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person) after the date that a tender or exchange offer by any Person (other than the Corporation, any Subsidiary of the Corporation, any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or of any Subsidiary of the Corporation, or any Person organized, appointed or established by the Corporation for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan) is first published or sent or given within the meaning of Rule 14d-2(a) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act (or any successor rule), if upon consummation thereof, such Person would be the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding, (the earlier of (i) and (ii) being herein referred to as the "Distribution Date"), (x) the Rights will be represented (subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 3) by the certificates for the Common Stock registered in the names of the holders of the Common Stock (which certificates for Common Stock shall be deemed also to be certificates for Rights) and not by separate certificates and (y) the Rights will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of the underlying shares of Common Stock (including a transfer to the Corporation). As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date and once the Rights Agent has been provided with all necessary information, the Rights Agent will send by first-class, insured, postage prepaid mail, to each record holder of the Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, at the address of such holder shown on the records of the Corporation, one or more Rights certificates, in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto (the "Rights Certificates"), representing one Right for each share of Common Stock so held, subject to adjustment as provided herein. In the event that an adjustment in the number of Rights per share of Common Stock has been made pursuant to Section 11(p), at the time of distribution of the Rights Certificates, the Corporation shall make the necessary and appropriate adjustments (in accordance with Section 14(a)) so that Rights Certificates representing only whole numbers of Rights are distributed and cash is paid in lieu of any fractional Rights. As of and after the Distribution Date, the Rights will be represented solely by such Rights Certificates.
Issue of Rights Certificates
          (b) As promptly as practicable following the Record Date, the Corporation will send a copy of a Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Stock, in substantially the form
 
attached hereto as Exhibit C (the "Summary of Rights"), by first-class, postage prepaid mail, to each record holder of the Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Record Date, at the address of such holder shown on the records of the Corporation. With respect to certificates for the Common Stock outstanding as of the Record Date, until the Distribution Date, the Rights will be represented by such certificates registered in the names of the holders thereof together with a copy of the Summary of Rights attached thereto. Until the earlier of the Distribution Date or the Expiration Date, the surrender for transfer of any certificate representing shares of Common Stock in respect of which Rights have been issued, with or without a copy of the Summary of Rights attached thereto, shall also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with such shares of Common Stock.
          (c) Rights shall be issued in respect of all shares of Common Stock which are issued (whether originally issued or from the Company's treasury) after the Record Date but prior to the earlier of the Distribution Date or the Expiration Date or, in certain circumstances provided in Section 22, after the Distribution Date. Certificates representing such shares of Common Stock shall also be deemed to be certificates for Rights, and shall bear a legend substantially in the following form:
This certificate also represents and entitles the holder hereof to certain rights as set forth in the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of April 7, 2006 (the "Rights Agreement") between Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Corporation") and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file at the principal offices of the Corporation. Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will be represented by separate certificates and will no longer be represented by this certificate. The Corporation will mail to the holder of this certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement, as in effect on the date of mailing, without charge promptly after receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement, Rights issued to, or held by, any Person who is, was or becomes an Acquiring Person or any Affiliate or Associate thereof (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), whether currently held by or on behalf of such Person or by any subsequent holder, may become null and void and will no longer be transferable.
          With respect to such certificates containing the foregoing legend, until the earlier of (i) the Distribution Date or (ii) the Expiration Date, the Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificates shall be represented by such certificates alone and registered holders of Common Stock shall also be the registered holders of the associated Rights, and the surrender for transfer of any of such certificates shall also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificates. In the event the Corporation purchases or acquires any shares of its Common Stock after the Record Date but prior to the Distribution Date, any Rights associated with such shares shall be deemed cancelled
 
and retired so that the Corporation shall not be entitled to exercise any Rights associated with shares of Common Stock that are not outstanding. Notwithstanding this Section 3(c), the omission of a legend shall not affect the enforceability of any part of this Agreement or the rights of any holder of the Rights.
          Section 4. . (a) The Rights Certificates (and the forms of election to purchase and of assignment to be printed on the reverse thereof) shall each be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto and may have such marks of identification or designation and such legends, summaries or endorsements printed thereon as the Corporation may deem appropriate (but which do not affect the duties or responsibilities of the Rights Agent hereunder) and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or as may be required to comply with any applicable law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which the Rights may from time to time be listed, or to conform to usage. Subject to the provisions of Section 11 and Section 22, the Rights Certificates, whenever distributed, shall be dated as of the Record Date or, in the case of Rights with respect to shares of Common Stock issued or becoming outstanding after the Record Date, the same date as the stock certificate representing such shares, and on their face shall entitle the holders thereof to purchase such number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock as shall be set forth therein at the price set forth therein (such exercise price per one one-thousandth of a share, the "Purchase Price"), but the amount and type of securities purchasable upon the exercise of each Right and the Purchase Price thereof shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Sections 11 and 13(a).
Form of Rights Certificates
          (b) Any Rights Certificate issued pursuant to Section 3(a) or Section 22 that represents Rights beneficially owned by any Person known to be: (i) an Acquiring Person or any Associate or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring Person becomes such or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee prior to or concurrently with the Acquiring Person becoming such and receives such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer (whether or not for consideration) from the Acquiring Person (or any Associate or Affiliate thereof) to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person (or any Associate or Affiliate thereof) or to any Person with whom such Acquiring Person (or any Associate or Affiliate thereof) has any continuing agreement, arrangement or understanding regarding the transferred Rights or (B) a transfer which the Board of Directors of the Corporation has determined is part of a plan, arrangement or understanding which has as a primary purpose or effect the avoidance of Section 7(e), and any Rights Certificate issued pursuant to Section 6 or Section 11 upon transfer, exchange, replacement or adjustment of any other Rights Certificate referred to in this sentence, shall contain (to the extent feasible) the following legend:
The Rights represented by this Rights Certificate are or were beneficially owned by a Person who was or became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement). Accordingly, this Rights Certificate and the Rights represented hereby may become null and void in the circumstances specified in Section 7(e) of such Agreement.
 
          Section 5. . (a) The Rights Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the Corporation by its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President or any Vice President, either manually or by facsimile signature, and shall have affixed thereto the Company's seal or a facsimile thereof which shall be attested by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, either manually or by facsimile signature. The Rights Certificates shall be countersigned manually or by facsimile signature by the Rights Agent and shall not be valid for any purpose unless so countersigned. In case any officer of the Corporation who shall have signed any of the Rights Certificates shall cease to be such officer of the Corporation before countersignature by the Rights Agent and issuance and delivery by the Corporation, such Rights Certificates, nevertheless, may be countersigned by the Rights Agent and issued and delivered by the Corporation with the same force and effect as though the person who signed such Rights Certificates had not ceased to be such officer of the Corporation; and any Rights Certificates may be signed on behalf of the Corporation by any person who, at the actual date of the execution of such Rights Certificate, shall be a proper officer of the Corporation to sign such Rights Certificate, although at the date of the execution of this Rights Agreement any such person was not such an officer.
Countersignature and Registration
          (b) Following the Distribution Date, the Rights Agent will keep or cause to be kept (to the extent all necessary information has been received by the Rights Agent), at its principal office or offices designated as the appropriate place for surrender of Rights Certificates upon exercise or transfer, books for registration and transfer of the Rights Certificates issued hereunder. Such books shall show the names and addresses of the respective holders of the Rights Certificates, the number of Rights represented on its face by each of the Rights Certificates and the certificate number and the date of each of the Rights Certificates.
          Section 6. . (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 4(b), Section 7(e) and Section 14, at any time after the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, and at or prior to the Close of Business on the Expiration Date, any Rights Certificate or Certificates (other than Rights Certificates representing Rights that have become null and void pursuant to Section 7(e) or that have been exchanged pursuant to Section 24) may be transferred, split up, combined or exchanged for another Rights Certificate or Certificates, entitling the registered holder to purchase a like number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or, following a Triggering Event, shares of Common Stock, other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as the Rights Certificate or Certificates surrendered then entitled such holder (or former holder in the case of a transfer) to purchase. Any registered holder desiring to transfer, split up, combine or exchange any Rights Certificate or Certificates shall make such request in writing delivered to the Rights Agent, and shall surrender the Rights Certificate or Certificates to be transferred, split up, combined or exchanged at the principal office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose. Neither the Rights Agent nor the Corporation shall be obligated to take any action whatsoever with respect to the transfer of any such surrendered Rights Certificate until the registered holder shall have completed and signed the certificate contained in the form of assignment on the reverse side of such Rights Certificate and shall have provided such additional evidence of the identity of the Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) or Affiliates or Associates thereof as the Corporation or the Rights Agent shall reasonably request. Thereupon the Rights Agent shall, subject to Section 4(b), Section 7(e), Section 14 and Section 24, countersign and deliver to the Person entitled thereto a Rights
Transfer, Split Up, Combination and Exchange of Rights Certificates; Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Rights Certificates
 
Certificate or Rights Certificates, as the case may be, as so requested. The Corporation may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer, split up, combination or exchange of Rights Certificates. Neither the Rights Agent nor the Corporation shall have any duty or obligation under this Section 6 unless and until they are satisfied that all such taxes and/or changes have been paid.
          (b) Upon receipt by the Corporation and the Rights Agent of evidence reasonably satisfactory to them of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of a Rights Certificate, and, in case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity or security satisfactory to them, and reimbursement to the Corporation and the Rights Agent of all reasonable expenses incidental thereto, and upon surrender to the Rights Agent and cancellation of the Rights Certificates if mutilated, the Corporation will execute and deliver a new Rights Certificate of like tenor to the Rights Agent for countersignature and delivery to the registered owner in lieu of the Rights Certificate so lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated.
          Section 7. . (a) Subject to Section 7(e), the registered holder of any Rights Certificate may exercise the Rights represented thereby (except as otherwise provided herein including, without limitation, the restrictions on exercisability set forth in Section 9(c), Section 11(a)(iii) and Section 23) in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Rights Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the aggregate Purchase Price with respect to the total number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as to which such surrendered Rights are then exercisable, at or prior to the earliest of (i) the Close of Business on April 5, 2009 (the "Final Expiration Date"), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 or (iii) the time at which such Rights are exchanged pursuant to Section 24 (the earliest of (i), (ii) and (iii) being herein referred to as the "Expiration Date").
Exercise of Rights; Purchase Price; Expiration Date of Rights
          (b) The Purchase Price for each one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock pursuant to the exercise of a Right shall initially be $125, and shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Sections 11 and 13(a) and shall be payable in accordance with paragraph (c) below.
          (c) Upon receipt of a Rights Certificate representing exercisable Rights, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate on the reverse side thereof duly executed, accompanied by payment, with respect to each Right so exercised, of the Purchase Price per one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock (or other shares, securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) to be purchased as set forth below and an amount equal to any applicable tax or charge required to be paid by the holder of the Rights Certificate in accordance with Section 9(e), the Rights Agent shall, subject to Section 20(k), thereupon promptly (i) (A) requisition from any transfer agent of the shares of Preferred Stock (or make available, if the Rights Agent is the transfer agent for such shares) certificates for the total number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock to be purchased and the Corporation hereby irrevocably authorizes its transfer agent to comply with all such requests or (B) if the Corporation shall have elected to deposit the total number of shares of Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of the Rights
 
hereunder with a depositary agent, requisition from the depositary agent depositary receipts representing such number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock as are to be purchased (in which case certificates for the shares of Preferred Stock represented by such receipts shall be deposited by the transfer agent with the depositary agent) and the Corporation will direct the depositary agent to comply with such request, (ii) requisition from the Corporation the amount of cash, if any, to be paid in lieu of fractional shares in accordance with Section 14, (iii) after receipt of such certificates or depositary receipts, cause the same to be delivered to or upon the order of the registered holder of such Rights Certificate, registered in such name or names as may be designated by such holder and (iv) after receipt thereof, deliver such cash, if any, to or upon the order of the registered holder of such Rights Certificate. The payment of the Purchase Price (as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii)) shall be made in cash or by certified bank check or bank draft payable to the order of the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation is obligated to issue other securities of the Corporation, pay cash and/or distribute other property pursuant to Section 11(a), the Corporation will make all arrangements necessary so that such other securities, cash and/or other property are available for distribution by the Rights Agent, if and when necessary to comply with the terms of this Agreement. The Corporation reserves the right to require prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event that, upon any exercise of Rights, a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole shares of Preferred Stock would be issued.
          (d) In case the registered holder of any Rights Certificate shall exercise less than all the Rights represented thereby, a new Rights Certificate representing Rights equivalent to the Rights remaining unexercised shall be issued by the Rights Agent and delivered to, or upon the order of, the registered holder of such Rights Certificate, registered in such name or names as may be designated by such holder, subject to the provisions of Section 14.
          (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, from and after the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, any Rights beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring Person or an Associate or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring Person becomes such or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee prior to or concurrently with the Acquiring Person becoming such and receives such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer (whether or not for consideration) from the Acquiring Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) or to any Person with whom the Acquiring Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) has any continuing agreement, arrangement or understanding regarding the transferred Rights or (B) a transfer which the Board of Directors of the Corporation has determined is part of a plan, arrangement or understanding which has as a primary purpose or effect the avoidance of this Section 7(e), shall become null and void without any further action and no holder of such Rights shall have any rights whatsoever with respect to such Rights, whether under any provision of this Agreement or otherwise. The Corporation shall use all reasonable efforts to ensure that the provisions of this Section 7(e) and Section 4(b) are complied with, but neither the Corporation nor the Rights Agent shall have any liability to any holder of Rights Certificates or other Person as a result of the Company's failure to make any determinations with respect to an Acquiring Person or any of its Affiliates, Associates or transferees hereunder.
 
          (f) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, neither the Rights Agent nor the Corporation shall be obligated to undertake any action with respect to a registered holder upon the occurrence of any purported exercise as set forth in this Section 7 unless such registered holder shall have (i) properly completed and signed the certificate contained in the form of election to purchase set forth on the reverse side of the Rights Certificate surrendered for such exercise and (ii) provided such additional evidence of the identity of the Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) or Affiliates or Associates thereof as the Corporation or the Rights Agent shall reasonably request.
          Section 8. . All Rights Certificates surrendered for the purpose of exercise, transfer, split up, combination or exchange shall, if surrendered to the Corporation or any of its agents, be delivered to the Rights Agent for cancellation or in cancelled form, or, if surrendered to the Rights Agent, shall be cancelled by it, and no Rights Certificates shall be issued in lieu thereof, except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Corporation shall deliver to the Rights Agent for cancellation and retirement, and the Rights Agent shall so cancel and retire, any other Rights Certificates purchased or acquired by the Corporation otherwise than upon the exercise thereof. The Rights Agent shall deliver all cancelled Rights Certificates to the Corporation, or shall, at the written request of the Corporation, destroy such cancelled Rights Certificates, and in such case shall deliver a certificate of destruction thereof to the Corporation.
Cancellation and Destruction of Rights Certificates
          Section 9. . (a) The Corporation covenants and agrees that it will cause to be reserved and kept available out of its authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, out of its authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock and/or other securities), the number of shares of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Common Stock and/or other securities) that, as provided in this Agreement, including Section 11(a)(iii), will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of all outstanding Rights in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Reservation and Availability of Stock
          (b) So long as the shares of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, shares of Common Stock and/or other securities) issuable and deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights may be listed on any national securities exchange or The Nasdaq National Market (or any successor), the Corporation shall use its best efforts to cause, from and after such time as the Rights become exercisable, all shares reserved for such issuance to be listed on such exchange or The Nasdaq National Market (or any successor), upon official notice of issuance upon such exercise.
          (c) The Corporation shall use its best efforts to (i) file, as soon as practicable following the earliest date after the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event on which the consideration to be delivered by the Corporation upon exercise of the Rights has been determined in accordance with Section 11(a)(iii), a registration statement under the Act with respect to the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights on an appropriate form, (ii) cause such registration statement to become effective as soon as practicable after such filing and (iii) cause such registration statement to remain effective (with a prospectus at all times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the earlier of (A) the date as of which the Rights are no longer exercisable for such securities and (B) the date of the expiration of the Rights. The Corporation
 
will also take such action as may be appropriate under, or to ensure compliance with, the securities or "Blue Sky" laws of the various states in connection with the exercisability of the Rights. The Corporation may temporarily suspend, for a period of time not to exceed 90 days after the date set forth in clause (i) of the first sentence of this Section 9(c), the exercisability of the Rights in order to prepare and file such registration statement and permit it to become effective. Upon any such suspension, the Corporation shall issue a public announcement stating that the exercisability of the Rights has been temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at such time as the suspension is no longer in effect (with prompt notice of any such announcements to the Rights Agent). In addition, if following the Distribution Date the Corporation shall determine that a registration statement is required in connection with the exercise of the Rights, and a Section 11(a)(ii) Event has not occurred, the Corporation may temporarily suspend the exercisability of Rights until such time as the applicable registration statement has been declared effective. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Rights shall not be exercisable in any jurisdiction if the requisite qualification or exemption in such jurisdiction shall not have been obtained, the exercise thereof shall not be permitted under applicable law or an applicable registration statement shall not have been declared effective, unless in any such case the Corporation makes a public announcement to the contrary.
          (d) The Corporation covenants and agrees that it will take all such actions as may be necessary to ensure that all one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, shares of Common Stock and/or other securities) delivered upon exercise of Rights shall, at the time of delivery of the certificates for such shares (subject to payment of the Purchase Price), be duly and validly authorized and issued and fully paid and nonassessable.
          (e) The Corporation further covenants and agrees that it will pay, when due and payable, any and all taxes and charges that may be payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of the Rights Certificates and of any certificates for a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or shares of Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) upon the exercise of Rights. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any tax or charge that may be payable in respect of any transfer or delivery of Rights Certificates to a Person other than, or the issuance or delivery of a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or shares of Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) in respect of a name other than that of, the registered holder of the Rights Certificates representing Rights surrendered for exercise or to issue or deliver any certificates for a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or shares of Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) in a name other than that of the registered holder upon the exercise of any Rights until such tax or charge shall have been paid (any such tax or charge being payable by the holder of such Rights Certificate at the time of surrender) or until it has been established to the Company's satisfaction that no such tax or charge is due.
          Section 10. . Each Person in whose name any certificate for a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or shares of Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) is issued upon the exercise of Rights shall for all purposes be deemed to have become the holder of record of such fractional shares of Preferred Stock (or shares of Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be)
Preferred Stock Record Date
 
represented thereby on, and such certificate shall be dated, the date upon which the Rights Certificate representing such Rights was duly surrendered and payment of the Purchase Price (and all applicable taxes or charges) was made; provided, however, that if the date of such surrender and payment is a date upon which the Preferred Stock (or shares of Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) transfer books of the Corporation (or other Person, as the case may be) are closed, such Person shall be deemed to have become the record holder of such shares (fractional or otherwise) on, and such certificate shall be dated, the next succeeding Business Day on which the Preferred Stock (or shares of Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) transfer books of the Corporation (or other Person, as the case may be) are open. Prior to the exercise of the Rights represented thereby, the holder of a Rights Certificate shall not be entitled to any rights of a stockholder of the Corporation with respect to shares or other securities for which the Rights shall be exercisable, including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends or other distributions or to exercise any preemptive rights, and shall not be entitled to receive any notice of any proceedings of the Corporation, except as provided herein.
          Section 11. . The Purchase Price, the number and kind of shares covered by each Right and the number of Rights outstanding are subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 11.
Adjustment of Purchase Price, Number and Kind of Shares or Number of Rights
     (a)(i) In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the date of this Agreement (A) declare and pay a dividend on the Preferred Stock payable in shares of Preferred Stock, (B) subdivide the outstanding Preferred Stock, (C) combine the outstanding Preferred Stock into a smaller number of shares or (D) issue any shares of its stock in a reclassification of the Preferred Stock (including any such reclassification in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Corporation is the continuing or surviving Corporation), except as otherwise provided in this Section 11(a) and Section 7(e), the Purchase Price in effect at the time of the record date for such dividend or of the effective date of such subdivision, combination or reclassification, and the number and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or other stock, as the case may be, issuable on such date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the holder of any Right exercised after such time shall be entitled to receive, upon payment of the Purchase Price then in effect, the aggregate number and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or other stock, as the case may be, which, if such Right had been exercised immediately prior to such date and at a time when the Preferred Stock transfer books of the Corporation were open, such holder would have owned upon such exercise and been entitled to receive by virtue of such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification. If an event occurs that would require an adjustment under both this Section 11(a)(i) and Section 11(a)(ii), the adjustment provided for in this Section 11(a)(i) shall be in addition to, and shall be made prior to, any adjustment required pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii).
     (ii) Subject to Section 24, in the event any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, then each holder of a Right (except as provided below and in Section 7(e)) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise thereof at a
 
price equal to the then current Purchase Price in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, in lieu of a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall equal the result obtained by (x) multiplying the then current Purchase Price by the then number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event and (y) dividing that product (which, following such first occurrence shall thereafter be referred to as the "Purchase Price" for each Right and for all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise contemplated by Section 13(a)) by 50% of the current market price (determined pursuant to Section 11(d)) per share of Common Stock on the date of such first occurrence (such number of shares of Common Stock, the "Adjustment Shares").
     (iii) In the event that the number of shares of Common Stock that are authorized by the Company's charter, but not outstanding or reserved for issuance for purposes other than upon exercise of the Rights, is not sufficient to permit the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance with the foregoing subparagraph (ii) of this Section 11(a), the Corporation shall: (A) determine the value of the Adjustment Shares issuable upon the exercise of a Right (the "Current Value") and (B) with respect to each Right, make adequate provision to substitute for the Adjustment Shares, upon payment of the applicable Purchase Price, (1) cash, (2) a reduction in the Purchase Price, (3) shares of Common Stock or other equity securities of the Corporation (including, without limitation, shares of preferred stock, such as the Preferred Stock, which the Board of Directors of the Corporation has deemed to have substantially the same value or economic rights as such shares of Common Stock (such shares of preferred stock, "common stock equivalents")), (4) debt securities of the Corporation, (5) other assets, or (6) any combination of the foregoing, having an aggregate value equal to the Current Value (less the amount of any reduction in the Purchase Price), where such aggregate value has been determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation based upon the advice of a nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that if the Corporation shall not have made adequate provision to deliver value pursuant to clause (B) above within 30 days following the later of (x) the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event and (y) the date on which the Company's right of redemption pursuant to Section 23(a) expires (the later of (x) and (y) being referred to herein as the "Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date"), then the Corporation shall be obligated to deliver, upon the surrender for exercise of a Right and without requiring payment of the Purchase Price, shares of Common Stock (to the extent available) and then, if necessary, cash, which shares of Common Stock and/or cash have an aggregate value equal to the Spread. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term "Spread" shall mean the excess of (i) the Current Value over (ii) the Purchase Price. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall determine in good faith that it is likely that sufficient additional shares of Common Stock could be authorized for issuance upon exercise in full of the Rights, the 30-day period set forth above may be extended to the extent necessary, but not more than 90 days after the Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date, in order that
 
the Corporation may seek stockholder (and shareholder, as the case may be) approval for the authorization of such additional shares of Common Stock (such 30-day period, as it may be extended, the "Substitution Period"). To the extent that action is to be taken pursuant to the first and/or third sentences of this Section 11(a)(iii), the Corporation (x) shall provide, subject to Section 7(e), that such action shall apply uniformly to all outstanding Rights and (y) may suspend the exercisability of the Rights until the expiration of the Substitution Period in order to seek such stockholder approval for such authorization of additional shares of Common Stock and/or to decide the appropriate form of distribution to be made pursuant to such first sentence and to determine the value thereof. In the event of any such suspension, the Corporation shall issue a public announcement stating that the exercisability of the Rights has been temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at such time as the suspension is no longer in effect (with prompt notice of any such announcements to the Rights Agent). For purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii), the value of each Adjustment Share shall be the current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)) per share of Common Stock on the Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date and the value of any "common stock equivalent" shall be deemed to equal the current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)) per share of Common Stock on such date.
          (b) In case the Corporation shall fix a record date for the issuance of rights (other than the Rights), options or warrants to all holders of Preferred Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase (for a period expiring within 45 calendar days after such record date) Preferred Stock (or shares having the same rights, privileges and preferences as the shares of Preferred Stock ("equivalent preferred stock")) or securities convertible into Preferred Stock or equivalent preferred stock at a price per share of Preferred Stock or per share of equivalent preferred stock (or having a conversion price per share, if a security convertible into Preferred Stock or equivalent preferred stock) less than the current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)) per share of Preferred Stock on such record date, the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding on such record date, plus the number of shares of Preferred Stock which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock and/or equivalent preferred stock so to be offered (and/or the aggregate initial conversion price of the convertible securities so to be offered) would purchase at such current market price, and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding on such record date, plus the number of additional shares of Preferred Stock and/or equivalent preferred stock to be offered for subscription or purchase (or into which the convertible securities so to be offered are initially convertible). In case such subscription price may be paid by delivery of consideration part or all of which may be in a form other than cash, the value of such consideration shall be as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be binding on the Rights Agent and the holders of the Rights. Shares of Preferred Stock owned by or held for the account of the Corporation shall not be deemed outstanding for the purpose of any such computation. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, and in the event that such rights, options or warrants are not so issued, the Purchase Price
 
shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed.
          (c) In case the Corporation shall fix a record date for a distribution to all holders of Preferred Stock (including any such distribution made in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Corporation is the continuing Corporation) of evidences of indebtedness, cash (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend out of the earnings or retained earnings of the Corporation), assets (other than a dividend payable in Preferred Stock, but including any dividend payable in stock other than Preferred Stock) or subscription rights or warrants (excluding those referred to in Section 11(b)), the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)) per share of Preferred Stock on such record date, less the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be binding on the Rights Agent and the holders of the Rights) of the portion of the cash, assets or evidences of indebtedness so to be distributed or of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to a share of Preferred Stock and the denominator of which shall be such current market price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)) per share of Preferred Stock. Such adjustments shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, and in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price that would have been in effect if such record date had not been fixed.
     (d) (i) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, other than computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii), the "current market price" per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the daily closing prices per share of Common Stock, respectively, for the 30 consecutive Trading Days (as such term is hereinafter defined) immediately prior to but not including such date, and for purposes of computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii), the "current market price" per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the daily closing prices per share of Common Stock, respectively, for the ten consecutive Trading Days immediately following but not including such date; provided, however, that in the event that the current market price per share of Common Stock is determined during a period following the announcement by the Corporation or other issuer of such Common Stock of (A) in the case of the shares of Common Stock, a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of such Common Stock (other than the Rights) or in the case of the Common Stock of any other issuer, a dividend or distribution on such Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of such Common Stock, or (B) in the case of the shares of Common Stock, any subdivision, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or in the case of the Common Stock of any other issuer, any subdivision, combination or reclassification of such Common Stock, and the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution, or the record date for such subdivision, combination or reclassification shall not have occurred prior to the commencement of the requisite 30 Trading Day or ten Trading Day period, as set forth above, then, and in each such case, the "current market price" shall be properly adjusted to take into account any trading during the period prior to such ex-dividend date
 
or record date. The closing price for each day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the shares of Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to trading or, if the shares of Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System ("Nasdaq") or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the shares of Common Stock are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Common Stock selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. If on any such date no market maker is making a market in the Common Stock, the fair value of such shares on such date as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be used. The term "Trading Day" shall mean a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to trading is open for the transaction of business or, if the shares of Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, a Business Day. If the shares of Common Stock are not publicly held or not so listed or traded, "current market price" per share of Common Stock shall mean the fair value per share of Common Stock, respectively, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for all purposes.
     (ii) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the "current market price" per share of Preferred Stock shall be determined in the same manner as set forth above for the shares of Common Stock in clause (i) of this Section 11(d) (other than the last sentence thereof). If the current market price per share of Preferred Stock cannot be determined in the manner provided above, or if the Preferred Stock is not publicly held or listed or traded in a manner described in clause (i) of this Section 11(d), the "current market price" per share of Preferred Stock shall be conclusively deemed to be an amount equal to 1000 (as such number may be appropriately adjusted for such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to shares of Common Stock occurring after the date of this Agreement) multiplied by the current market price per share of Common Stock. If neither the Common Stock nor the Preferred Stock are publicly held or so listed or traded, "current market price" per share of the Preferred Stock shall mean the fair value per share as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be binding on the Rights Agent and the holders of the Rights. For all purposes of this Agreement, the "current market price" of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock shall be equal to the "current market price" of one share of Preferred Stock divided by 1000.
 
          (e) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no adjustment in the Purchase Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent (1%) in the Purchase Price; provided, however, that any adjustments which by reason of this Section 11(e) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under this Section 11 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one ten-thousandth of a share of Common Stock or one one-millionth of a share of Preferred Stock, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the provisos to the first sentence of this Section 11(e), any adjustment required by this Section 11 shall be made no later than the earlier of (i) three years from the date of the transaction that mandates such adjustment and (ii) the Expiration Date.
          (f) If as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) or Section 13(a), the holder of any Right thereafter exercised shall become entitled to receive any shares of stock other than Preferred Stock, thereafter the number of such other shares so receivable upon exercise of any Right and the Purchase Price thereof shall be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to the Preferred Stock contained in Sections 11(a), (b), (c), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m), and the provisions of Sections 7, 9, 10, 13 and 14 with respect to the Preferred Stock shall apply on like terms to any such other shares.
          (g) All Rights originally issued by the Corporation subsequent to any adjustment made to the Purchase Price hereunder shall evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock purchasable from time to time hereunder upon exercise of the Rights, all subject to further adjustment as provided herein.
          (h) Unless the Corporation shall have exercised its election as provided in Section 11(i), upon each adjustment of the Purchase Price as a result of the calculations made in Sections 11(b) and (c), each Right outstanding immediately prior to the making of such adjustment shall thereafter evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, that number of one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (calculated to the nearest one-millionth) obtained by (i) multiplying (x) the number of one one-thousandths of a share covered by a Right immediately prior to this adjustment by (y) the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such adjustment of the Purchase Price and (ii) dividing the product so obtained by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after such adjustment of the Purchase Price.
          (i) The Corporation may elect on or after the date of any adjustment of the Purchase Price to adjust the number of Rights, in lieu of any adjustment in the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock purchasable upon the exercise of a Right. Each of the Rights outstanding after the adjustment in the number of Rights shall be exercisable for the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to such adjustment. Each Right held of record prior to such adjustment of the number of Rights shall become that number of Rights (calculated to the nearest one-ten-thousandth) obtained by dividing the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to adjustment of the Purchase Price by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after adjustment of the Purchase Price. The Corporation shall make a public announcement of its election to adjust the number of Rights, indicating the record date for the adjustment, and, if known at the time, the amount of the
 
adjustment to be made (with prompt notice thereof to the Rights Agent). This record date may be the date on which the Purchase Price is adjusted or any day thereafter, but, if the Rights Certificates have been issued, shall be at least ten days later than the date of the public announcement. If Rights Certificates have been issued, upon each adjustment of the number of Rights pursuant to this Section 11(i), the Corporation shall, as promptly as practicable, cause to be distributed to holders of record of Rights Certificates on such record date Rights Certificates representing, subject to Section 14, the additional Rights to which such holders shall be entitled as a result of such adjustment, or, at the option of the Corporation, shall cause to be distributed to such holders of record in substitution and replacement for the Rights Certificates held by such holders prior to the date of adjustment, and upon surrender thereof, if required by the Corporation, new Rights Certificates representing all the Rights to which such holders shall be entitled after such adjustment. Rights Certificates so to be distributed shall be issued, executed and countersigned in the manner provided for herein (and may bear, at the option of the Corporation, the adjusted Purchase Price) and shall be registered in the names of the holders of record of Rights Certificates on the record date specified in the public announcement.
          (j) Irrespective of any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price or the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Rights, the Rights Certificates theretofore and thereafter issued may continue to express the Purchase Price per one one-thousandth of a share and the number of one one-thousandths of a share that were expressed in the initial Rights Certificates issued hereunder.
          (k) Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment reducing the Purchase Price below the then stated value, if any, of the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of the Rights, the Corporation shall take any corporate action that may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Corporation may validly and legally issue fully paid and nonassessable shares of Preferred Stock at such adjusted Purchase Price.
          (l) In any case in which this Section 11 shall require that an adjustment in the Purchase Price be made effective as of a record date for a specified event, the Corporation may elect to defer adjustment (and shall provide the Rights Agent prompt notice of such election) until the occurrence of such event the issuance to the holder of any Right exercised after such record date the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock and other stock or securities, if any, issuable upon such exercise over and above the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock and other stock or securities, if any, issuable upon such exercise on the basis of the Purchase Price in effect prior to such adjustment; provided, however, that the Corporation shall deliver to such holder a due bill or other appropriate instrument representing such holder's right to receive such additional shares (fractional or otherwise) or securities upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.
          (m) Anything in this Section 11 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Corporation shall be entitled to make such reductions in the Purchase Price, in addition to those adjustments expressly required by this Section 11, as and to the extent that the Board of Directors of the Corporation, in its good faith judgment, shall determine to be advisable in order that any (i) consolidation or subdivision of the Preferred Stock, (ii) issuance wholly for cash of any shares of Preferred Stock at less than the current market price, (iii) issuance wholly for cash
 
of shares of Preferred Stock or securities that by their terms are convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Preferred Stock, (iv) stock dividends or (v) issuance of rights, options or warrants referred to in this Section 11 hereafter made by the Corporation to holders of its Preferred Stock, shall not be taxable to such stockholders.
          (n) The Corporation covenants and agrees that it shall not, at any time after the Distribution Date, (i) consolidate with any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Corporation in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o)), (ii) merge with or into any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Corporation in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o)) or (iii) sell or transfer (or permit any Subsidiary to sell or transfer), in one transaction, or a series of related transactions, assets or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person or Persons (other than the Corporation and/or any of its Subsidiaries in one or more transactions each of which complies with Section 11(o)), if (x) at the time of or immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer there are any rights, warrants or other instruments or securities outstanding or agreements in effect that would substantially diminish or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights or (y) prior to, simultaneously with or immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer, the stockholders of the Person that constitutes, or would constitute, the "Principal Party" for purposes of Section 13(a) shall have received a distribution of Rights previously owned by such Person or any of its Affiliates or Associates.
          (o) The Corporation covenants and agrees that, after the Distribution Date, it will not, except as permitted by Section 23 or Section 27, take (or permit any Subsidiary to take) any action if at the time such action is taken it is reasonably foreseeable that such action would diminish substantially or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights.
          (p) In the event that the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Dividend Declaration Date and prior to the Distribution Date (i) declare and pay a dividend on the outstanding shares of Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, the number of Rights associated with each share of Common Stock then outstanding, or issued or delivered thereafter but prior to the Distribution Date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the number of Rights thereafter associated with each share of Common Stock following any such event shall equal the result obtained by multiplying the number of Rights associated with each share of Common Stock immediately prior to such event by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the occurrence of the event and the denominator of which shall be the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately following the occurrence of such event.
          Section 12. . Whenever an adjustment is made as provided in Section 11 or Section 13, the Corporation shall (a) promptly prepare a certificate setting forth such adjustment and a brief statement of the facts and computations accounting for such adjustment, (b) promptly file with the Rights Agent, and with each transfer agent for the Preferred Stock and the Common Stock, a copy of such certificate and (c) mail a brief summary thereof to each holder of a Rights Certificate (or, if prior
Certificate of Adjusted Purchase Price or Number of Shares
 
to the Distribution Date, to each holder of a certificate representing shares of Common Stock) in accordance with Section 26. The Rights Agent shall be fully protected in relying on any such certificate and on any adjustment therein contained and shall have no duty with respect to and shall not be deemed to have knowledge of such adjustment unless and until it shall have received such certificate.
          Section 13. . (a) In the event that, following the Stock Acquisition Date, directly or indirectly, (x) the Corporation shall consolidate with, or merge with and into, any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Corporation in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o)), and the Corporation shall not be the continuing or surviving Corporation of such consolidation or merger, (y) any Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Corporation in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o)) shall consolidate with, or merge with or into, the Corporation, and the Corporation shall be the continuing or surviving Corporation of such consolidation or merger and, in connection with such consolidation or merger, all or part of the outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for stock or other securities of any other Person or cash or any other property, or (z) the Corporation shall sell or otherwise transfer (or one or more of its Subsidiaries shall sell or otherwise transfer), in one transaction or a series of related transactions, assets or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any Person or Persons (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation in one or more transactions each of which complies with Section 11(o)) (any event described in clauses (x), (y) or (z) of this Section 13(a) following the Stock Acquisition Date, a "Section 13 Event"), then, and in each such case, proper provision shall be made so that: (i) each holder of a Right, except as provided in Section 7(e), shall thereafter have the right to receive upon the exercise thereof at the then current Purchase Price in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, in lieu of a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock, such number of validly authorized and issued, fully paid, nonassessable and freely tradeable shares of Common Stock of the Principal Party (as such term is hereinafter defined), not subject to any liens, encumbrances, rights of first refusal or other adverse claims, as shall be equal to the result obtained by (l) multiplying the then current Purchase Price by the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock for which a Right is exercisable immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event (or, if a Section 11(a)(ii) Event has occurred prior to the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event, multiplying the number of such one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event by the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such first occurrence), and dividing that product (which, following the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event, shall be referred to as the "Purchase Price" for each Right and for all purposes of this Agreement) by (2) 50% of the current market price (determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i)) per share of the Common Stock of such Principal Party on the date of consummation of such Section 13 Event; (ii) such Principal Party shall thereafter be liable for, and shall assume, by virtue of such Section 13 Event, all the obligations and duties of the Corporation pursuant to this Agreement; (iii) the term "Corporation" shall thereafter be deemed to refer to such Principal Party, it being specifically intended that the provisions of Section 11 shall apply only to such Principal Party following the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event; (iv) such Principal Party shall take such steps (including, but not limited to, the authorization and reservation of a sufficient number of shares of its Common Stock) in connection with the consummation of any such transaction as may be necessary to assure that the
Consolidation, Merger or Sale or Transfer of Assets or Earning Power
 
provisions hereof shall thereafter be applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to its shares of Common Stock thereafter deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights; and (v) the provisions of Section 11(a)(ii) shall be of no effect following the first occurrence of any Section 13 Event.
          (b) "Principal Party" shall mean:
     (i) in the case of any transaction described in clause (x) or (y) of Section 13(a), the Person that is the issuer of any securities into which shares of Common Stock of the Corporation are converted in such merger or consolidation, and if no securities are so issued, the Person that is the other party to such merger or consolidation; and
     (ii) in the case of any transaction described in clause (z) of Section 13(a), the Person that is the party receiving the greatest portion of the assets or earning power transferred pursuant to such transaction or transactions;
, , that in any such case, (1) if the Common Stock of such Person is not at such time and has not been continuously over the preceding 12-month period registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, and such Person is a direct or indirect Subsidiary of another Person the Common Stock of which is and has been so registered, "Principal Party" shall refer to such other Person; and (2) in case such Person is a Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, of more than one Person, the Common Stock of two or more of which are and have been so registered, "Principal Party" shall refer to whichever of such Persons is the issuer of the Common Stock having the greatest aggregate market value.
provided
however
          (c) The Corporation shall not consummate any such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer unless the Principal Party shall have a sufficient number of authorized shares of its Common Stock which have not been issued or reserved for issuance to permit the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance with this Section 13 and unless prior thereto the Corporation and such Principal Party shall have executed and delivered to the Rights Agent a supplemental agreement providing for the terms set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 13 and further providing that, as soon as practicable after the date of any consolidation, merger, sale or transfer of assets mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Section 13, the Principal Party will:
     (i) prepare and file a registration statement under the Act, with respect to the Rights and the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights on an appropriate form, and will use its best efforts to cause such registration statement to (A) become effective as soon as practicable after such filing and (B) remain effective (with a prospectus at all times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the Expiration Date; and
     (ii) deliver to holders of the Rights historical financial statements for the Principal Party and each of its Affiliates that comply in all respects with the requirements for registration on Form 10 under the Exchange Act.
          (d) The provisions of this Section 13 shall similarly apply to successive mergers or consolidations or sales or other transfers. In the event that a Section 13 Event shall
 
occur at any time after the occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, the Rights that have not theretofore been exercised shall thereafter become exercisable in the manner described in Section 13(a).
          Section 14. . (a) The Corporation shall not be required to issue fractions of Rights, except prior to the Distribution Date as provided in Section 11(p), or to distribute Rights Certificates which represent fractional Rights. In lieu of such fractional Rights, there shall be paid to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates with regard to which such fractional Rights would otherwise be issuable, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole Right. For purposes of this Section 14(a), the current market value of a whole Right shall be the closing price of the Rights for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date on which such fractional Rights would have been otherwise issuable. The closing price of the Rights for any day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Rights are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported to the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the Rights are listed or admitted to trading, or if the Rights are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by Nasdaq or such other system then in use or, if on any such date the Rights are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Rights selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. If on any such date no such market maker is making a market in the Rights the fair value of the Rights on such date as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be used.
Fractional Rights and Fractional Shares
          (b) The Corporation shall not be required to issue fractions of shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock) upon exercise of the Rights or to distribute certificates that represent fractional shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock). Fractions of shares of Preferred Stock in integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share may, at the election of the Corporation, be represented by depositary receipts pursuant to an appropriate agreement between the Corporation and a depositary selected by it; provided, however, that such agreement shall provide that the holders of such depositary receipts shall have all the rights, privileges and preferences to which they are entitled as beneficial owners of the shares represented by such depositary receipts. In lieu of fractional shares of Preferred Stock that are not integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock otherwise issuable hereunder, the Corporation shall pay to the registered holders of Rights Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock. For purposes of this Section 14(b), the current market value of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock shall be one one-thousandth of the closing price of a share of Preferred Stock (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(ii)) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of such exercise.
 
          (c) Following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, the Corporation shall not be required to issue fractions of shares of Common Stock upon exercise of the Rights or to distribute certificates that represent fractional shares of Common Stock. In lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable hereunder, the Corporation shall pay to the registered holders of Rights Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one share of Common Stock. For purposes of this Section 14(c), the current market value of one shares of Common Stock shall be the closing price of one shares of Common Stock (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i)) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of such exercise.
          (d) The holder of a Right by the acceptance of the Rights expressly waives such holder's right to receive any fractional Rights or any fractional shares upon exercise of a Right, except as permitted by this Section 14.
          Section 15. . All rights of action in respect of this Agreement, other than rights of action vested in the Rights Agent pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, are vested in the respective registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the registered holders of the Common Stock); and any registered holder of any Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Common Stock), without the consent of the Rights Agent or of the holder of any other Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Common Stock), may, in such holder's own behalf and for such holder's own benefit, enforce, and may institute and maintain any suit, action or proceeding against the Corporation to enforce, or otherwise act in respect of, such holder's right to exercise the Rights represented by such Rights Certificate in the manner provided in such Rights Certificate and in this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing or any remedies available to the holders of Rights, it is specifically acknowledged that the holders of Rights would not have an adequate remedy at law for any breach of this Agreement and shall be entitled to specific performance of the obligations hereunder and injunctive relief against actual or threatened violations of the obligations hereunder of any Person subject to this Agreement.
Rights of Action
          Section 16. . Every holder of a Right by accepting the same consents and agrees with the Corporation and the Rights Agent and with every holder of a Right that:
Agreement of Rights Holders
          (a) prior to the Distribution Date, the Rights will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of Common Stock;
          (b) after the Distribution Date, the Rights Certificates are transferable only on the registry books of the Rights Agent if surrendered at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purposes, duly endorsed or accompanied by a proper instrument of transfer and with the appropriate forms and certificates fully executed;
          (c) subject to Section 6(a) and Section 7(f), the Corporation and the Rights Agent may deem and treat the person in whose name a Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, the associated Common Stock certificate) is registered as the absolute owner thereof and of the Rights represented thereby (notwithstanding any notations of ownership or writing on the Rights Certificates or the associated Common Stock certificates made by anyone
 
other than the Corporation or the Rights Agent) for all purposes whatsoever, and neither the Corporation nor the Rights Agent shall be required to be affected by any notice to the contrary; and
          (d) notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, neither the Corporation nor the Rights Agent shall have any liability to any holder of a Right or other Person as a result of its inability to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement by reason of any preliminary or permanent injunction or other order, decree, judgment or ruling issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or by a governmental, regulatory or administrative agency or commission, or any statute, rule, regulation or executive order promulgated or enacted by any governmental authority, prohibiting or otherwise restraining performance of such obligation; provided, however, the Corporation must use reasonable efforts to have any such order, decree, judgment or ruling lifted or otherwise overturned as soon as possible.
          Section 17. . No holder, as such, of any Rights Certificate shall be entitled to vote, receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose to be the holder of the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock or any other securities of the Corporation which may at any time be issuable upon the exercise of the Rights represented thereby, nor shall anything contained herein or in any Rights Certificate be construed to confer upon the holder of any Rights Certificate, as such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the Corporation or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as provided in Section 25), or to receive dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights represented by such Rights Certificate shall have been exercised in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Rights Certificate Holder Not Deemed a Stockholder
          Section 18. . (a) The Corporation agrees to pay to the Rights Agent reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder and, from time to time, on demand of the Rights Agent, its reasonable expenses and counsel fees and disbursements and other disbursements incurred in the preparation, delivery, amendment and execution of this Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties hereunder. The Corporation also agrees to indemnify the Rights Agent for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability, damage, judgment, fine, penalty, claim, demand, settlement, cost or expense incurred without gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Rights Agent for any action taken, suffered or omitted by the Rights Agent in connection with the acceptance and administration of this Agreement, including without limitation the costs and expenses of defending against any claim of liability arising therefrom, directly or indirectly. The indemnity provided herein shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the termination and expiration of the Rights. The costs and expenses incurred by the Rights Agent in enforcing this indemnification shall be paid by the Corporation. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, in no event shall the Rights Agent be liable for special, indirect, consequential or incidental loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to lost profits), even if the Rights Agent has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage.
Concerning the Rights Agent
          (b) The Rights Agent shall be authorized and protected and shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in connection with its
 
acceptance and administration of this Agreement in reliance upon any Rights Certificate or certificate for Common Stock or for other securities of the Corporation, instrument of assignment or transfer, power of attorney, endorsement, affidavit, letter, notice, direction, consent, certificate, statement, or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to be executed and, where necessary, verified or acknowledged, by the proper Person or Persons, or otherwise upon the advice of counsel as set forth in Section 20.
          Section 19. . (a) Any Person into which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may be merged or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to the shareholder services business of the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent, shall be the successor to the Rights Agent under this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto; provided, however, that such Person would be eligible for appointment as a successor Rights Agent under the provisions of Section 21.
Merger or Consolidation or Change of Name of Rights Agent
          In case at the time such successor Rights Agent shall succeed to the agency created by this Agreement, any of the Rights Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, any such successor Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature of a predecessor Rights Agent and deliver such Rights Certificates so countersigned; and in case at the time any of the Rights Certificates shall not have been countersigned, any successor Rights Agent may countersign such Rights Certificates either in the name of the predecessor or in the name of the successor Rights Agent; and in all such cases such Rights Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Rights Certificates and in this Agreement.
          (b) In case at any time the name of the Rights Agent shall be changed, and at such time any of the Rights Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, the Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature under its prior name and deliver Rights Certificates so countersigned; and in case, at that time, any of the Rights Certificates shall not have been countersigned, the Rights Agent may countersign such Rights Certificates either in its prior name or in its changed name; and in all such cases such Rights Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Rights Certificates and in this Agreement.
          Section 20. . The Rights Agent undertakes only the duties and obligations expressly imposed by this Agreement upon the following terms and conditions, by all of which the Corporation and the holders of Rights Certificates, by their acceptance thereof, shall be bound:
Duties of Rights Agent
          (a) The Rights Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be legal counsel for the Corporation), and the written advice or opinion of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection to the Rights Agent and the Rights Agent shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and in accordance with such written advice or opinion.
          (b) Whenever in the performance of its duties under this Agreement the Rights Agent shall deem it necessary or desirable that any fact or matter (including, without
 
limitation, the identity of any Acquiring Person and the determination of "current market price") be proved or established by the Corporation prior to taking, omitting or suffering any action hereunder, such fact or matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Corporation and delivered to the Rights Agent; and such certificate shall be full authorization and protection to the Rights Agent, and the Rights Agent shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith under the provisions of this Agreement in reliance upon such certificate.
          (c) The Rights Agent shall be liable hereunder to the Corporation and any other Person only for its own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.
          (d) The Rights Agent shall not be liable for or by reason of any of the statements of fact or recitals contained in this Agreement or in the Rights Certificates or be required to verify the same (except as to its countersignature on such Rights Certificates), but all such statements and recitals are and shall be deemed to have been made by the Corporation only.
          (e) The Rights Agent shall not be under any liability or responsibility in respect of the validity of this Agreement or the execution and delivery hereof (except the due execution hereof by the Rights Agent) or in respect of the validity or execution of any Rights Certificate (except its countersignature thereof); nor shall it be responsible for any breach by the Corporation of any covenant or condition contained in this Agreement or in any Rights Certificate; nor shall it be responsible for any change in the exercisability of the Rights (including the Rights becoming null and void pursuant to Section 7(e) hereof) or any adjustment required under the provisions of Section 3, Section 11, Section 13, Section 23 or Section 24 or responsible for the manner, method or amount of any such adjustment or the ascertaining of the existence of facts that would require any such adjustment (except with respect to the exercise of Rights represented by Rights Certificates after actual notice of any such adjustment); nor shall it by any act hereunder be deemed to make any representation or warranty as to the authorization or reservation of any shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock to be issued pursuant to this Agreement or any Rights Certificate or as to whether any shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock will, when so issued, be validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
          (f) The Corporation agrees that it will perform, execute, acknowledge and deliver or cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged and delivered all such further and other acts, instruments and assurances as may reasonably be required by the Rights Agent for the carrying out or performing by the Rights Agent of the provisions of this Agreement.
          (g) The Rights Agent is hereby authorized and directed to accept instructions with respect to the performance of its duties hereunder from the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, and to apply to such officers for advice or instructions in connection with its duties, and it shall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith in accordance with instructions of any such officer, or for any delay in acting while waiting for those instructions.
 
Any application by the Rights Agent for written instructions from the Corporation may, at the option of the Rights Agent, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken, suffered or omitted by the Rights Agent under this Agreement and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or suffered or such omission shall be effective. The Rights Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered by, or omission of, the Rights Agent in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than five Business Days after the date the Corporation actually receives such application sent pursuant to Section 26, unless the Corporation shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to taking any such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Rights Agent shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken, suffered or omitted.
          (h) The Rights Agent and any stockholder, director, Affiliate, officer or employee of the Rights Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Rights or other securities of the Corporation or become pecuniarily interested in any transaction in which the Corporation may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the Corporation or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not Rights Agent under this Agreement. Nothing herein shall preclude the Rights Agent from acting in any other capacity for the Corporation or for any other Person.
          (i) The Rights Agent may execute and exercise any of the rights or powers hereby vested in it or perform any duty hereunder either itself or by or through its attorneys or agents, and the Rights Agent shall not be answerable or accountable for any act, default, neglect or misconduct of any such attorneys or agents or for any loss to the Corporation resulting from any such act, default, neglect or misconduct absent gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct in the selection and continued employment thereof.
          (j) No provision of this Agreement shall require the Rights Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of its rights if it believes that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnification against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
          (k) If, with respect to any Rights Certificate surrendered to the Rights Agent for exercise or transfer, the certificate attached to the form of assignment or form of election to purchase, as the case may be, has not been completed to certify by the person executing such certificate that (i) the Rights Certificate is not being sold, assigned or transferred by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person and (ii) after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the person signing such certificate, it did not acquire the Rights represented by the Rights Certificate from any Person who is, was or subsequently became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person, the Rights Agent shall not take any further action with respect to such requested exercise or transfer without first consulting with the Corporation.
          Section 21. . The Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent may resign and be discharged from its duties under this Agreement upon 30 days' notice in writing mailed to the Corporation, and to each transfer agent of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock, by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Rights Certificates by first-class mail. The Corporation may remove the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent
Change of Rights Agent
 
upon 30 days' notice in writing, mailed to the Rights Agent or successor Rights Agent, as the case may be, and to each transfer agent of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock, by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the Rights Certificates by first-class mail. If the Rights Agent shall resign or be removed or shall otherwise become incapable of acting, the Corporation shall appoint a successor to the Rights Agent. If the Corporation shall fail to make such appointment within a period of 30 days after giving notice of such removal or after it has been notified in writing of such resignation or incapacity by the resigning or incapacitated Rights Agent or by the holder of a Rights Certificate (who shall, with such notice, submit such holder's Rights Certificate for inspection by the Corporation), then any registered holder of any Rights Certificate may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a new Rights Agent. Any successor Rights Agent, whether appointed by the Corporation or by such a court, shall be (i) a Person organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or of the State of Maryland or the State of New York (or of any other state of the United States or of the District of Columbia so long as such Person is authorized to do business in the State of Maryland or the State of New York), in good standing, having an office or agency in the State of Maryland or the State of New York, which is authorized under such laws to exercise stock transfer powers and is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authority and which has at the time of its appointment as Rights Agent a combined capital and surplus of at least $10,000,000 or (ii) an Affiliate of such Person. After appointment, the successor Rights Agent shall be vested with the same powers, rights, duties and responsibilities as if it had been originally named as Rights Agent without further act or deed; but the predecessor Rights Agent shall deliver and transfer to the successor Rights Agent any property at the time held by it hereunder, and execute and deliver any further reasonable assurance, conveyance, act or deed necessary for the purpose. Not later than the effective date of any such appointment, the Corporation shall file notice thereof in writing with the predecessor Rights Agent and each transfer agent of the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock, and send by first-class mail a notice thereof in writing to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates. Failure to give any notice provided for in this Section 21 or any defect therein shall not affect the legality or validity of the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent or the appointment of the successor Rights Agent, as the case may be.
          Section 22. . Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Agreement or of the Rights to the contrary, the Corporation may, at its option, issue new Rights Certificates representing Rights in such form as may be approved by its Board of Directors to reflect any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price and the number or kind or class of shares or other securities or property purchasable under the Rights Certificates made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. In addition, in connection with the issuance or sale of shares of Common Stock following the Distribution Date and prior to the redemption or expiration of the Rights, the Corporation (a) shall, with respect to shares of Common Stock so issued or sold pursuant to the exercise of stock options or under any employee plan or arrangement, granted or awarded prior to the Distribution Date, or upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of securities hereinafter issued by the Corporation, and (b) may, in any other case, if deemed necessary or appropriate by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, issue Rights Certificates representing an appropriate number of Rights in connection with such issuance or sale; provided, however, that (i) no such Rights Certificate shall be issued if, and to the extent that, the Corporation shall be advised by counsel that such issuance would create a significant risk of material adverse tax consequences to the Corporation or the Person to whom such Rights
Issuance of New Rights Certificates
 
Certificate would be issued and (ii) no such Rights Certificate shall be issued if, and to the extent that, appropriate adjustment shall otherwise have been made in lieu of the issuance thereof.
          Section 23. . (a) The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, at its option, at any time prior to the earlier of (i) the Close of Business on the tenth day following the Stock Acquisition Date (or, if the Stock Acquisition Date shall have occurred prior to the Record Date, the Close of Business on the tenth day following the Record Date) or (ii) the Final Expiration Date, redeem all but not less than all the then outstanding Rights at a redemption price of $.01 per Right, as such amount may be appropriately adjusted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such redemption price being hereinafter referred to as the "Redemption Price"). Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the Rights shall not be exercisable after the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event until such time as the Corporation's right of redemption hereunder has expired. The Corporation may, at its option, pay the Redemption Price in cash, shares of Common Stock (based on the "current market price", as defined in Section 11(d)(i), of the shares of Common Stock at the time of redemption) or any other form of consideration deemed appropriate by its Board of Directors. The redemption of the Rights by the Board of Directors may be made effective at such time, on such basis and with such conditions such Board of Directors in its sole discretion may establish.
Redemption and Termination
          (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation ordering the redemption of the Rights, evidence of which shall have been filed with the Rights Agent and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right thereafter of the holders of Rights shall be to receive the Redemption Price for each Right so held. Promptly after the action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation ordering the redemption of the Rights, the Corporation shall give notice of such redemption to the Rights Agent and the holders of the then outstanding Rights by mailing such notice to all such holders at each holder's last address as it appears upon the registry books of the Rights Agent or, prior to the Distribution Date, on the registry books of the transfer agent for the Common Stock; provided, however, that the failure to give, or any defect in, such notice shall not affect the validity of such redemption. Any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of redemption will state the method by which the payment of the Redemption Price will be effected.
          Section 24. . (a) The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, at its option, at any time after any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, exchange all or part of the then outstanding and exercisable Rights (which shall not include Rights that have become null and void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e)) for shares of Common Stock at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock per Right, appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such exchange ratio being hereinafter referred to as the "Exchange Ratio"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall not be empowered to effect such exchange at any time after any Person (other than the Corporation, any Subsidiary of the Corporation, any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or of any Subsidiary of the Corporation, or any Person organized, appointed or established by the Corporation for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan),
Exchange
 
together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, becomes the Beneficial Owner of 50% or more of the Common Stock then outstanding.
          (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation ordering the exchange of any Rights pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 24 and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise such Rights shall terminate and the only right thereafter of a holder of any such Rights shall be to receive that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of such Rights held by such holder multiplied by the Exchange Ratio. The Corporation shall promptly give public notice (with prompt notice thereof to the Rights Agent) of any exchange; provided, however, that the failure to give, or any defect in, such notice shall not affect the validity of such exchange. The Corporation promptly shall mail a notice of any such exchange to all of the holders of such Rights at their last addresses as they appear upon the registry books of the Rights Agent. Any notice that is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of exchange will state the method by which the exchange of the shares of Common Stock for Rights will be effected and, in the event of any partial exchange, the number of Rights that will be exchanged. Any partial exchange will be effected pro rata based on the number of Rights (other than Rights that have become null and void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e)) held by each holder of Rights.
          (c) In any exchange pursuant to this Section 24, the Corporation, at its option, may substitute shares of Preferred Stock (or equivalent preferred stock, as such term is defined in paragraph (b) of Section 11) for shares of Common Stock exchangeable for Rights, at the initial rate of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock (or equivalent preferred stock) for each share of Common Stock, as appropriately adjusted to reflect adjustments in the voting rights of the Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms thereof, so that the fraction of a share of Preferred Stock delivered in lieu of each share of Common Stock shall have the same voting rights as one share of Common Stock.
          (d) In the event that there shall not be sufficient shares of Common Stock issued but not outstanding or authorized but unissued to permit any exchange of Rights as contemplated in accordance with this Section 24, the Corporation shall take all such actions as may be necessary to authorize additional shares of Common Stock for issuance upon exchange of the Rights.
          (e) The Corporation shall not be required to issue fractions of shares of Common Stock or to distribute certificates that represent fractional shares of Common Stock. In lieu of such fractional shares of Common Stock, there shall be paid to the registered holders of the Rights Certificates with regard to which such fractional shares of Common Stock would otherwise be issuable, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole share of Common Stock. For the purposes of this subsection (e), the current market value of a whole share of Common Stock shall be the closing price of a share of Common Stock (as determined pursuant to the second sentence of Section 11(d)(i)) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of exchange pursuant to this Section 24.
          Section 25. . (a) In case the Corporation shall propose, at any time after the Distribution Date, (i) to pay any dividend payable in stock of any class to
Notice of Certain Events
 
the holders of Preferred Stock or to make any other distribution to the holders of Preferred Stock (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend out of earnings or retained earnings of the Corporation), (ii) to offer to the holders of Preferred Stock rights or warrants to subscribe for or to purchase any additional shares of Preferred Stock or shares of stock of any class or any other securities, rights or options, (iii) to effect any reclassification of its Preferred Stock (other than a reclassification involving only the subdivision of outstanding shares of Preferred Stock), (iv) to effect any consolidation or merger into or with any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Corporation in a transaction that complies with Section 11(o)), or to effect any sale or other transfer (or to permit one or more of its Subsidiaries to effect any sale or other transfer), in one transaction or a series of related transactions, of more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person or Persons (other than the Corporation and/or any of its Subsidiaries in one or more transactions each of which complies with Section 11(o)) or (v) to effect the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, then, in each such case, the Corporation shall give to the Rights Agent and to each holder of a Rights Certificate, to the extent feasible and in accordance with Section 26, a notice of such proposed action, which shall specify the record date for the purposes of such stock dividend, distribution of rights or warrants, or the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution, or winding up is to take place and the date of participation therein by the holders of the shares of Preferred Stock, if any such date is to be fixed, and such notice shall be so given in the case of any action covered by clause (i) or (ii) above at least 20 days prior to the record date for determining holders of the shares of Preferred Stock for purposes of such action, and in the case of any such other action, at least 20 days prior to the date of the taking of such proposed action or the date of participation therein by the holders of the shares of Preferred Stock, whichever shall be the earlier.
          (b) In case a Section 11(a)(ii) Event shall occur, then, in any such case, (i) the Corporation shall as soon as practicable thereafter give to each holder of a Rights Certificate, to the extent feasible and in accordance with Section 26, a notice of the occurrence of such event, which shall specify the event and the consequences of the event to holders of Rights under Section 11(a)(ii), and (ii) all references in the preceding paragraph to Preferred Stock shall be deemed thereafter to refer to shares of Common Stock and/or, if appropriate, other securities.
          Section 26. . Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Rights Agent or by the holder of any Rights Certificate to or on the Corporation shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the Rights Agent) as follows:
Notices
          Subject to the provisions of Section 21, any notice or demand authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Corporation or by the holder of any Rights Certificate to or on the Rights Agent shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the Corporation) as follows:
 
          Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the Corporation or the Rights Agent to the holder of any Rights Certificate (or, if prior to the Distribution Date, to the holder of certificates representing shares of Common Stock) shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such holder at the address of such holder as shown on the registry books of the Corporation.
          Section 27. . The Corporation may from time to time supplement or amend this Agreement without the approval of any holders of Rights Certificates in order to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision contained herein that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to the Rights that the Corporation may deem necessary or desirable, any such supplement or amendment to be evidenced by a writing signed by the Corporation and the Rights Agent; provided, however, that from and after such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, this Agreement shall not be amended in any manner that would adversely affect the interests of the holders of Rights, and further provided that the Rights Agent is not obligated to enter into any such supplement or amendment that would change or increase the duties, liabilities or obligations of the Rights Agent hereunder. Prior to the Distribution Date, the interest of the holders of Rights shall be deemed coincident with the interests of the holders of Common Stock.
Supplements and Amendments
          Section 28. . All the covenants and provisions of this Agreement by or for the benefit of the Corporation or the Rights Agent shall bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns hereunder.
Successors
          Section 29. . For all purposes of this Agreement, any calculation of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at any particular time, including for purposes of determining the particular percentage of such outstanding shares of Common Stock of which any Person is the Beneficial Owner, shall be made in accordance with the last sentence of Rule 13d-3(d)(l)(i) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act. The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the exclusive power and authority to administer this Agreement and to exercise all rights and powers specifically granted to the Board of Directors of the Corporation or to the Corporation, or as may be necessary or advisable in the administration of this Agreement, including, without limitation, the right and power to (i) interpret the provisions of this Agreement and (ii) make all determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, a determination to redeem or not redeem the Rights or to amend this Agreement). All such actions, calculations, interpretations and determinations (including, for purposes of clause (y) below, all omissions with respect to the foregoing) that are done or made by the Board of Directors of the Corporation in good faith shall (x) be final, conclusive and binding on the Corporation, the Rights Agent, the holders of the Rights and all other Persons, and (y) not subject the Board of Directors of the Corporation to any liability to the holders of the Rights or any other Person. The Rights Agent is entitled to always assume that the
Determination and Actions by the Board of Directors, etc
 
Board of Directors of the Corporation acted in good faith and shall be fully protected and incur no liability in reliance thereon.
          Section 30. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to give to any Person other than the Corporation, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, registered holders of the Common Stock) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement; but this Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Corporation, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, registered holders of the Common Stock).
Benefits of this Agreement
          Section 31. . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated; provided, however, that notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if any such term, provision, covenant or restriction is held by such court or authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable and the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines in its good faith judgment that severing the invalid language from this Agreement would materially adversely affect the purpose or effect of this Agreement, the right of redemption set forth in Section 23 shall be reinstated and shall not expire until the Close of Business on the tenth day following the date of such determination by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Severability
          Section 32. . This Agreement, each Right and each Rights Certificate issued hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Maryland and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State; provided, however, that the rights, privileges, protections and immunities of the Rights Agent pursuant to Section 18, Section 19, Section 20 and Section 21 shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          Section 33. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          Section 34. . Descriptive headings of the several Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof. Section references herein are to the several Sections of this Agreement unless otherwise specified.
Descriptive Headings
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
Exhibit A
          Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies to the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland that:
          FIRST: Under a power contained in Article FIFTH of the charter of the Corporation (the "Charter") in accordance with Section 2-208 of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the "MGCL"), the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting duly called and held, reclassified and redesignated 1,000,000 shares (the "Shares") of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation, par value $0.01 per share, as shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation, par value $0.01 per share, with the preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption as follows, which upon any restatement of the Charter shall be made part of Article FIFTH of the Charter, with any necessary or appropriate changes to the enumeration or lettering of the provisions thereof (all capitalized terms used herein that are defined in the Charter shall be deemed to have the meanings provided therein):
          Section 1. . The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 1,000,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors and filing of articles supplementary in accordance with the MGCL stating that such increase or decrease has been so authorized; provided, however, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into shares of Series A Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
          Section 2. . (A) Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if authorized by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first business day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $.01 or (b) subject to the provisions for adjustment hereinafter set forth, (i) 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in
Dividends and Distributions
 
shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation (the "Common Stock") or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after March 15, 1999 (the "Rights Declaration Date") (x) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (y) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock or (z) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b)(i) of the next preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
          (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) above immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided, however, that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior to and superior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, a dividend of $.01 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless by payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
          (C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
          Section 3. . The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
 
          (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare and pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
          (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote collectively as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
     (C) (i) If at any time dividends on any Series A Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (herein called a "default period") which shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. During each default period, all holders of Preferred Stock (including holders of the Series A Preferred Stock) with dividends in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, voting as a class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect two Directors.
     (ii) During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a special meeting called pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Section 3(C) or at any annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of stockholders, provided that such voting right shall not be exercised unless the holders of 10% in number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy. The absence of a quorum of the holders of Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by the holders of Preferred Stock of such voting rights. At any meeting at which the holders of Preferred Stock shall exercise such voting rights initially during an existing default period, they shall have the right, voting as a class, to elect Directors to fill such vacancies, if any, in the Board of Directors as may then exist up to two Directors or, if such right is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect two Directors. If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of Directors as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required number. After the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect Directors in any default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of Directors shall not be increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of Preferred Stock as
 
herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity securities ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series A Preferred Stock.
     (iii) Unless the holders of Preferred Stock shall, during an existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect Directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this paragraph (C)(iii) shall be given to each holder of record of Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of such notice to him or her at his or her last address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 10 days and not later than 50 days after such order or request, or in default of the calling of such meeting within 50 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (C)(iii), no such special meeting shall be called during the period within 50 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
     (iv) In any default period, the holders of Common Stock, and, if applicable, other classes of stock of the Corporation, shall continue to be entitled to elect the whole number of Directors until the holders of Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right, voting as a class, to elect two Directors, after the exercise of which right (x) the Directors so elected by the holders of Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period and (y) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except as provided in paragraph (C)(ii) of this Section 3) be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining Directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class of stock that elected the Director whose office shall have become vacant. References in this paragraph (C) to Directors elected by the holders of a particular class of stock shall include Directors appointed by such Directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the foregoing sentence.
     (v) Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of the holders of Preferred Stock as a class to elect Directors shall cease, (y) the term of any Directors elected by the holders of Preferred Stock as a class shall terminate and (z) the number of Directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the Charter or by-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (C)(ii) of this Section 3 (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the Charter or by-laws). Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by the provisions of
 
clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining Directors.
          (D) Except as set forth herein, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action (including any merger or any issuance of Preferred Stock senior in right of payment or otherwise to the Series A Preferred Stock).
          Section 4. . (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
Certain Restrictions
     (i) declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
     (ii) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
     (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or
     (iv) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
          (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the
 
Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
     Section 5. . Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
Reacquired Shares
     Section 6. . (A) Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (a "Liquidation Event"), no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received the sum (the "Series A Liquidation Preference") of (a) $1000 per share, plus (b) an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment. Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the "Common Adjustment") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the sum of (X) $1000 per share plus (Y) an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions on the Series A Preferred Stock, whether or not declared, to the date of payment of the Series A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 1000 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in subparagraph (C) below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) (such number in clause (ii), the "Adjustment Number"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock, respectively, and the payment of liquidation preferences of all other shares of stock which rank prior to or on a parity with Series A Preferred Stock, holders of Series A Preferred Stock and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively. In determining whether a distribution (other than upon the occurrence of a Liquidation Event), by dividend, redemption or other acquisition of shares of stock of the Corporation or otherwise, is permitted under Maryland law, amounts that would be needed, if the Corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock whose preferential rights upon dissolution are senior to those receiving the distribution shall not be added to the Corporation's total liabilities.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
     (B) In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of Preferred Stock, if any, which rank on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.
 
     (C) In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare and pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     Section 7. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, that would be held or receivable upon the consummation of such consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction by a holder of a share of Common Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare and pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
     Section 8. . The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
     Section 9. . The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, whether or not upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
Ranking
     Section 10. . The Charter shall not be amended in any manner that would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock, as set forth herein, so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
Amendment
     Section 11. . Series A Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock.
Fractional Shares
 
     SECOND: The Shares have been classified and designated by the Board of Directors under the authority contained in the Charter.
     THIRD: These Articles Supplementary have been approved by the Board of Directors in the manner and by the vote required by law.
     FOURTH: The undersigned of the Corporation acknowledges these Articles Supplementary to be the corporate act of the Corporation and, as to all matters or facts required to be verified under oath, the undersigned acknowledges that to the best of his knowledge, information and belief, these matters and facts are true in all material respects and that this statement is made under the penalties for perjury.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. has caused its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and these Articles Supplementary to be signed by its Senior Vice President & Treasurer, and the same to be attested to by its Assistant Secretary, this 7th day of April, 2006.
 
Exhibit B
          Certificate No. R- Rights
                    
          NOT EXERCISABLE AFTER APRIL 5, 2009 OR EARLIER IF REDEEMED OR EXCHANGED BY THE CORPORATION. THE RIGHTS ARE SUBJECT TO REDEMPTION, AT THE OPTION OF THE CORPORATION, AT $.01 PER RIGHT, AND TO EXCHANGE ON THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT. UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, RIGHTS BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY AN ACQUIRING PERSON (AS SUCH TERM IS DEFINED IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT) AND ANY SUBSEQUENT HOLDER OF SUCH RIGHTS MAY BECOME NULL AND VOID. [THE RIGHTS REPRESENTED BY THIS RIGHTS CERTIFICATE ARE OR WERE BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY A PERSON WHO WAS OR BECAME AN ACQUIRING PERSON OR AN AFFILIATE OR ASSOCIATE OF AN ACQUIRING PERSON (AS SUCH TERMS ARE DEFINED IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT). ACCORDINGLY, THIS RIGHTS CERTIFICATE AND THE RIGHTS REPRESENTED HEREBY MAY BECOME NULL AND VOID IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES SPECIFIED IN SECTION 7(e) OF SUCH AGREEMENT.]*
 
*           The portion of the legend in brackets shall be inserted only if applicable and shall replace the preceding sentence.
          This certifies that , or registered assigns, is the registered owner of the number of Rights set forth above, each of which entitles the owner thereof, subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of April 7, 2006 (the "Rights Agreement"), between Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Corporation"), and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, a New York banking corporation, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent"), to purchase from the Corporation at any time prior to 5:00 P.M. (New York City time) on April 5, 2009 at the office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, or its successors as Rights Agent, one one-thousandth of a fully paid, nonassessable share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), of the Corporation, at a purchase price of $125 per one one-thousandth of a share (the "Purchase Price"), upon presentation and surrender of this Rights Certificate with the Form of Election to Purchase and related Certificate duly executed. The number of Rights represented by this Rights Certificate (and the number of shares that may be purchased upon exercise thereof) set forth above, and the Purchase Price per share set forth above, are the number and Purchase Price as of March 15, 1999, based on the Preferred Stock as constituted at such date. The Corporation reserves the right to require prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement) that, upon any exercise of Rights, a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole shares of Preferred Stock will be issued.
                    
 
          Upon the occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement), if the Rights represented by this Rights Certificate are beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), (ii) a transferee of any such Acquiring Person, Associate or Affiliate or (iii) under certain circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement, a transferee of a person who, after such transfer, became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of such Person, such Rights shall become null and void and no holder hereof shall have any right with respect to such Rights from and after the occurrence of such Section 11(a)(ii) Event.
          As provided in the Rights Agreement, the Purchase Price and the number and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or other securities that may be purchased upon the exercise of the Rights represented by this Rights Certificate are subject to modification and adjustment upon the happening of certain events, including Triggering Events.
          This Rights Certificate is subject to all the terms, provisions and conditions of the Rights Agreement, which terms, provisions and conditions are hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof and to which Rights Agreement reference is hereby made for a full description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities hereunder of the Rights Agent, the Corporation and the holders of the Rights Certificates, which limitations of rights include the temporary suspension of the exercisability of such Rights under the specific circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement. Copies of the Rights Agreement are on file at the above-mentioned office of the Rights Agent and are also available upon written request to the Rights Agent.
          This Rights Certificate, with or without other Rights Certificates, upon surrender at the principal office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, may be exchanged for another Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates of like tenor and date representing Rights entitling the holder to purchase a like aggregate number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock as the Rights represented by the Rights Certificates surrendered shall have entitled such holder to purchase. If this Rights Certificate shall be exercised in part, the holder shall be entitled to receive upon surrender hereof another Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates for the number of whole Rights not exercised.
          Subject to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, the Rights represented by this Certificate may, in each case at the option of the Corporation, be (i) redeemed by the Corporation at its option at a redemption price of $.01 per Right or (ii) exchanged in whole or in part for shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation, or other securities of the Corporation.
          Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the Corporation authorizing redemption, the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the redemption price.
          No fractional shares of Preferred Stock will be issued upon the exercise of any Right or Rights represented hereby (other than fractions that are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock, which may, at the election of the Corporation, be
 
evidenced by depositary receipts), but in lieu thereof a cash payment will be made, as provided in the Rights Agreement.
          No holder of this Rights Certificate shall be entitled to vote or receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of shares of Preferred Stock or of any other securities of the Corporation that may at any time be issuable on the exercise hereof, nor shall anything contained in the Rights Agreement or herein be construed to confer upon the holder hereof, as such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the Corporation or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or to receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as provided in the Rights Agreement), or to receive dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights represented by this Rights Certificate shall have been exercised as provided in the Rights Agreement.
          This Rights Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose until it shall have been countersigned manually or by facsimile signature by the Rights Agent.
          WITNESS the facsimile signature of the proper officers of the Corporation and its corporate seal.
Dated as of ,
                    
     
          
 
this Rights Certificate, together with all right, title and interest therein, and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Attorney, to transfer the within Rights Certificate on the books of the within-named Corporation, with full power of substitution.
                    
     The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes that:
     (1) this Rights Certificate [ ] is [ ] is not being sold, assigned or transferred by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined pursuant to the Rights Agreement);
     (2) after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned, it [ ] did [ ] did not acquire the Rights represented by this Rights Certificate from any Person who is, was or subsequently became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person.
 
          The signature to the foregoing Assignment and Certificate must correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Rights Certificate in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.
TO: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE, INC.
          The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise ___Rights represented by this Rights Certificate to purchase the shares of Preferred Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Rights (or such other securities of the Corporation or of any other person which may be issuable upon the exercise of the Rights) and requests that certificates for such shares (or other securities) be issued in the name of and delivered to:
Please insert social security or other identifying number:
                    
                    
          If such number of Rights shall not be all the Rights represented by this Rights Certificate, a new Rights Certificate for the balance of such Rights shall be registered in the name of and delivered to:
Please insert social security or other identifying number:
                    
                    
 
     The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes that:
     (1) the Rights represented by this Rights Certificate [ ] are [ ] are not being exercised by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined pursuant to the Rights Agreement);
     (2) after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned, it [ ] did [ ] did not acquire the Rights represented by this Rights Certificate from any Person who is, was or subsequently became an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person.
          The signature to the foregoing Election to Purchase and Certificate must correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Rights Certificate in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.
 
Exhibit C
          SUMMARY OF RIGHTS TO PURCHASE PREFERRED STOCK
          On March 15, 1999, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Corporation") declared a dividend distribution of one Right for each outstanding share of the Company's common stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), to stockholders of record at the Close of Business on April 5, 1999. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Corporation one one-thousandth of a share (a "Preferred Fraction") of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), at a Purchase Price of $125 per Preferred Fraction, subject to adjustment. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in an Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of April 7, 2006 (the "Rights Agreement"), between the Corporation and American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, as Rights Agent.
          Initially, the Rights will be attached to all Common Stock certificates representing shares then outstanding, and no separate Rights certificates will be distributed. The Rights will separate from the Common Stock and the Distribution Date will occur upon the earlier of (i) 10 days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons (an "Acquiring Person") has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (the "Stock Acquisition Date") or (ii) 10 business days (or such later date as may be determined by action of the Board of Directors prior to such time as any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person) following the commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in a person or group beneficially owning 15% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.
          Until the Distribution Date, (i) the Rights will be represented by the Common Stock certificates and will be transferred with and only with such Common Stock certificates, (ii) new Common Stock certificates issued after April 5, 1999, will contain a notation incorporating the Rights Agreement by reference and (iii) the surrender for transfer of any certificates for Common Stock outstanding will also constitute the transfer of the Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificate.
          Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, the Corporation reserves the right to require prior to the occurrence of a Triggering Event (as defined below) that, upon any exercise of Rights, a number of Rights be exercised so that only whole shares of Preferred Stock will be issued.
          The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date and will expire at the Close of Business on April 5, 2009, unless earlier redeemed by the Corporation as described below.
          As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, Rights certificates will be mailed to holders of record of the Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date and, thereafter, the separate Rights certificates alone will represent the Rights. Except as otherwise provided in the Rights Agreement, only shares of Common Stock issued prior to the Distribution Date will be issued with Rights.
 
          In the event that, at any time following the Distribution Date, a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, each holder of a Right will thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, one share of Common Stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. If an insufficient number of shares of Common Stock is authorized for issuance, then the Board of Directors would be required to substitute cash, property or other securities of the Corporation for the shares of Common Stock. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, following the occurrence of the event set forth in this paragraph, all Rights that are, or (under certain circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement) were, beneficially owned by any Acquiring Person (or by certain related parties) will be null and void. However, Rights are not exercisable following the occurrence of the event set forth in this paragraph until such time as the Rights are no longer redeemable by the Corporation as set forth below.
          For example, at an exercise price of $125 per Right, each Right not owned by an Acquiring Person (or by certain related parties) following an event set forth in the preceding paragraph would entitle its holder to purchase $250 worth of shares of Common Stock (or other consideration, as noted above) for $125. Assuming that each share of Common Stock had a value of $50 at such time, the holder of each valid Right would be entitled to purchase 5 shares of Common Stock for $125.
          In the event that, at any time following the Stock Acquisition Date, (i) the Corporation is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Corporation is not the surviving corporation, (ii) the Corporation is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction in which the Corporation is the surviving corporation and all or part of the Common Stock is converted into securities of another entity, cash or other property or (iii) 50% or more of the Corporation's assets or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights that previously have been voided as set forth above) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. The events set forth in this paragraph and in the second preceding paragraph are referred to as the "Triggering Events."
          The purchase price payable, and the number of Preferred Fractions or other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution (i) in the event of a stock dividend on, or a subdivision, combination or reclassification of, the Preferred Stock, (ii) if holders of the Preferred Stock are granted certain rights, options or warrants to subscribe for Preferred Stock or convertible securities at less than the current market price of the Preferred Stock or (iii) upon the distribution to holders of the Preferred Stock of evidences of indebtedness or assets (excluding regular quarterly cash dividends) or of subscription rights or warrants (other than those referred to above).
          With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the Purchase Price will be required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the Purchase Price. No fractional Preferred Fractions will be issued and, in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash will be made based on the market price of the Preferred Stock on the last trading day prior to the date of exercise.
          At any time after any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person and prior to the acquisition by such person or group of 50% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, the Corporation may exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by such person or
 
group, which will have become void), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock, or one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock (or of a share of a class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock having equivalent rights, preferences and privileges), per Right (subject to adjustment).
          In general, the Corporation may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $.01 per Right (subject to adjustment and payable in cash, shares of Common Stock or other consideration deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors) at any time until ten days following the Stock Acquisition Date.
          Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors authorizing any redemption, the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the redemption price.
          Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no rights as a stockholder of the Corporation, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends. While the distribution of the Rights will not result in the recognition of taxable income by stockholders or the Corporation, stockholders may, depending upon the circumstances, recognize taxable income after a Triggering Event.
          The terms of the Rights may be amended by the Board of Directors of the Corporation without the consent of the holders of the Rights, except that from and after such time as any person or group of affiliated or associated persons becomes an Acquiring Person no such amendment may adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Rights.
          A copy of the Rights Agreement is available free of charge from the Rights Agent. This description of the Rights does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Rights Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference.

 
EX-4.3
Execution Copy
 
     SECOND INDENTURE SUPPLEMENT dated as of April 9, 2006 (this "Supplement"), among Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., a corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Maryland ("Starwood"), Sheraton Holding Corporation (formerly named ITT Corporation and ITT Destinations, Inc.), a corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Nevada ("SHC"), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (successor to The Bank of New York and The First National Bank of Chicago), as trustee (the "Trustee").
     SHC and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered a certain Amended and Restated Indenture (the "Restated Indenture") dated as of December 19, 1995 (as supplemented by a First Indenture Supplement executed and delivered by SHC, Starwood and the Trustee, dated as of December 31, 1998 (the "First Supplement" and, collectively with the Restated Indenture, the "Indenture")), which provides for the issuance from time to time by the "Issuer" (as defined in the Indenture) of its debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness in one or more series ("Securities", as more fully defined in the Indenture) and the unconditional guarantee by the "Guarantor" (as defined in the Indenture) of the full and punctual payment, when due, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities previously issued under the Indenture and outstanding on the date of the First Supplement, and the full and punctual performance within the grace period set forth in Section 6.1(d) or (e) of the Indenture, if applicable, of all other obligations of the Issuer under such Securities or under the Indenture as applicable to such Securities (the "Guarantee").
     Prior to the effectiveness of this Supplement, SHC has issued Securities under the Indenture and, as of the date of this Supplement, the only Securities that have been issued and remain outstanding under the Indenture consist of $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7/% Debentures due November 15, 2015 and $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7/% Debentures due November 15, 2025.
3
8
3
4
     In connection with the Master Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 14, 2005, as amended on March 24, 2006, among Host Marriott Corporation ("Host"), Host Marriott, L.P., Starwood, Starwood Hotels & Resorts, SHC and the other parties thereto, SHC is, in a series of transactions simultaneously with the execution of this Supplement, transferring its property and assets substantially as an entirety to Starwood.
     Article Eleven of the Indenture requires that Starwood, as a condition of the transfer to it of the property and assets of SHC as, or substantially as, an entirety, execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplement. This Supplement amends the Indenture, pursuant to Section 10.1 thereof and Article Eleven thereof, to reflect the assumption by Starwood of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Securities of each series and the Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto and the performance and observance of each and every covenant and condition of the Indenture on the part of the Issuer to be performed or observed, to the same extent that the Issuer is bound and liable, and to release SHC from all its liabilities and obligations under the Indenture and under the Securities.
 
     All conditions, acts and proceedings required by law, by the Indenture and by the certificates of incorporation and bylaws of SHC and Starwood necessary to constitute this Supplement a legal, valid and binding agreement for the uses and purposes herein set forth in accordance with its terms have been complied with, done and performed, and the execution and delivery of this Supplement have in all respects been duly authorized.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other parties and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined in the Indenture) of the Securities.
     SECTION 1.01. . Starwood hereby assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Securities of each series and the Coupons, if any, appertaining thereto and the performance and observance of each and every covenant and condition of the Indenture on the part of the Issuer to be performed or observed, to the same extent that the Issuer is bound and liable. In connection with such assumption, the following amendments are hereby made to the Indenture:
Assumption of Indenture and Securities by Starwood
     (a) Section 1.01 of the Indenture is hereby amended to delete the definition of "Issuer" and to insert in its place the following:
"Issuer' means Starwood Hotel & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., a Maryland corporation, and, subject to Article Eleven, its successors and assigns."
     (b) Section 13.5 is hereby amended to delete "ITT CORPORATION, Attention of Corporate Secretary, 1330 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10019-5490" in the first sentence thereof, and to insert in its place the following:
"Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., Attention of the General Counsel, 1111 Westchester Avenue, White Plains, NY 10604"
     SECTION 1.02. . SHC is hereby released from all its liabilities and obligations under the Indenture and under the Securities.
Release of SHC
     SECTION 2.01. . This Supplement shall take effect as of the date hereof.
Effectiveness
 
     SECTION 2.02. . Except as herein expressly provided, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed by Starwood and the Trustee and all the terms, provisions and conditions thereof are and will remain in full force and effect.
Indenture Ratified
     SECTION 2.03. . The Trustee has executed this Supplement only upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee shall not be responsible for the correctness of the recitals herein contained, which shall be taken as the statements of Starwood and SHC, and the Trustee makes no representation and shall have no responsibility for, and in respect of, the validity or sufficiency of this Supplement or the execution thereof by Starwood or SHC.
Execution by the Trustee
     SECTION 2.04. . This Supplement shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
Governing Law
     SECTION 2.05. . This Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one instrument.
Execution in Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Indenture Supplement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

 
EX-4.4
Execution Copy
          This Amendment No. 1 to Exchange Rights Agreement is made as of April 10, 2006 (this "") by and among Starwood Hotels & Resorts (formerly Hotel Investors Trust), a real estate investment trust organized under the laws of the State of Maryland (the ""), Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (formerly Hotel Investors Corporation), a Maryland corporation (the ""), SLT Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), and SLC Operating Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "").
Amendment
Trust
Corporation
Realty Partnership
Operating Partnership
          WHEREAS, the Corporation, the Trust, the Realty Partnership and the Operating Partnership, each of the limited partners of the Realty Partnership and the Operating Partnership listed on the signature pages thereto (such limited partners, collectively, the ""), and Firebird Consolidated Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), entered into that certain Exchange Rights Agreement (the "") as of January 1, 1995 (unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used herein are used herein as defined in the Agreement);
Starwood Partners
Firebird
Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Agreement provides for the rights of the Starwood Partners to tender Units (as defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement of the Realty Partnership (the "")) of the Realty Partnership (such Units issued by the Realty Partnership to Starwood Partners or Firebird being hereinafter called the "") and Units (as defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership (as amended from time to time, the "")) of the Operating Partnership (such Units issued by the Operating Partnership to Starwood Partners or Firebird being hereinafter called the "") in exchange for either Paired Shares (as defined therein), cash or a combination of Paired Shares and cash, on the terms and conditions set forth therein;
Realty Partnership Agreement
Realty Units
Operating Partnership Agreement
Operating Units
          WHEREAS, the Corporation, the Trust and the Realty Partnership are parties to the Master Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into as of November 14, 2005, as amended on March 24, 2006 (the ""), by and among Host Marriott Corporation, Host Marriott, L.P. (""), Horizon Supernova Merger Sub, L.L.C., Horizon SLT Merger Sub, L.P., the Corporation, the Trust, Sheraton Holding Corporation and the Realty Partnership, pursuant to which agreement Host OP would acquire all of the outstanding stock of the Trust (and, indirectly, the interests in Realty Partnership) in a reverse subsidiary merger transaction, and the Trust and the Realty Partnership would thereafter become wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries of Host OP;
Master Agreement
Host OP
          WHEREAS, the Corporation and the Trust were parties to the Pairing Agreement dated June 25, 1980 between the Corporation and the Trust, as amended and restated pursuant to the Amended and Restated Intercompany Agreement, dated as of January 6, 1999 (the ""), between the Corporation and the Trust, pursuant to which each Class B share of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share, of the Trust (""), and
Intercompany Agreement
Class B Shares
 
each share of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation (""), were paired together as a unit such that Class B Shares are transferable only with an equal number of Corporation Shares and vice versa;
Corporation Shares
          WHEREAS, on April 7, 2006, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement, the Corporation and the Trust terminated the Intercompany Agreement, thereby de-pairing the Class B Shares from the Corporation Shares; and
          WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Agreement to reflect the transactions and other matters described above and, pursuant to Sections 1(c) and 18 of the Agreement, the parties hereto may amend the Agreement without the consent of the other parties to the Agreement;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and conditions set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
          Section 1. .
Amendments
          (a) Sections 1 through and including 9 of the Agreement are hereby amended by deleting all such Sections in their entirety and adding in lieu thereof Sections 1 through and including 9 as set forth on hereto.
Schedule A
          (b) Section 10 of the Agreement is hereby amended by substituting the addresses for notices to the Corporation or the Operating Partnership, with the following:
"Starwood Hotels & Resort Worldwide, Inc. 1111 Westchester Avenue White Plains, New York 10604 Attention: General Counsel Telecopy No. (914) 640-8310
with a copy to:
Sidley Austin One South Dearborn Street Chicago, Illinois 60603 Attention: Michael A. Gordon Telecopy No. (312) 853-7036"
LLP
          (c) Section 11 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Section in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof the following:
          "SECTION 11. . For purposes of this Agreement:
Definitions
     "" shall mean, with respect to a particular date, the last reported sales price regular way on such date or, in case no such reported sale takes place on such date, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices regular
Corporation Share Closing Price
 
way on such date, in either case on the New York Stock Exchange, or if the Corporation Shares are not then listed or admitted to trading on such Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Corporation Shares are then listed or admitted to trading or, if not then listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the closing sale price on such date of the Corporation Shares or, in case no reported sale takes place on such date then, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such date, on NASDAQ or any comparable system. If the Corporation Shares are not then quoted on NASDAQ or any comparable system, the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall in good faith determine the Corporation Share Closing Price."
     "" has the meaning set forth in the By-Laws of the Corporation, as amended from time to time.
Disinterested Members
     "" has the meaning set forth in the Restated Articles, in each case as amended from time to time.
Ownership Limit
     "" means the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time after the date of this Agreement.
Restated Articles
          (d) Section 12 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Section in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof the following: "SECTION 12. . All interpretations of the terms of this Agreement shall be resolved on behalf of the Corporation by its Disinterested Members."
Determinations and Interpretation
          (e) Section 14 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the term "Starwood Units" and adding in lieu thereof the term "Operating Units".
          (f) Section 18 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the words "each of the Trust and" immediately prior to the words "the Corporation" in the second sentence of such Section.
          (g) Section 20 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Section in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof the following: "SECTION 20. ."
Reserved
          (h) to the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Exhibit in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof a new as set forth on hereto.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Schedule B
          Section 2. . Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, all of the terms and provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect; and the parties hereto make no other amendment, alteration or modification of the Agreement nor do they, nor does any of them, by executing this Amendment, waive any provision of the Agreement or any right that they or it may have thereunder.
No Other Amendment or Waiver
          Section 3. . Except to the extent that Maryland law is mandatorily applicable to the rights and obligations of the stockholders of the Corporation, this Amendment, and the application or interpretation thereof, shall be governed exclusively by its terms and by the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts
Governing Law
 
of laws as applied in the State of New York or any other jurisdiction which, if applied, would result in the application of any laws other than the internal laws of the State of New York.
          Section 4. . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be considered an original counterpart, and shall become a binding agreement when the Corporation, the Trust, the Realty Partnership and the Operating Partnership shall have each executed a counterpart of this Amendment.
Execution in Counterparts
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the parties hereto or by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date first above written.
 
          SECTION 1. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, each holder of Operating Units shall have the right to tender to the Corporation outstanding Operating Units.
Right to Tender Operating Units
          (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no Corporation Shares or cash shall be issued or paid in respect of any tender of Operating Units (i) prior to the expiration or termination of the waiting period applicable to such exchange and issuance, if any, under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as it may be amended from time to time or (ii) prior to the receipt of all governmental and regulatory approvals which are required to be obtained prior to such tender and issuance or payment.
          (b) The right to exchange Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement constitute a continuous offer and may not be withdrawn, amended or modified by the Corporation without the prior written consent of each holder of outstanding Operating Units adversely affected by such withdrawal, amendment or modification; that any withdrawal, amendment or modification that does not adversely affect any holder of outstanding Operating Units may be effected without the consent of such holder.
provided
          SECTION 2. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the Corporation shall accept Operating Units validly tendered in proper form and meeting all of the requirements of this Agreement. In order for Operating Units to be validly tendered pursuant to this Agreement, the registered holder thereof shall deliver to the Corporation, at the address provided pursuant to Section 10, a completed and duly executed Letter of Transmittal in the form attached hereto as (the "") and any other documents required by the Letter of Transmittal. The Corporation shall make all determinations as to the validity and form of any tender of Operating Units in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and upon rejection of a tender shall give the tendering holder written notice of such rejection, which shall include the reasons therefor.
Acceptance of Tender; Election of Method of Payment for Tendered Operating Units
Exhibit A
Letter of Transmittal
          (a) Unless otherwise determined by the Corporation, tenders of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement shall be irrevocable and shall not be subject to withdrawal or modification; that if the Corporation makes the Share Election with respect to a tender, then within three days after such Election the tendering holder may elect to revoke such tender so long as (i) no public disclosure of such tender has been made prior to such revocation and (ii) such tendering holder reimburses the Corporation for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with such tender.
provided
          (b) Within fifteen days after the valid tender pursuant to this Agreement of Operating Units, the Corporation shall make an election to pay for such Operating Units by delivering either (i) Corporation Shares (the ""), (ii) cash (the "") or (iii) a combination of Corporation Shares and cash (the "").
Share Election
Cash Election
Combined Election
          SECTION 3. . (a) If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation makes the Share Election, then within twenty
Share Election
 
days after such tender the Corporation shall deliver to the tendering holder one Corporation Share for each Operating Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
          (a) No fractional Corporation Shares or scrip representing fractional Corporation Shares shall be issued upon exchange of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement. If more than one Letter of Transmittal shall be delivered at one time by the same holder, the number of full Corporation Shares which shall be issuable upon exchange of the Operating Units tendered thereby shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of Operating Units so tendered. Instead of any fractional Corporation Shares which would otherwise be issuable upon exchange of any Operating Units, the Corporation shall pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fraction in an amount equal to the same fraction of the Corporation Share Closing Price on the last business day preceding the date of exchange.
          (b) If a holder exchanges Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement, the Corporation shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on any issue of Corporation Shares upon such exchange. Such holder, however, shall (i) pay to the Corporation the amount of any additional documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax which is due (or shall establish to the satisfaction of the Corporation the payment thereof) as a result of Corporation Shares being issued in a name other than the name of such holder and (ii) be responsible for all income or other taxes as a result of such exchange.
          SECTION 4. . If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation makes or is deemed to have made the Cash Election, then within twenty days after such tender the Corporation shall pay to the tendering holder an aggregate amount of cash (the "") equal to the product of (i) the number of Corporation Shares which would have been delivered to such holder if the Corporation had made the Share Election with respect to such tender and (ii) the average Corporation Share Closing Price for the ten trading day period ending one day prior to the date of such tender.
Cash Election
Aggregate Cash Payment
          SECTION 5. . (a) If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation shall make the Combined Election, then within twenty days after such tender the Corporation shall (i) notify the tendering holder of the number of such tendered Operating Units which will be exchanged for cash (the "") and the number of such tendered Operating Units which will be exchanged for Corporation Shares (the ""), (ii) pay to the tendering holder, in respect of each Cash Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, an amount of cash equal to the average Corporation Share Closing Price for the ten trading day period ending one day prior to the date of such tender and (iii) deliver to the tendering holder one Corporation Share for each Corporation Share Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Combined Election
Cash Units
Corporation Share Units
          (a) The provisions of Sections 3(b) and 3(c) of this Agreement shall apply to the issuance of Corporation Shares pursuant to Section 5(a).
          SECTION 6. . If at any time after one year from the date of this Agreement, (a) a Starwood Partner validly tenders Operating Units pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, (b) the Corporation makes the Share Election or the Combined Election with respect to such tender, or (c) as a result of the Ownership Limit such Starwood
Registration Rights
 
Partner cannot receive the full number of Corporation Shares otherwise issuable to such Starwood Partner pursuant to such tender and such Election (without giving effect to the Ownership Limit) (the event described in clauses (a), (b) and (c) being referred to as a ""; the number of such Corporation Shares which such Starwood Partner cannot receive pursuant to such tender as a result of the Ownership Limit being referred to as the ""; and the Operating Units tendered in respect of such Unissued Corporation Shares being referred to as the ""), then (i) subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, such Starwood Partner shall be entitled to receive the number of Corporation Shares which it can receive pursuant to such tender, such Election and the Ownership Limit.
Corporation Share Tender Reduction
Unissued Corporation Shares
Delayed Payment Units
          SECTION 7. . Each tender of Operating Units shall constitute a representation and warranty by the tendering holder of each of the representations and warranties set forth in the form of Letter of Transmittal. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, unless, at the time of a tender for exchange of Operating Units, pursuant to this Agreement, a registration statement relating to any Corporation Shares to be delivered upon such tender is effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), such tender shall constitute a representation and warranty by the tendering holder to the Corporation that such tendering holder (i) is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501 under the Securities Act; (ii) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investing in entities similar to the Operating Partnership and the Corporation so as to be able to evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the Operating Partnership and the Corporation and it is able financially to bear the risks thereof; (iii) has had an opportunity to discuss the business, management and financial affairs of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation with the management of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation; and (iv) understands that the Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act by reason of their issuance in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof or Rule 505 or 506 promulgated under the Securities Act and such Corporation Shares must be held indefinitely unless a subsequent disposition thereof is registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or is exempt from such registration.
Representations of Tendering Holder
Securities Act
          SECTION 8. . Until the holder of Operating Units tendered pursuant to this Agreement becomes a holder of record of the Corporation Shares issued in exchange therefor (in the case of a Share Election or a Combined Election) or until such holder has received cash in exchange therefor (in the case of a Cash Election or a Combined Election), such holder shall continue to hold and own such Operating Units for all purposes of the Operating Partnership Agreement. In the case of a Share Election or a Combined Election, no such holder shall have any rights as a stockholder of the Corporation in respect of such Corporation Shares until such holder becomes a holder of record of such Corporation Shares.
Status of Tendering Holder
          SECTION 9. . The Corporation shall reserve and shall at all times have reserved out of its authorized but unissued Corporation Shares, solely for the purpose of effecting the exchange of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement, enough Corporation Shares to permit the exchange of the then outstanding Operating Units. All Corporation Shares which may be issued upon exchange of the Operating Units shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free from all taxes, liens and
Reservation of Shares; Closing of Transfer Books
 
charges with respect to the issuance thereof other than income taxes resulting from such exchange. The Corporation shall not close its transfer books so as to prevent the timely issuance of Corporation Shares pursuant to this Agreement.
 
EXHIBIT A TO
EXCHANGE RIGHTS AGREEMENT
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The undersigned hereby tenders to Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc (the "") the above-described Operating Units (as defined in the Exchange Rights Agreement dated as of January 1, 1995, as amended (the "")) in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Exchange Rights Agreement and this Letter of Transmittal (which together constitute the ""), receipt of which is hereby acknowledged. All terms used herein but not defined herein are used as defined in the Exchange Rights Agreement.
Corporation
Exchange Rights Agreement
Offer
          Subject to, and effective upon the issuance of Corporation Shares and/or the payment of cash, as the case may be, for the Operating Units tendered hereby, the undersigned hereby assigns and transfers to the Corporation all right, title and interest in and to all the Operating Units that are being tendered hereby and irrevocably constitutes and appoints the Corporation (the ""), with full power of substitution (such power of attorney being deemed to be an irrevocable power coupled with an interest), to (i) transfer such Operating Units on the books of the Operating Partnership and (ii) receive all rights, privileges and benefits, and any and all obligations and liabilities appertaining thereto and otherwise exercise all rights of beneficial ownership of such Operating Units, all in accordance with the terms of the Offer.
Agent
          The undersigned hereby represents and warrants to the Corporation (i) that the undersigned has full power and authority to tender, sell, assign and transfer the tendered Operating Units and that upon payment therefor, the Corporation will acquire unencumbered title thereto, free and clear of all liens, restrictions, charges and encumbrances and the same will not be subject to any adverse claim, and (ii) that the tender complies with each and every provision of Section 1 of the Exchange Rights Agreement. The undersigned will, upon request, execute any additional documents deemed by the Corporation to be reasonably necessary or desirable to complete the sale, assignment and transfer of the tendered Operating Units.
          Unless a registration statement relating to any Corporation Shares to be delivered to the undersigned is effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), the undersigned hereby represents and warrants to the Corporation that the undersigned (i) is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501 under the Securities Act; (ii) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investing in entities similar to the Operating Partnership and the Corporation so as to be able to evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the Operating Partnership and the Corporation and it is able financially to bear the risks thereof; (iii) has had an opportunity to discuss the business, management and financial affairs of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation with the management of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation; and (iv) understands that any such Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act by reason of their issuance in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof or Rule 505 or 506 promulgated under the Securities Act, and any such Corporation Shares must be held indefinitely unless a subsequent disposition thereof is registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or is exempt from such
Securities Act
 
registration. If not sold pursuant to an effective registration statement, any such Corporation Shares will bear an appropriate legend indicating that such Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act and resale of such Corporation Shares is restricted under applicable securities laws.
          All authority conferred or agreed to be conferred in this Letter of Transmittal shall not be affected by, and shall survive, the death or incapacity of the undersigned, and any obligation of the undersigned hereunder shall be binding upon the successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives of the undersigned.
          The undersigned understands that, except as provided in Section 2(b) of the Exchange Rights Agreement, a tender of Operating Units pursuant to the Exchange Rights Agreement is irrevocable and constitutes a binding agreement between the undersigned and the Corporation upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Exchange Rights Agreement.
          Unless otherwise indicated under "Special Delivery Instructions", please mail any Corporation Shares issuable upon exchange of the Operating Units tendered hereby (or, if the Cash Election or the Combined Election is made, the cash payment payable pursuant thereto) to the address(es) of the registered holder(s) appearing under "Description of Units." In the event that the Special Delivery Instructions are completed, please issue the Corporation Shares (or, if the Cash Election or the Combined Election is made, the cash payment payable pursuant thereto) in the name of the registered holder(s) and transmit the same to the person or persons so indicated.
          The Corporation and the undersigned agree that they will cooperate with each other and will make, execute, acknowledge, deliver, record and file, or cause to be made, executed, acknowledged, delivered, recorded and filed, at such times and places as the other may reasonably deem necessary, all other and further documents and instruments, and will take all other and further actions, as the other may reasonably request from time to time in order to effectuate the purposes and provisions of the tender made pursuant to this Letter of Transmittal.
 
          To be completed ONLY if Corporation Shares or the cash payment are to be sent to someone other than the undersigned or to the undersigned at an address other than that above.
Mail certificate(s) for Corporation Shares or cash payment to:
(please print)
(include Zip Code)
(Tax Identification or Social Security Number)
(Must be signed by registered holder(s) as name(s) appear(s) on books and records of the Operating Partnership. If signature is by trustees, executors, administrators, guardians, attorneys-in-fact, officers of corporations or others acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, please set forth full title and see Instruction 4.)
(please print)
(include Zip Code)
 
          1. . No signature guarantee on this Letter of Transmittal is required unless the registered holder of the Operating Units has completed the box entitled "Special Delivery Instructions". In such case all signatures on this Letter of Transmittal must be guaranteed by a member firm of any registered national securities exchange in the United States or of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or by a commercial bank or trust company (not a savings bank or a savings and loan association) having an office, branch or agency in the United States.
Guarantee of Signature
          2. . This Letter of Transmittal is to be completed by the holder of Operating Units. A properly completed and duly executed Letter of Transmittal and any other documents required by this Letter of Transmittal must be received by the Agent.
Delivery of Letter of Transmittal
          No alternative, conditional or contingent tenders will be accepted.
          3. . If the space provided herein is inadequate, the Operating Units tendered and/or other information required should be listed on a separate schedule attached hereto.
Inadequate Space
          4. . The signature must correspond with the name as shown on the books and records of the Operating Partnership without any change whatsoever.
Signatures on Letter of Transmittal
          If any of the Operating Units tendered hereby are owned of record by two or more joint owners, all such owners must sign the Letter of Transmittal.
          If any tendered Operating Units are registered in different names, it will be necessary to complete, sign and submit as many separate Letters of Transmittal as there are different registrations.
          If this Letter of Transmittal is signed by trustees, executors, administrators, guardians, attorneys-in-fact, officers of corporations or others acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, each person should so indicate when signing, and proper evidence satisfactory to the Agent of their authority so to act must be submitted.
          5. . If a certificate for Corporation Shares or the cash payment is to be sent to someone other than the signer of this Letter of Transmittal or to an address other than that shown above, the appropriate boxes on this Letter of Transmittal should be completed.
Special Delivery Instructions
          6. . The Corporation reserves the right to waive in its sole discretion any of the specified conditions of the Offer in the case of the Operating Units
Waiver of Conditions
 
tendered; that any such waiver shall not adversely affect any holder of outstanding Operating Units without the consent of such holder.
provided
          7. . Under the Federal income tax law, a person surrendering Operating Units must provide the Agent with his correct taxpayer identification number ("") on Substitute Form W-9 below unless an exemption applies. If the correct TIN is not provided, a $50 penalty may be imposed by the Internal Revenue Service and payments made in exchange for the surrendered Operating Units may be subject to back-up withholding of that rate provided by the Federal income tax law (such rate being at the date of the last amendment of the Exchange Rights Agreement, 28 %).
Back-up Withholding
TIN
          The TIN that must be provided is that of the registered holder of the Operating Units. The TIN for an individual is his social security number.
          8. Requests for Assistance or Additional Copies. Questions and requests for assistance or additional copies of the Exchange Rights Agreement and the Letter of Transmittal may be directed to the Agent at the address set forth above.
 
          Under Federal income tax laws, a holder whose tendered Operating Units are accepted for payment is required by law to provide the Agent (as payer) with his correct taxpayer identification number on Substitute Form W-9 below. If such holder is an individual, the taxpayer identification number is his social security number. If the Agent is not provided with the correct taxpayer identification number, the holder may be subject to a $50 penalty imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, payments that are made to such holder with respect to Operating Units purchased pursuant to the Offer may be subject to back-up withholding.
          If back-up withholding applies, the Agent is required to withhold, at that rate provided by the Federal income tax law (such rate being at the date of last amendment of the Exchange Rights Agreement 28%), of any such payments made to the holder of Operating Units. Corporation Shares otherwise deliverable hereunder may, at the expense (and with all risk of loss for the account) of the undersigned, be sold to pay such amounts. Back-up withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the tax liability of persons subject to back-up withholding will be reduced by the amount of tax withheld. If withholding results in an overpayment of taxes, a refund may be obtained.
Purpose of Substitute Form W-9
          To prevent back-up withholding on payments that are made to a holder of Operating Units purchased pursuant to the Offer, the holder is required to notify the Agent of his correct taxpayer identification number by completing the form below certifying that the taxpayer identification number provided on Substitute Form W-9 is correct.
What Number to Give the Agent
          The holder is required to give the Agent the social security number or employer identification number of the record owner of the Operating Units.
 
PAYER'S NAME: Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.

 
Ex-4.5
Execution Copy
          This Amendment No. 1 to Exchange Rights Agreement is made as of April 10, 2006 (this "") by and among Starwood Hotels & Resorts (formerly Starwood Lodging Trust), a real estate investment trust organized under the laws of the State of Maryland (the ""), Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (formerly Starwood Lodging Corporation), a Maryland corporation (the ""), SLT Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), and SLC Operating Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "").
Amendment
Trust
Corporation
Realty Partnership
Operating Partnership
          WHEREAS, the Corporation, the Trust, the Realty Partnership, the Operating Partnership, Philadelphia HIR Limited Partnership, a Massachusetts limited partnership (""), and Philadelphia HSR Limited Partnership, a Massachusetts limited partnership (""), entered into that certain Exchange Rights Agreement (the "") as of June 3, 1996 (unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used herein are used herein as defined in the Agreement);
HIR
HSR
Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Agreement provides for the rights of HIR and HSR to tender Units (as defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement of the Realty Partnership (the "")) of the Realty Partnership (such Units issued by the Realty Partnership to HIR or HSR being hereinafter called the "") and Units (as defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership (as amended from time to time, the "")) of the Operating Partnership (such Units issued by the Operating Partnership to HIR or HSR being hereinafter called the "") in exchange for either Paired Shares (as defined therein), cash or a combination of Paired Shares and cash, on the terms and conditions set forth therein;
Realty Partnership Agreement
Realty Units
Operating Partnership Agreement
Operating Units
          WHEREAS, the Corporation, the Trust and the Realty Partnership are parties to the Master Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into as of November 14, 2005, as amended on March 24, 2006 (the ""), by and among Host Marriott Corporation, Host Marriott, L.P. (""), Horizon Supernova Merger Sub, L.L.C., Horizon SLT Merger Sub, L.P., the Corporation, the Trust, Sheraton Holding Corporation and the Realty Partnership, pursuant to which agreement Host OP would acquire all of the outstanding stock of the Trust (and, indirectly, the interests in Realty Partnership) in a reverse subsidiary merger transaction, and the Trust and the Realty Partnership would thereafter become wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries of Host OP;
Master Agreement
Host OP
          WHEREAS, the Corporation and the Trust were parties to the Pairing Agreement dated June 25, 1980 between the Corporation and the Trust, as amended and restated pursuant to the Amended and Restated Intercompany Agreement, dated as of January 6, 1999 (the ""), between the Corporation and the Trust, pursuant to which each Class B share of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share, of the Trust (""), and each share of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation ("
Intercompany Agreement
Class B Shares
Corporation
 
"), were paired together as a unit such that Class B Shares are transferable only with an equal number of Corporation Shares and vice versa;
Shares
          WHEREAS, on April 7, 2006, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement, the Corporation and the Trust terminated the Intercompany Agreement, thereby de-pairing the Class B Shares from the Corporation Shares; and
          WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Agreement to reflect the transactions and other matters described above and, pursuant to Sections 1(c) and 16 of the Agreement, the parties hereto may amend the Agreement without the consent of the other parties to the Agreement;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and conditions set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
          Section 1. .
Amendments
          (a) Sections 1 through and including 8 of the Agreement are hereby amended by deleting all such Sections in their entirety and adding in lieu thereof Sections 1 through and including 8 as set forth on Schedule A hereto.
          (b) Section 9 of the Agreement is hereby amended by substituting the addresses for notices to the Corporation or the Operating Partnership with the following:
"Starwood Hotels & Resort Worldwide, Inc. 1111 Westchester Avenue White Plains, New York 10604 Attention: General Counsel Telecopy No. (914) 640-8310
with a copy to:
Sidley Austin One South Dearborn Street Chicago, Illinois 60603 Attention: Michael A. Gordon Telecopy No. (312) 853-7036"
LLP
          (c) Section 10 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Section in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof the following:
          "SECTION 10. . For the purpose of this Agreement:
Definitions
     "" shall mean, with respect to a particular date, the last reported sales price regular way on such date or, in case no such reported sale takes place on such date, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices regular way on such date, in either case on the New York Stock Exchange, or if the Corporation
Corporation Share Closing Price
 
Shares are not then listed or admitted to trading on such Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Corporation Shares are then listed or admitted to trading or, if not then listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the closing sale price on such date of the Corporation Shares or, in case no reported sale takes place on such date then, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such date, on NASDAQ or any comparable system. If the Corporation Shares are not then quoted on NASDAQ or any comparable system, the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall in good faith determine the Corporation Share Closing Price."
          (d) Section 18 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such section in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof the following: "SECTION 18. ."
Reserved
          (e) to the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Exhibit in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof a new as set forth on hereto.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Schedule B
          Section 2. . Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, all of the terms and provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, and the parties hereto make no other amendment, alteration or modification of the Agreement nor do they, nor does any of them, by executing this Amendment, waive any provision of the Agreement or any right that they or it may have thereunder.
No Other Amendment or Waiver
          Section 3. . Except to the extent that Maryland law is mandatorily applicable to the rights and obligations of the stockholders of the Corporation, this Amendment, and the application or interpretation thereof, shall be governed exclusively by its terms and by the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws as applied in the State of New York or any other jurisdiction which, if applied, would result in the application of any laws other than the internal laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          Section 4. . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be considered an original counterpart, and shall become a binding agreement when the Trust, the Corporation, the Realty Partnership, the Operating Partnership shall have each executed a counterpart of this Amendment.
Execution in Counterparts
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the parties hereto or by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date first above written.
 
          SECTION 1. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, each holder of Operating Units shall have the right to tender to the Corporation outstanding Operating Units and upon making such tender, in accordance with, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each such holder shall be entitled to receive certain Corporation Shares as provided for below.
Right to Tender Operating Units
          (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no Corporation Shares or cash shall be issued or paid in respect of any tender of Operating Units (i) prior to the expiration or termination of the waiting period applicable to such exchange and issuance, if any, under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as it may be amended from time to time, or (ii) prior to the receipt of all governmental and regulatory approvals which are required to be obtained prior to such tender and issuance or payment.
          (c) The rights to exchange Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement constitute a continuous offer and may not be withdrawn, amended or modified by the Corporation without the prior written consent of each holder of outstanding Operating Units adversely affected by such withdrawal, amendment or modification; that any withdrawal, amendment or modification that does not adversely affect any holder of outstanding Operating Units may be effected without the consent of such holder.
provided
          SECTION 2. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the Corporation shall accept Operating Units validly tendered in proper form and meeting all of the requirements of this Agreement. In order for Operating Units to be validly tendered pursuant to this Agreement, the registered holder thereof shall deliver to the Corporation, at the address provided pursuant to Section 9, a completed and duly executed Letter of Transmittal in the form attached hereto as (the "") and any other documents required by the Letter of Transmittal. The Corporation shall reasonably make all determinations as to the validity and form of any tender of Operating Units in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and upon rejection of a tender shall give the tendering holder written notice of such rejection, which shall include the reasons therefor.
Acceptance of Tender; Election of Method of Payment for Tendered Operating Units
Exhibit A
Letter of Transmittal
          (b) HIR and HSR will have the right to request, as part of a tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Section 2, that the Corporation (or, at the election of the Corporation and the Operating Partnership) exchange a minimum number of Operating Units for cash (""). The Cash Request must be part of the Letter of Transmittal (as an attachment or as part of the text of the letter). The price and terms of payment for each Operating Unit tendered pursuant to a Cash Request will be consistent with Sections 4 and 5 (depending on which provision is applicable to the tender of Operating Units subject to the Cash Request). The maximum amount of cash paid by the Corporation pursuant to all Cash Requests under this Agreement will be an aggregate amount of $270,000. The Corporation (or, at the election of the Corporation and the Operating Partnership) will promptly pay to HIR or HSR, the amount of any Cash Request which fulfills the foregoing requirements of this clause (b).
Cash Request
 
          (c) Unless otherwise determined by the Corporation, tenders of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement shall be irrevocable and shall not be subject to withdrawal or modification; that if the Corporation makes the Share Election (as defined below) with respect to a tender, then within three days after such Election the tendering holder may elect to revoke such tender so long as (i) no public disclosure of such tender has been made prior to such revocation and (ii) such tendering holder reimburses the Corporation for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with such tender.
provided
          (d) Within fifteen days after the valid tender pursuant to this Agreement of Operating Units, the Corporation shall make an election to pay for such Operating Units by delivering either (i) Corporation Shares (the ""), (ii) cash (the "") or (iii) a combination of Corporation Shares and cash (the "").
Share Election
Cash Election
Combined Election
          SECTION 3. . (a) If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation makes the Share Election, then within twenty days after such tender the Corporation shall deliver to the tendering holder one Corporation Share for each Operating Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Share Election
          (b) No fractional Corporation Shares or scrip representing fractional Corporation Shares shall be issued upon exchange of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement. If more than one Letter of Transmittal shall be delivered at one time by the same holder, the number of full Corporation Shares which shall be issuable upon exchange of the Operating Units tendered thereby shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of Operating Units so tendered. Instead of any fractional Corporation Shares which would otherwise be issuable upon exchange of any Operating Units, the Corporation shall pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fraction in an amount equal to the same fraction of the Corporation Share Closing Price on the last business day preceding the date of exchange.
          (c) If a holder exchanges Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement, the Corporation shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on any issue of Corporation Shares upon such exchange. Such holder, however, shall (i) pay to the Corporation the amount of any additional documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax which is due (or shall establish to the satisfaction of the Corporation the payment thereof) as a result of Corporation Shares being issued in a name other than the name of such holder and (ii) be responsible for all income or other taxes as a result of such exchange.
          SECTION 4. . If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation makes or is deemed to have made the Cash Election, then within twenty days after such tender the Corporation shall pay to the tendering holder an aggregate amount of cash (the "") equal to the product of (i) the number of Corporation Shares which would have been delivered to such holder if the Corporation had made the Share Election with respect to such tender and (ii) the average Corporation Share Closing Price for the ten trading day period ending one trading day prior to the date of such tender (it being agreed that the date of tender shall be the date the tendering registered holder of the Operating Units shall be deemed to have given to the Corporation, the Letter of Transmittal).
Cash Election
Aggregate Cash Payment
 
          SECTION 5. . (a) If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation shall make the Combined Election, then within twenty days after such tender the Corporation shall (i) notify the tendering holder of the number of such tendered Operating Units which will be exchanged for cash (the "") and the number of such tendered Operating Units which will be exchanged for Corporation Shares (the ""), (ii) pay to the tendering holder, in respect of each Cash Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, an amount of cash equal to the average Corporation Share Closing Price for the ten trading day period ending one trading day prior to the date of such tender and (iii) deliver to the tendering holder one Corporation Share for each Operating Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Combined Election
Cash Units
Corporation Share Units
          (b) The provisions of Sections 3(b) and 3(c) of this Agreement shall apply to the issuance of Corporation Shares pursuant to Section 5(a).
          SECTION 6. . Each tender of Operating Units (other than a Cash Request) shall constitute a representation and warranty by the tendering holder of each of the representations and warranties set forth in the Letter of Transmittal. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, unless, at the time of a tender for exchange of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement, a registration statement relating to any Corporation Shares to be delivered upon such tender is effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), such tender shall constitute a representation and warranty by the tendering holder to the Corporation that such tendering holder (i) is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501 under the Securities Act; (ii) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investing in entities similar to the Corporation and the Operating Partnership so as to be able to evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the Corporation and the Operating Partnership, and it is able financially to bear the risks thereof; (iii) has had an opportunity to discuss the business, management and financial affairs of the Corporation and the Operating Partnership with the management of the Corporation and the Operating Partnership; and (iv) understands that the Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act by reason of their issuance in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof or Rule 505 or 506 promulgated under the Securities Act and such Corporation Shares must be held indefinitely unless a subsequent disposition thereof is registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or is exempt from such registration.
Representations of Tendering Holder
Securities Act
          SECTION 7. . Until the holder of Operating Units tendered pursuant to this Agreement becomes a holder of record of the Corporation Shares issued in exchange therefor (in the case of a Share Election or a Combined Election) or until such holder has received cash in exchange therefor (in the case of a Cash Election or a Combined Election), such holder shall continue to hold and own such Operating Units for all purposes of the Operating Partnership Agreement. In the case of a Share Election or a Combined Election, no such holder shall have any rights as a stockholder of the Corporation in respect of such Corporation Shares until such holder becomes a holder of record of such Corporation Shares.
Status of Tendering Holder
          SECTION 8. . The Corporation shall reserve and shall at all times have reserved out of its authorized but unissued Corporation Shares, solely for the purpose of effecting the exchange of Operating Units pursuant
Reservation of Shares; Closing of Transfer Books
 
to this Agreement, enough Corporation Shares to permit the exchange of the then outstanding Operating Units. All Corporation Shares which may be issued upon exchange of Operating Units shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issuance thereof other than income taxes resulting from such exchange.
 
EXHIBIT A TO
EXCHANGE RIGHTS AGREEMENT
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The undersigned hereby tenders to Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc (the "") the above-described Operating Units (as defined in the Exchange Rights Agreement dated as of June 3, 1996, as amended (the "")) in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Exchange Rights Agreement and this Letter of Transmittal (which together constitute the ""), receipt of which is hereby acknowledged. All terms used herein but not defined herein are used as defined in the Exchange Rights Agreement.
Corporation
Exchange Rights Agreement
Offer
          Subject to, and effective upon the issuance of Corporation Shares and/or the payment of cash, as the case may be, for the Operating Units tendered hereby, the undersigned hereby assigns and transfers to the Corporation all right, title and interest in and to all the Operating Units that are being tendered hereby and irrevocably constitutes and appoints the Corporation (the ""), with full power of substitution (such power of attorney being deemed to be an irrevocable power coupled with an interest), to (i) transfer such Operating Units on the books of the Operating Partnership and (ii) receive all rights, privileges and benefits, and any and all obligations and liabilities appertaining thereto and otherwise exercise all rights of beneficial ownership of such Operating Units, all in accordance with the terms of the Offer.
Agent
          The undersigned hereby represents and warrants to the Corporation (i) that the undersigned has full power and authority to tender, sell, assign and transfer the tendered Operating Units and that upon payment therefor, the Corporation will acquire unencumbered title thereto, free and clear of all liens, restrictions, charges and encumbrances and the same will not be subject to any adverse claim, and (ii) that the tender complies with each and every provision of Section 1 of the Exchange Rights Agreement. The undersigned will, upon request, execute any additional documents deemed by the Corporation to be reasonably necessary or desirable to complete the sale, assignment and transfer of the tendered Operating Units.
          Unless a registration statement relating to any Corporation Shares to be delivered to the undersigned is effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), the undersigned hereby represents and warrants to the Corporation that the undersigned (i) is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501 under the Securities Act; (ii) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investing in entities similar to the Operating Partnership and the Corporation so as to be able to evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the Operating Partnership and the Corporation and it is able financially to bear the risks thereof; (iii) has had an opportunity to discuss the business, management and financial affairs of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation with the management of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation; and (iv) understands that any such Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act by reason of their issuance in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof or Rule 505 or 506 promulgated under the Securities Act, and any such Corporation Shares must be held indefinitely unless a subsequent disposition thereof is registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or is exempt from such
Securities Act
 
registration. If not sold pursuant to an effective registration statement, any such Corporation Shares will bear an appropriate legend indicating that such Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act and resale of such Corporation Shares is restricted under applicable securities laws.
     All authority conferred or agreed to be conferred in this Letter of Transmittal shall not be affected by, and shall survive, the death or incapacity of the undersigned, and any obligation of the undersigned hereunder shall be binding upon the successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives of the undersigned.
     The undersigned understands that, except as provided in Section 2(c) of the Exchange Rights Agreement, a tender of Operating Units pursuant to the Exchange Rights Agreement is irrevocable and constitutes a binding agreement between the undersigned and the Corporation upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Exchange Rights Agreement.
     Unless otherwise indicated under "Special Delivery Instructions", please mail any Corporation Shares issuable upon exchange of the Operating Units tendered hereby (or, if the Cash Election or the Combined Election is made, the cash payment payable pursuant thereto) to the address(es) of the registered holder(s) appearing under "Description of Units." In the event that the Special Delivery Instructions are completed, please issue the Corporation Shares (or, if the Cash Election or the Combined Election is made, the cash payment payable pursuant thereto) in the name of the registered holder(s) and transmit the same to the person or persons so indicated.
     The Corporation and the undersigned agree that they will cooperate with each other and will make, execute, acknowledge, deliver, record and file, or cause to be made, executed, acknowledged, delivered, recorded and filed, at such times and places as the other may reasonably deem necessary, all other and further documents and instruments, and will take all other and further actions, as the other may reasonably request from time to time in order to effectuate the purposes and provisions of the tender made pursuant to this Letter of Transmittal.
 
          To be completed ONLY if Corporation Shares or the cash payment are to be sent to someone other than the undersigned or to the undersigned at an address other than that above.
Mail certificate(s) for Corporation Shares or cash payment to:
(Must be signed by registered holder(s) as name(s) appear(s) on books and records of the Operating Partnership. If signature is by trustees, executors, administrators, guardians, attorneys-in-fact, officers of corporations or others acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, please set forth full title and see Instruction 4.)
 
          1. . No signature guarantee on this Letter of Transmittal is required unless the registered holder of the Operating Units has completed the box entitled "Special Delivery Instructions". In such case all signatures on this Letter of Transmittal must be guaranteed by a member firm of any registered national securities exchange in the United States or of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or by a commercial bank or trust company (not a savings bank or a savings and loan association) having an office, branch or agency in the United States.
Guarantee of Signature
          2. . This Letter of Transmittal is to be completed by the holder of Operating Units. A properly completed and duly executed Letter of Transmittal and any other documents required by this Letter of Transmittal must be received by the Agent.
Delivery of Letter of Transmittal
          No alternative, conditional or contingent tenders will be accepted.
          3. . If the space provided herein is inadequate, the Operating Units tendered and/or other information required should be listed on a separate schedule attached hereto.
Inadequate Space
          4. . The signature must correspond with the name as shown on the books and records of the Operating Partnership without any change whatsoever.
Signatures on Letter of Transmittal
          If any of the Operating Units tendered hereby are owned of record by two or more joint owners, all such owners must sign the Letter of Transmittal.
          If any tendered Operating Units are registered in different names, it will be necessary to complete, sign and submit as many separate Letters of Transmittal as there are different registrations.
          If this Letter of Transmittal is signed by trustees, executors, administrators, guardians, attorneys-in-fact, officers of corporations or others acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, each person should so indicate when signing, and proper evidence satisfactory to the Agent of their authority so to act must be submitted.
          5. . If a certificate for Corporation Shares or the cash payment is to be sent to someone other than the signer of this Letter of Transmittal or to an address other than that shown above, the appropriate boxes on this Letter of Transmittal should be completed.
Special Delivery Instructions
          6. . The Corporation reserves the right to waive in its sole discretion any of the specified conditions of the Offer in the case of the Operating Units
Waiver of Conditions
 
tendered; that any such waiver shall not adversely affect any holder of outstanding Operating Units without the consent of such holder.
provided
          7. . Under the Federal income tax law, a person surrendering Operating Units must provide the Agent with his correct taxpayer identification number ("TIN") on Substitute Form W-9 below unless an exemption applies. If the correct TIN is not provided, a $50 penalty may be imposed by the Internal Revenue Service and payments made in exchange for the surrendered Operating Units may be subject to back-up withholding of that rate provided by the Federal income tax law (such rate being at the date of the last amendment of the Exchange Rights Agreement, 28 %).
Back-up Withholding
          The TIN that must be provided is that of the registered holder of the Operating Units. The TIN for an individual is his social security number.
          8. . Questions and requests for assistance or additional copies of the Exchange Rights Agreement and the Letter of Transmittal may be directed to the Agent at the address set forth above.
Requests for Assistance or Additional Copies
 
          Under Federal income tax laws, a holder whose tendered Operating Units are accepted for payment is required by law to provide the Agent (as payer) with his correct taxpayer identification number on Substitute Form W-9 below. If such holder is an individual, the taxpayer identification number is his social security number. If the Agent is not provided with the correct taxpayer identification number, the holder may be subject to a $50 penalty imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, payments that are made to such holder with respect to Operating Units purchased pursuant to the Offer may be subject to back-up withholding.
          If back-up withholding applies, the Agent is required to withhold, at that rate provided by the Federal income tax law (such rate being at the date of last amendment of the Exchange Rights Agreement 28%), of any such payments made to the holder of Operating Units. Corporation Shares otherwise deliverable hereunder may, at the expense (and with all risk of loss for the account) of the undersigned, be sold to pay such amounts. Back-up withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the tax liability of persons subject to back-up withholding will be reduced by the amount of tax withheld. If withholding results in an overpayment of taxes, a refund may be obtained.
Purpose of Substitute Form W-9
          To prevent back-up withholding on payments that are made to a holder of Operating Units purchased pursuant to the Offer, the holder is required to notify the Agent of his correct taxpayer identification number by completing the form below certifying that the taxpayer identification number provided on Substitute Form W-9 is correct.
What Number to Give the Agent
          The holder is required to give the Agent the social security number or employer identification number of the record owner of the Operating Units.
 
PAYER'S NAME: Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.

 
EX - 4.6
Execution Copy
     This Amendment No. 1 to Units Exchange Rights Agreement is made as of April 10, 2006 (this "") by and among Starwood Hotels & Resorts (formerly Starwood Lodging Trust), a real estate investment trust organized under the laws of the State of Maryland (the ""), Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (formerly Starwood Lodging Corporation), a Maryland corporation (the ""), SLT Realty Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), and SLC Operating Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "").
Amendment
Trust
Corporation
Realty Partnership
Operating Partnership
     WHEREAS, the Corporation, the Trust, the Realty Partnership, the Operating Partnership and each of the limited partners of the Realty Partnership and the Operating Partnership listed on the signature pages thereto (such limited partners, collectively, the "") entered into that certain Units Exchange Rights Agreement (the "") as of February 14, 1997 (unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used herein are used herein as defined in the Agreement);
Starwood Partners
Agreement
     WHEREAS, the Agreement provides for the rights of the Starwood Partners to tender Units (as defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement of the Realty Partnership (the "")) of the Realty Partnership (such Units issued by the Realty Partnership to the Starwood Partners being hereinafter called the "") and Units (as defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership (as amended from time to time, the "")) of the Operating Partnership (such Units issued by the Operating Partnership to the Starwood Partners being hereinafter called the "") in exchange for either Paired Shares (as defined therein), cash or a combination of Paired Shares and cash, on the terms and conditions set forth therein;
Realty Partnership Agreement
Realty Units
Operating Partnership Agreement
Operating Units
     WHEREAS, the Corporation, the Trust and the Realty Partnership are parties to the Master Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into as of November 14, 2005, as amended on March 24, 2006 (the ""), by and among Host Marriott Corporation, Host Marriott, L.P. (""), Horizon Supernova Merger Sub, L.L.C., Horizon SLT Merger Sub, L.P., the Corporation, the Trust, Sheraton Holding Corporation and the Realty Partnership, pursuant to which agreement Host OP would acquire all of the outstanding stock of the Trust (and, indirectly, the interests in Realty Partnership) in a reverse subsidiary merger transaction, and the Trust and the Realty Partnership would thereafter become wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries of Host OP;
Master Agreement
Host OP
     WHEREAS, the Corporation and the Trust were parties to the Pairing Agreement dated June 25, 1980 between the Corporation and the Trust, as amended and restated pursuant to the Amended and Restated Intercompany Agreement, dated as of January 6, 1999 (the ""), between the Corporation and the Trust, pursuant to which each Class B share of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share, of the Trust (""), and each share of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation ("
Intercompany Agreement
Class B Shares
Corporation
 
"), were paired together as a unit such that Class B Shares are transferable only with an equal number of Corporation Shares and vice versa;
Shares
     WHEREAS, on April 7, 2006, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement, the Corporation and the Trust terminated the Intercompany Agreement, thereby de-pairing the Class B Shares from the Corporation Shares; and
     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Agreement to reflect the transactions and other matters described above and, pursuant to Sections 1(c) and 18 of the Agreement, the parties hereto may amend the Agreement without the consent of the other parties to the Agreement;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and conditions set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
     Section 1. .
Amendments
     (a) Sections 1 through and including 9 of the Agreement are hereby amended by deleting all such Sections in their entirety and adding in lieu thereof Sections 1 through and including 9 as set forth on hereto.
Schedule A
     (b) Section 10 of the Agreement is hereby amended by substituting the addresses for notices to the Corporation or the Operating Partnership with the following:
"Starwood Hotels & Resort Worldwide, Inc. 1111 Westchester Avenue White Plains, New York 10604 Attention: General Counsel Telecopy No. (914) 640-8310
with a copy to:
Sidley Austin One South Dearborn Street Chicago, Illinois 60603 Attention: Michael A. Gordon Telecopy No. (312) 853-7036"
LLP
     (c) Section 11 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Section in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof the following:
     "SECTION 11. . For purposes of this Agreement:
Definitions
     "" means any day other than Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banks are not open to do business in New York, New York.
Business Day
 
     "" shall mean, with respect to a particular date, the last reported sales price regular way on such date or, in case no such reported sale takes place on such date, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices regular way on such date, in either case on the New York Stock Exchange, or if the Corporation Shares are not then listed or admitted to trading on such Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Corporation Shares are then listed or admitted to trading or, if not then listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the closing sale price on such date of the Corporation Shares or, in case no reported sale takes place on such date then, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such date, on NASDAQ or any comparable system. If the Corporation Shares are not then quoted on NASDAQ or any comparable system, the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall in good faith determine the Corporation Share Closing Price.
Corporation Share Closing Price
     "" has the meaning set forth in the By-Laws of the Corporation, as amended from time to time.
Disinterested Members
     "" has the meaning set forth in the Restated Articles, as amended from time to time.
Ownership Limit
     "" means the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time after the date of this Agreement."
Restated Articles
     (d) Section 12 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Section in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof the following: "SECTION 12. . All interpretations of the terms of this Agreement shall be resolved on behalf of the Corporation by its Disinterested Members."
Determinations and Interpretation
     (e) Section 14 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the words "the Trust" and "the Realty Partnership" in the second sentence of such Section.
     (f) Section 18 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the words "each of the Trust and" immediately prior to the words "the Corporation" in the second sentence of such Section.
     (g) Section 20 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Section in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof the following: "SECTION 20. ."
Reserved
     (h)  to the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Exhibit in its entirety and adding in lieu thereof a new as set forth on hereto.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
Schedule B
     Section 2. . Except as expressly set forth in this Amendment, all of the terms and provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, and the parties hereto make no other amendment, alteration or modification of the Agreement nor do they, nor does any of them, by executing this Amendment, waive any provision of the Agreement or any right that they or it may have thereunder.
No Other Amendment or Waiver
     Section 3. . Except to the extent that Maryland law is mandatorily applicable to the rights and obligations of the stockholders of the Corporation, this Amendment, and the application or interpretation thereof, shall be governed exclusively by its
Governing Law
 
terms and by the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws as applied in the State of New York or any other jurisdiction which, if applied, would result in the application of any laws other than the internal laws of the State of New York.
     Section 4. . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be considered an original counterpart, and shall become a binding agreement when the Trust, the Corporation, the Realty Partnership, the Operating Partnership shall have each executed a counterpart of this Amendment.
Execution in Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the parties hereto or by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date first above written.
 
     SECTION 1. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, each holder of Operating Units shall have the right to tender to the Corporation outstanding Operating Units.
Right to Tender Operating Units
          (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no Corporation Shares or cash shall be issued or paid in respect of any tender of Operating Units (i) if, with respect to all Starwood Partners other than Prudential Property Investment Separate Account II, the tender pursuant to Section 1(a) is prior to the first anniversary of the date of this Agreement, (ii) prior to the expiration or termination of the waiting period applicable to such exchange and issuance, if any, under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as it may be amended from time to time, or (iii) prior to the receipt of all governmental and regulatory approvals which are required to be obtained prior to such tender and issuance or payment.
          (c) The rights to exchange Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement constitute a continuous offer and may not be withdrawn, amended or modified by the Corporation without the prior written consent of each holder of outstanding Operating Units adversely affected by such withdrawal, amendment or modification; that any withdrawal, amendment or modification that does not adversely affect any holder of outstanding Operating Units may be effected without the consent of such holder.
provided
     SECTION 2. . (a) Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the Corporation shall accept Operating Units validly tendered in proper form and meeting all of the requirements of this Agreement. In order for Operating Units to be validly tendered pursuant to this Agreement, the registered holder thereof shall deliver to the Corporation, at the address provided pursuant to Section 10, a completed and duly executed Letter of Transmittal in the form attached hereto as (the "") and any other documents required by the Letter of Transmittal. The Corporation shall make all determinations as to the validity and form of any tender of Operating Units in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and upon rejection of a tender shall give the tendering holder written notice of such rejection, which shall include the reasons therefor.
Acceptance of Tender; Election of Method of Payment for Tendered Operating Units
Exhibit A
Letter of Transmittal
          (b) Unless otherwise determined by the Corporation, tenders of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement shall be irrevocable and shall not be subject to withdrawal or modification; that if the Corporation makes the Share Election (as defined below) with respect to a tender, then within five days after such Election the tendering holder may elect to revoke such tender so long as (i) no public disclosure of such tender has been made prior to such revocation and (ii) such tendering holder reimburses the Corporation for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with such tender.
provided
          (c) Within fifteen days after the valid tender pursuant to this Agreement of Operating Units, the Corporation shall make an election to pay for such Operating Units by delivering either (i) Corporation Shares (the ""), (ii) cash (the "") or (iii) a combination of Corporation Shares and cash (the "").
Share Election
Cash Election
Combined Election
 
     SECTION 3. . (a) If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation makes the Share Election, then, except as provided in Section 2(b), within fifteen days after the expiration of the five-day period referred to in Section 2(b), the Corporation shall deliver to the tendering holder one Corporation Share for each Operating Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Share Election
          (b) No fractional Corporation Shares or scrip representing fractional Corporation Shares shall be issued upon exchange of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement. If more than one Letter of Transmittal shall be delivered at one time by the same holder, the number of full Corporation Shares which shall be issuable upon exchange of the Operating Units tendered thereby shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of Operating Units so tendered. Instead of any fractional Corporation Shares which would otherwise be issuable upon exchange of any Operating Units, the Corporation shall pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fraction in an amount equal to the same fraction of the Corporation Share Closing Price on the last Business Day preceding the date of exchange.
          (c) If a holder exchanges Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement, the Corporation shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on any issue of Corporation Shares upon such exchange. Such holder, however, shall (i) pay to the Corporation the amount of any additional documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax which is due (or shall establish to the satisfaction of the Corporation the payment thereof) as a result of Corporation Shares being issued in a name other than the name of such holder and (ii) be responsible for all income or other taxes as a result of such exchange.
     SECTION 4. . If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation makes or is deemed to have made the Cash Election, then within twenty days after such tender the Corporation shall pay to the tendering holder an aggregate amount of cash (the "") equal to the product of (i) the number of Corporation Shares which would have been delivered to such holder if the Corporation had made the Share Election with respect to such tender and (ii) the average Corporation Share Closing Price for the ten trading day period ending one day prior to the date of such tender.
Cash Election
Aggregate Cash Payment
     SECTION 5. . (a) If with respect to any tender of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement the Corporation shall make the Combined Election, then, except as provided in Section 2(b), within fifteen days after the expiration of the five-day period referred to in Section 2(b), the Corporation shall (i) notify the tendering holder of the number of such tendered Units which will be exchanged for cash (the "") and the number of such tendered Operating Units which will be exchanged for Corporation Shares (the ""), (ii) pay to the tendering holder, in respect of each Cash Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, an amount of cash equal to the average Corporation Share Closing Price for the ten trading day period ending one day prior to the date of such tender and (iii) deliver to the tendering holder one Corporation Share for each Corporation Share Unit validly tendered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Combined Election
Cash Units
Corporation Share Units
          (b) The provisions of Sections 3(b) and 3(c) of this Agreement shall apply to the issuance of Corporation Shares pursuant to Section 5(a).
 
     SECTION 6. . If at any time after six months from the date of this Agreement, (a) a Starwood Partner validly tenders Operating Units pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, (b) the Corporation make the Share Election or the Combined Election with respect to such tender, or (c) as a result of the Ownership Limit such Starwood Partner cannot receive the full number of Corporation Shares otherwise issuable to such Starwood Partner pursuant to such tender and such Election (without giving effect to the Ownership Limit) (the event described in clauses (a), (b) and (c) being referred to as a ""; the number of such Corporation Shares which such Starwood Partner cannot receive pursuant to such tender as a result of the Ownership Limit being referred to as the ""; and the Operating Units tendered in respect of such Unissued Corporation Shares being referred to as the ""), then subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, such Starwood Partner shall be entitled to receive the number of Corporation Shares which it can receive pursuant to such tender, such Election and the Ownership Limit.
Registration Rights
Corporation Share Tender Reduction
Unissued Corporation Shares
Delayed Payment Units
     SECTION 7. . Each tender of Operating Units shall constitute a representation and warranty by the tendering holder of each of the representations and warranties set forth in the form of Letter of Transmittal. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, unless, at the time of a tender for exchange of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement, a registration statement relating to any Corporation Shares to be delivered upon such tender is effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), such tender shall constitute a representation and warranty by the tendering holder to the Corporation that such tendering holder (i) is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501 under the Securities Act; (ii) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investing in entities similar to the Operating Partnership and the Corporation so as to be able to evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the Operating Partnership and the Corporation, and it is able financially to bear the risks thereof; (iii) has had an opportunity to discuss the business, management and financial affairs of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation with the management of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation; and (iv) understands that the Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act by reason of their issuance in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof or Rule 505 or 506 promulgated under the Securities Act and such Corporation Shares must be held indefinitely unless a subsequent disposition thereof is registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or is exempt from such registration.
Representations of Tendering Holder
Securities Act
     SECTION 8. . Until the holder of Operating Units tendered pursuant to this Agreement becomes a holder of record of the Corporation Shares issued in exchange therefor (in the case of a Share Election or a Combined Election) or until such holder has received cash in exchange therefor (in the case of a Cash Election or a Combined Election), such holder shall continue to hold and own such Operating Units for all purposes of the Operating Partnership Agreement. In the case of a Share Election or a Combined Election, no such holder shall have any rights as a stockholder of the Corporation in respect of such Corporation Shares until such holder becomes a holder of record of such Corporation Shares.
Status of Tendering Holder
     SECTION 9. . The Corporation shall reserve and shall at all times have reserved out of its authorized but unissued
Reservation of Shares; Closing of Transfer Books
 
Corporation Shares, solely for the purpose of effecting the exchange of Operating Units pursuant to this Agreement, enough Corporation Shares to permit the exchange of the then outstanding Operating Units. All Corporation Shares which may be issued upon exchange of Operating Units shall be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and free from all taxes, liens and charges with respect to the issuance thereof other than income taxes resulting from such exchange.
 
EXHIBIT A TO
UNITS EXCHANGE RIGHTS AGREEMENT
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     The undersigned hereby tenders to Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "") the above-described Operating Units (as defined in the Units Exchange Rights Agreement dated as of February 14, 1997, as amended (the "")) in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Units Exchange Rights Agreement and this Letter of Transmittal (which together constitute the ""), receipt of which is hereby acknowledged. All terms used herein but not defined herein are used as defined in the Units Exchange Rights Agreement.
Corporation
Units Exchange Rights Agreement
Offer
     Subject to, and effective upon the issuance of Corporation Shares and/or the payment of cash, as the case may be, for the Operating Units tendered hereby, the undersigned hereby assigns and transfers to the Corporation all right, title and interest in and to all the Operating Units that are being tendered hereby and irrevocably constitutes and appoints the Corporation (the ""), with full power of substitution (such power of attorney being deemed to be an irrevocable power coupled with an interest), to (i) transfer such Operating Units on the books of the Operating Partnership and (ii) receive all rights, privileges and benefits, and any and all obligations and liabilities appertaining thereto and otherwise exercise all rights of beneficial ownership of such Operating Units, all in accordance with the terms of the Offer.
Agent
     The undersigned hereby represents and warrants to the Corporation (i) that the undersigned has full power and authority to tender, sell, assign and transfer the tendered Operating Units and that upon payment therefor, the Corporation will acquire unencumbered title thereto, free and clear of all liens, restrictions, charges and encumbrances and the same will not be subject to any adverse claim, and (ii) that the tender complies with each and every provision of Section 1 of the Units Exchange Rights Agreement. The undersigned will, upon request, execute any additional documents deemed by the Corporation to be reasonably necessary or desirable to complete the sale, assignment and transfer of the tendered Operating Units.
     Unless a registration statement relating to any Corporation Shares to be delivered to the undersigned is effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), the undersigned hereby represents and warrants to the Corporation that the undersigned (A) is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501 under the Securities Act, or (B) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and in investing in entities similar to the Operating Partnership and the Corporation so as to be able to evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the Operating Partnership and the Corporation and it is able financially to bear the risks thereof, and in either case, (i) has had an opportunity to discuss the business, management and financial affairs of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation with the management of the Operating Partnership and the Corporation, and (ii) understands that any such Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act by reason of their issuance in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof or Rule 505 or 506 promulgated under the Securities Act, and any such Corporation Shares must be held indefinitely unless a subsequent disposition thereof is registered under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or is exempt from such
Securities Act
 
registration. If not sold pursuant to an effective registration statement, any such Corporation Shares will bear an appropriate legend indicating that such Corporation Shares have not been registered under the Securities Act and resale of such Corporation Shares is restricted under applicable securities laws.
     All authority conferred or agreed to be conferred in this Letter of Transmittal shall not be affected by, and shall survive, the death or incapacity of the undersigned, and any obligation of the undersigned hereunder shall be binding upon the successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives of the undersigned.
     The undersigned understands that, except as provided in Section 2(b) of the Units Exchange Rights Agreement, a tender of Operating Units pursuant to the Units Exchange Rights Agreement is irrevocable and constitutes a binding agreement between the undersigned and the Corporation upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Units Exchange Rights Agreement.
     Unless otherwise indicated under "Special Delivery Instructions", please mail any Corporation Shares issuable upon exchange of the Operating Units tendered hereby (or, if the Cash Election or the Combined Election is made, the cash payment payable pursuant thereto) to the address(es) of the registered holder(s) appearing under "Description of Units." In the event that the Special Delivery Instructions are completed, please issue the Corporation Shares (or, if the Cash Election or the Combined Election is made, the cash payment payable pursuant thereto) in the name of the registered holder(s) and transmit the same to the person or persons so indicated.
     The Corporation and the undersigned agree that they will cooperate with each other and will make, execute, acknowledge, deliver, record and file, or cause to be made, executed, acknowledged, delivered, recorded and filed, at such times and places as the other may reasonably deem necessary, all other and further documents and instruments, and will take all other and further actions, as the other may reasonably request from time to time in order to effectuate the purposes and provisions of the tender made pursuant to this Letter of Transmittal.
 
          To be completed ONLY if Corporation Shares or the cash payment are to be sent to someone other than the undersigned or to the undersigned at an address other than that above.
Mail certificate(s) for Corporation Shares or cash payment to:
(Must be signed by registered holder(s) as name(s) appear(s) on books and records of the Operating Partnership. If signature is by trustees, executors, administrators, guardians, attorneys-in-fact, officers of corporations or others acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, please set forth full title and see Instruction 4.)
 
     1. . No signature guarantee on this Letter of Transmittal is required unless the registered holder of the Operating Units has completed the box entitled "Special Delivery Instructions". In such case all signatures on this Letter of Transmittal must be guaranteed by a member firm of any registered national securities exchange in the United States or of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or by a commercial bank or trust company (not a savings bank or a savings and loan association) having an office, branch or agency in the United States.
Guarantee of Signature
     2. . This Letter of Transmittal is to be completed by the holder of Operating Units. A properly completed and duly executed Letter of Transmittal and any other documents required by this Letter of Transmittal must be received by the Agent.
Delivery of Letter of Transmittal
     No alternative, conditional or contingent tenders will be accepted, except as permitted pursuant to the Units Exchange Rights Agreement.
     3. . If the space provided herein is inadequate, the Operating Units tendered and/or other information required should be listed on a separate schedule attached hereto.
Inadequate Space
     4. . The signature must correspond with the name as shown on the books and records of the Operating Partnership without any change whatsoever.
Signatures on Letter Of Transmittal
     If any of the Operating Units tendered hereby are owned of record by two or more joint owners, all such owners must sign the Letter of Transmittal.
     If any tendered Operating Units are registered in different names, it will be necessary to complete, sign and submit as many separate Letters of Transmittal as there are different registrations.
     If this Letter of Transmittal is signed by trustees, executors, administrators, guardians, attorneys-in-fact, officers of corporations or others acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, each person should so indicate when signing, and proper evidence satisfactory to the Agent of their authority so to act must be submitted.
     5. . If a certificate for Corporation Shares or the cash payment is to be sent to someone other than the signer of this Letter of Transmittal or to an address other than that shown above, the appropriate boxes on this Letter of Transmittal should be completed.
Special Delivery Instructions
     6. . The Corporation reserves the right to waive in its sole discretion any of the specified conditions of the Offer in the case of the Operating Units
Waiver of Conditions
 
tendered; that any such waiver shall not adversely affect any holder of outstanding Operating Units without the consent of such holder.
provided
     7. . Under the Federal income tax law, a person surrendering Operating Units must provide the Agent with his correct taxpayer identification number ("") on Substitute Form W-9 below unless an exemption applies. If the correct TIN is not provided, a $50 penalty may be imposed by the Internal Revenue Service and payments made in exchange for the surrendered Operating Units may be subject to back-up withholding of that rate provided by the Federal income tax law (such rate being at the date of the last amendment of the Units Exchange Rights Agreement, 28%).
Back-Up Withholding
TIN
     The TIN that must be provided is that of the registered holder of the Operating Units. The TIN for an individual is his social security number.
     8. . Questions and requests for assistance or additional copies of the Units Exchange Rights Agreement and the Letter of Transmittal may be directed to the Agent at the address set forth above.
Requests for Assistance or Additional Copies
 
     Under Federal income tax laws, a holder whose tendered Operating Units are accepted for payment is required by law to provide the Agent (as payer) with his correct taxpayer identification number on Substitute Form W-9 below. If such holder is an individual, the taxpayer identification number is his social security number. If the Agent is not provided with the correct taxpayer identification number, the holder may be subject to a $50 penalty imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, payments that are made to such holder with respect to Operating Units purchased pursuant to the Offer may be subject to back-up withholding.
     If back-up withholding applies, the Agent is required to withhold, at that rate provided by the Federal income tax law (such rate being at the date of the last amendment of the Units Exchange Rights Agreement 28%), of any such payments made to the holder of Operating Units. Corporation Shares otherwise deliverable hereunder may, at the expense (and with all risk of loss for the account) of the undersigned, be sold to pay such amounts. Back-up withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the tax liability of persons subject to back-up withholding will be reduced by the amount of tax withheld. If withholding results in an overpayment of taxes, a refund may be obtained.
PURPOSE OF SUBSTITUTE FORM W-9
     To prevent back-up withholding on payments that are made to a holder of Operating Units purchased pursuant to the Offer, the holder is required to notify the Agent of his correct taxpayer identification number by completing the form below certifying that the taxpayer identification number provided on Substitute Form W-9 is correct.
WHAT NUMBER TO GIVE THE AGENT
     The holder is required to give the Agent the social security number or employer identification number of the record owner of the Operating Units.
 
PAYER'S NAME: Starwood Hotels & Resort Worldwide, Inc.

 
Exhibit 99.1
          WHEREAS, the Company maintains for the benefit of certain employees the Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Savings and Retirement Plan (the "Starwood Plan");
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16.1 of the Starwood Plan, the Company may amend the Starwood Plan;
          WHEREAS, certain other entities that are not affiliated with the Company have adopted separate "mirror" plans of the Starwood Plan (each such other entity, an "Adopting Nonaffiliate" and each such other plan, a "Nonaffiliate Plan") for the benefit of their respective employees;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16.1 of each Nonaffiliate Plan, the Adopting Nonaffiliate may amend the applicable Nonaffiliate Plan;
          WHEREAS, each Adopting Nonaffiliate has appointed the Company as its agent under the respective Nonaffiliate Plan to exercise on its behalf all the powers and authority conferred upon the Adopting Nonaffiliate under the applicable Nonaffiliate Plan, including, but not limited to, its power to amend the Nonaffiliate Plan;
          WHEREAS, the Company has delegated to the Employee Benefits Committee its authority with respect to the Starwood Plan and each Nonaffiliate Plan (collectively, the "Plan"), including the authority to amend the Plan, except as such action results in increased liabilities or annual costs to the Company in excess of $5 million;
          WHEREAS, the Employee Benefits Committee has delegated to each of the individuals holding the positions of the Executive Vice President of Human Resources of the Company and the Senior Vice President  Global Compensation and Benefits of the Company the authority to do or cause to be done all certain actions, including, but not limited to, the authority to amend the Plan; and
 
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority duly delegated by the Employee Benefits Committee, the Senior Vice President  Global Compensation and Benefits desires to amend the Plan in certain respects as reflected on the attached Amendment Number One.
          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that that the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number One to the Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Savings and Retirement Plan" hereby is adopted in its entirety with respect to the Plan.
 
          WHEREAS, the Company maintains for the benefit of certain employees the Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Savings and Retirement Plan (the "Starwood Plan");
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16.1 of the Starwood Plan, the Company may amend the Starwood Plan;
          WHEREAS, certain other entities that are not affiliated with the Company have adopted separate "mirror" plans of the Starwood Plan (each such other entity, an "Adopting Nonaffiliate" and each such other plan, a "Nonaffiliate Plan") for the benefit of their respective employees;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 16.1 of each Nonaffiliate Plan, the Adopting Nonaffiliate may amend the applicable Nonaffiliate Plan;
          WHEREAS, each Adopting Nonaffiliate has appointed the Company as its agent under the respective Nonaffiliate Plan to exercise on its behalf all the powers and authority conferred upon the Adopting Nonaffiliate under the applicable Nonaffiliate Plan, including, but not limited to, its power to amend the Nonaffiliate Plan;
          WHEREAS, the Company has delegated to the Employee Benefits Committee its authority with respect to the Starwood Plan and each Nonaffiliate Plan (collectively, the "Plan"), including the authority to amend the Plan, except as such action results in increased liabilities or annual costs to the Company in excess of $5 million;
          WHEREAS, the Employee Benefits Committee has delegated to each of the individuals holding the positions of the Executive Vice President of Human Resources of the Company and the Senior Vice President  Global Compensation and Benefits of the Company the authority to do or cause to be done all certain actions, including, but not limited to, the authority to amend the Plan; and
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority duly delegated by the Employee Benefits Committee, the Senior Vice President  Global Compensation and Benefits desires to amend the Plan in certain respects.
          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, effective as of April 8, 2006, Section 2(8) of the Plan hereby is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
          (8) . Shares of common stock of the Company.
Company Stock

 
Exhibit 99.2/99.3
     WHEREAS, the Company has established and maintains for the benefit of certain directors, officers, executives and employees the 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2004 LTIP"), the 2002 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2002 LTIP"), the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1999 LTIP") and the 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "1995 LTIP") (collectively, the "Company LTIPs");
     WHEREAS, the Company has assumed all of the rights and obligations of Starwood Hotels & Resorts with respect to outstanding awards under the Starwood Lodging Trust 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "1995 Trust LTIP");
     WHEREAS, the Company has established and maintains for the benefit of certain executives the 1999 Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives (the "1999 Executive AIP") and the Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives as amended and restated as of January 1, 2005 (the "2005 Executive AIP", collectively the "Executive AIPs");
     WHEREAS, the Committee is required to adjust awards granted under the Company LTIPs and the 1995 Trust LTIP in the event of the unpairing of common stock of the Company from Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts (the "unpairing") pursuant to Section 4.3 of the 2004 LTIP, Section 4.3 of the 2002 LTIP, Sections 4.2 and 16.2 of the 1999 LTIP and Sections 7.7 and 7.12 of the 1995 LTIP and the 1995 Trust LTIP, and the Committee desires to make such adjustments equitably to preserve the value of such awards;
     WHEREAS, the Committee has the authority to amend the 2004 LTIP pursuant to Section 14.1 of the 2004 LTIP and to make certain other adjustments pursuant to Section 4.3 of the 2004 LTIP, and the Committee desires to exercise such authority to reflect the unpairing with respect to future awards;
 
     WHEREAS, the Committee is required, pursuant to Section 5.7 of the Executive AIPs, to adjust units deemed to be held in participants' deferred unit accounts in the event of the unpairing, and the Committee desires to make such adjustments equitably to preserve the value of such units; and
     WHEREAS, the Committee has the authority to amend the 2005 Executive AIP pursuant to Section 6 of the 2005 Executive AIP, and the Committee desires to exercise such authority to reflect the unpairing.
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, each option that is outstanding immediately prior to the unpairing (a "pre-conversion option") pursuant to the Company LTIPs and the 1995 Trust LTIP shall be converted into an option to acquire only shares of Company common stock (a "converted option"), with the number of shares of Company common stock subject to a converted option equal to the number of shares of Company common stock subject to the pre-conversion option multiplied by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     The exercise price of a converted option will be adjusted to equal the exercise price of the pre-conversion option multiplied by the following fraction:
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, each restricted stock unit award that is outstanding immediately prior to the unpairing (a "pre-conversion RSU") pursuant to the Company LTIPs and the 1995 Trust LTIP shall be converted into a restricted stock unit award with respect to only shares of Company common stock (a "converted RSU"), with the number of shares of Company common stock subject to a converted RSU equal to the number of shares of Company common stock subject to the pre-conversion RSU multiplied by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, each restricted stock award that is outstanding immediately prior to the unpairing (a "pre-conversion restricted stock
 
award") pursuant to the Company LTIPs and the 1995 Trust LTIP shall be converted into a restricted stock award with respect to only shares of Company common stock (a "converted restricted stock award"), with the number of shares of Company common stock subject to a converted restricted stock award equal to the number of shares of Company common stock subject to the pre-conversion restricted stock award multiplied by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the number of shares in the "General Award Pool" and the "Directors' Fee Pool" as provided in Section 4.1 of the 2004 LTIP shall be adjusted by multiplying each such number by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the maximum number of options, stock appreciation rights, shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance awards that may be granted to any one participant as provided in Section 4.2 of the 2004 LTIP shall be adjusted by multiplying each such number by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, each unit deemed to be held in a deferred unit account immediately prior to the unpairing (a "pre-conversion unit") pursuant to the Executive AIPs shall be converted into a unit with respect to only shares of Company common stock (a "converted unit"), with the number of shares of Company common stock subject to a converted unit equal to the number of shares of Company common stock subject to the pre-conversion unit multiplied by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
     Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
 
     
FURTHER RESOLVED, that, for purposes of this Action, the term "pre-unpairing price" shall mean the closing price for a unit as reported by the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the date on which the unpairing occurs, or if units are not traded on the NYSE on such date, the first date preceding the unpairing on which units are traded on the NYSE; and the term "post-unpairing price" shall mean the opening price for a share as reported by the NYSE for the first date on which Company common stock is traded on the NYSE following the date on which the unpairing occurs;
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number One to the Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan" is hereby adopted in its entirety; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number One to the Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives as amended and restated as of January 1, 2005" is adopted in its entirety.
 
     WHEREAS, the Company maintains for the benefit of certain directors, officers, executives and employees the 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2004 LTIP");
     WHEREAS, the Committee has the authority to amend the 2004 LTIP pursuant to Section 14.1 of the 2004 LTIP; and
     WHEREAS, the Committee desires to amend the 2004 LTIP to reflect the unpairing of common stock of the Company from Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts (the "unpairing").
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, effective as of the unpairing, the 2004 LTIP hereby is amended as follows:
     1. Section 2.31 of the 2004 LTIP hereby is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
     2.31 "Share" means one share of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company, as may be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.3 of the Plan.
     2. Section 4.3 of the 2004 LTIP hereby is amended by restating the entire portion of the first sentence thereof appearing before the first semicolon thereof to read as follows:
     If any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, reverse stock split, or stock dividend;

 
Exhibit 99.2/99.3
     WHEREAS, the Company has established and maintains for the benefit of certain directors, officers, executives and employees the 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2004 LTIP"), the 2002 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "2002 LTIP"), the 1999 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1999 LTIP") and the 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "1995 LTIP") (collectively, the "Company LTIPs");
     WHEREAS, the Company has assumed all of the rights and obligations of Starwood Hotels & Resorts with respect to outstanding awards under the Starwood Lodging Trust 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "1995 Trust LTIP");
     WHEREAS, the Company has established and maintains for the benefit of certain executives the 1999 Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives (the "1999 Executive AIP") and the Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives as amended and restated as of January 1, 2005 (the "2005 Executive AIP", collectively the "Executive AIPs");
     WHEREAS, the Committee is required to adjust awards granted under the Company LTIPs and the 1995 Trust LTIP in the event of the unpairing of common stock of the Company from Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts (the "unpairing") pursuant to Section 4.3 of the 2004 LTIP, Section 4.3 of the 2002 LTIP, Sections 4.2 and 16.2 of the 1999 LTIP and Sections 7.7 and 7.12 of the 1995 LTIP and the 1995 Trust LTIP, and the Committee desires to make such adjustments equitably to preserve the value of such awards;
     WHEREAS, the Committee has the authority to amend the 2004 LTIP pursuant to Section 14.1 of the 2004 LTIP and to make certain other adjustments pursuant to Section 4.3 of the 2004 LTIP, and the Committee desires to exercise such authority to reflect the unpairing with respect to future awards;
 
     WHEREAS, the Committee is required, pursuant to Section 5.7 of the Executive AIPs, to adjust units deemed to be held in participants' deferred unit accounts in the event of the unpairing, and the Committee desires to make such adjustments equitably to preserve the value of such units; and
     WHEREAS, the Committee has the authority to amend the 2005 Executive AIP pursuant to Section 6 of the 2005 Executive AIP, and the Committee desires to exercise such authority to reflect the unpairing.
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, each option that is outstanding immediately prior to the unpairing (a "pre-conversion option") pursuant to the Company LTIPs and the 1995 Trust LTIP shall be converted into an option to acquire only shares of Company common stock (a "converted option"), with the number of shares of Company common stock subject to a converted option equal to the number of shares of Company common stock subject to the pre-conversion option multiplied by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     The exercise price of a converted option will be adjusted to equal the exercise price of the pre-conversion option multiplied by the following fraction:
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, each restricted stock unit award that is outstanding immediately prior to the unpairing (a "pre-conversion RSU") pursuant to the Company LTIPs and the 1995 Trust LTIP shall be converted into a restricted stock unit award with respect to only shares of Company common stock (a "converted RSU"), with the number of shares of Company common stock subject to a converted RSU equal to the number of shares of Company common stock subject to the pre-conversion RSU multiplied by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, each restricted stock award that is outstanding immediately prior to the unpairing (a "pre-conversion restricted stock
 
award") pursuant to the Company LTIPs and the 1995 Trust LTIP shall be converted into a restricted stock award with respect to only shares of Company common stock (a "converted restricted stock award"), with the number of shares of Company common stock subject to a converted restricted stock award equal to the number of shares of Company common stock subject to the pre-conversion restricted stock award multiplied by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the number of shares in the "General Award Pool" and the "Directors' Fee Pool" as provided in Section 4.1 of the 2004 LTIP shall be adjusted by multiplying each such number by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the maximum number of options, stock appreciation rights, shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares and performance awards that may be granted to any one participant as provided in Section 4.2 of the 2004 LTIP shall be adjusted by multiplying each such number by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, each unit deemed to be held in a deferred unit account immediately prior to the unpairing (a "pre-conversion unit") pursuant to the Executive AIPs shall be converted into a unit with respect to only shares of Company common stock (a "converted unit"), with the number of shares of Company common stock subject to a converted unit equal to the number of shares of Company common stock subject to the pre-conversion unit multiplied by the following fraction:
Pre-unpairing price of a unit consisting of one Class B share of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts and one share of Company common stock
     Post-unpairing price of one share of Company common stock
 
     
FURTHER RESOLVED, that, for purposes of this Action, the term "pre-unpairing price" shall mean the closing price for a unit as reported by the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the date on which the unpairing occurs, or if units are not traded on the NYSE on such date, the first date preceding the unpairing on which units are traded on the NYSE; and the term "post-unpairing price" shall mean the opening price for a share as reported by the NYSE for the first date on which Company common stock is traded on the NYSE following the date on which the unpairing occurs;
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number One to the Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan" is hereby adopted in its entirety; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number One to the Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives as amended and restated as of January 1, 2005" is adopted in its entirety.
 
     WHEREAS, the Company maintains for the benefit of certain executives the Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives as amended and restated as of January 1, 2005 (the 2005 Executive AIP");
     WHEREAS, the Committee has the authority to amend the 2005 Executive AIP pursuant to Section 6 of the 2005 Executive AIP; and
     WHEREAS, the Committee desires to amend the 2005 Executive AIP to reflect the unpairing of common stock of the Company from Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts (the "unpairing").
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, effective as of the unpairing, the 2005 Executive AIP hereby is amended as follows:
     1. The definition of "unit" provided in Section 1 of the 2005 Executive AIP hereby is amended by deleting the phrase "and one Class B share of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share, of Starwood Hotels & Resorts" where it appears therein.
     2. Section 5.7 of the 2005 Executive AIP hereby is amended by restating the entire portion of the first sentence thereof appearing before the first semicolon thereof to read as follows:
     If any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, reverse stock split, or stock dividend;

 
Exhibit 99.4/99.5
     WHEREAS, the Company has established and maintains for the benefit of certain employees the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") and the Annual Incentive Plan amended as of November 3, 2005 (the "2005 AIP");
     WHEREAS, in the event of the unpairing of common stock of the Company from Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts (the "unpairing"), pursuant to Section 5.2 of the ESPP, the number of shares reserved for purchase under the ESPP may be adjusted and the Company desires that such adjustment be made;
     WHEREAS, Section 6.6 of the ESPP provides that the Board may amend the ESPP without the consent of stockholders or ESPP participants, subject to certain exceptions not here applicable, and the Board and a majority of the Board's independent directors have authorized an amendment to reflect the unpairing and to grant the Board authority to make adjustments pursuant to Section 5.2 of the ESPP; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to its authority under Section 4 of the 2005 AIP, the Company desires to amend the 2005 AIP to reflect the unpairing.
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the number of shares reserved for purchase under the ESPP as provided in Section 4.1 of the ESPP shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by the following fraction:
     
FURTHER RESOLVED, that, for purposes of this Action, the term "pre-unpairing price" shall mean the closing price for a unit as reported by the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the date on which the unpairing occurs, or if units are not traded on the NYSE on such date, the first date preceding the unpairing on which units are traded on the NYSE; and the term "post-unpairing price" shall mean the opening price for a share as reported by the NYSE for the first date on which Company common stock is traded on the NYSE following the date on which the unpairing occurs;
 
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number Two to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan" is hereby adopted in its entirety; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number One to the Annual Incentive Plan amended as of November 3, 2005" is hereby adopted in its entirety.
 
     WHEREAS, the Company maintains for the benefit of certain employees the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan");
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6.6 of the Plan, the Board has the authority to amend the Plan without the consent of stockholders or Plan participants, subject to certain exceptions not here applicable; and
     WHEREAS, the Board desires to amend the Plan to reflect the unpairing of common stock of the Company from Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts (the "unpairing") and to grant the Board authority to make adjustments pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Plan.
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, effective as of the unpairing, the Plan hereby is amended as follows:
By deleting the phrase "and the Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts, a Maryland real estate investment trust and subsidiary of the Company, that are attached to and trade together with the Company Common Stock" where it appears in Section 2.22 of the Plan.
By deleting the phrase "unpairing of the shares of common stock of the Company from the Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts" where it appears in Section 5.2 of the Plan.
By adding the phrase "the Board or" immediately preceding the phrase "the Administrator" where it appears in Section 5.2 of the Plan.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the foregoing Amendment to the Plan has been executed by the Company on this 10 day of April, 2006, to be effective as stated above.
th
ATTEST:

 
Exhibit 99.4/99.5
     WHEREAS, the Company has established and maintains for the benefit of certain employees the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") and the Annual Incentive Plan amended as of November 3, 2005 (the "2005 AIP");
     WHEREAS, in the event of the unpairing of common stock of the Company from Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts (the "unpairing"), pursuant to Section 5.2 of the ESPP, the number of shares reserved for purchase under the ESPP may be adjusted and the Company desires that such adjustment be made;
     WHEREAS, Section 6.6 of the ESPP provides that the Board may amend the ESPP without the consent of stockholders or ESPP participants, subject to certain exceptions not here applicable, and the Board and a majority of the Board's independent directors have authorized an amendment to reflect the unpairing and to grant the Board authority to make adjustments pursuant to Section 5.2 of the ESPP; and
     WHEREAS, pursuant to its authority under Section 4 of the 2005 AIP, the Company desires to amend the 2005 AIP to reflect the unpairing.
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the number of shares reserved for purchase under the ESPP as provided in Section 4.1 of the ESPP shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by the following fraction:
     
FURTHER RESOLVED, that, for purposes of this Action, the term "pre-unpairing price" shall mean the closing price for a unit as reported by the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the date on which the unpairing occurs, or if units are not traded on the NYSE on such date, the first date preceding the unpairing on which units are traded on the NYSE; and the term "post-unpairing price" shall mean the opening price for a share as reported by the NYSE for the first date on which Company common stock is traded on the NYSE following the date on which the unpairing occurs;
 
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number Two to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan" is hereby adopted in its entirety; and
     FURTHER RESOLVED, that, effective upon the unpairing, the document attached hereto entitled "Amendment Number One to the Annual Incentive Plan amended as of November 3, 2005" is hereby adopted in its entirety.
 
     WHEREAS, the Company maintains for the benefit of certain employees the Annual Incentive Plan amended as of November 3, 2005 (the "Plan");
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan, the Company has the authority to amend the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, the Company desires to amend the Plan to reflect the unpairing of common stock of the Company from Class B shares of beneficial interest of Starwood Hotels & Resorts (the "unpairing").
     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, effective as of the unpairing, the Plan hereby is amended as follows:
By deleting the phrase "and one Class B share of beneficial interest, par value $.01 per share, of Starwood Hotels & Resorts" where it appears in the definition of "Unit" in Section 1 of the Plan.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the foregoing Amendment to the Plan has been executed by the Company on this 10th day of April, 2006, to be effective as stated above.
ATTEST:

 
EX 99.6
Contact: Alisa Rosenberg (914) 640-5214
WHITE PLAINS, NY  (BUSINESS WIRE)  April 10, 2006  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) ("") announced today that it has closed on a sale of 28 hotels  including hotels under the Sheraton, W, Westin, St. Regis and Luxury Collection brands  to Host Marriott Corporation (NYSE: HMT) (""). The hotels will remain in the Starwood system and continue to be managed by Starwood under long-term management agreements.
Starwood
Host
The total value of the transaction for the 35 hotels in the entire portfolio (including cash, stock, and the assumption of debt) is approximately $4.23 billion. Starwood shareholders have directly received $2.8 billion or 66% of the proceeds in the form of Host stock valued at $2.68 billion based on Host's $20.53 closing price on Friday, April 07, 2006, and $119 million in cash. Starwood has received approximately $738 million today, $600 million in cash, $77 million in the form of property level debt which Host has assumed and $61 million in Host stock. The remaining proceeds relate to seven hotels in Europe and Asia, where the closing has been deferred as a result of certain notice periods and consents that have not yet lapsed or been received. These proceeds will be received by Starwood in the form of $661 million in cash and $31 million in the form of property level debt which Host will assume when those sales are closed. As provided for in the merger agreement, Starwood previously elected to remove 3 Canadian hotels from the original portfolio and reduced the cash portion of the transaction by approximately $276 million, because Starwood was unable to receive a favorable tax ruling.
"We are very pleased that we have completed the sale of these hotels to Host at an attractive price and were able to return 66% of the proceeds directly back to our shareholders," said Steven J. Heyer, Starwood Chief Executive Officer. "We have entered into great, long-term management contracts on these hotels with an excellent partner. This transaction represents a major milestone as we evolve our business to balance asset ownership with our fee based business, while continuing to drive growth in our vacation ownership business. We have created a higher growth, more capital efficient and less cyclical business with tremendous balance sheet flexibility to fund growth and return additional value to our shareholders."
Portfolio of hotels
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with approximately 850 properties in more than 95 countries and 145,000 employees
 
at its owned and managed properties. Starwood(R) Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis(R), The Luxury Collection(R), Sheraton(R), Westin(R), Four Points(R) by Sheraton, W(R), Le Meridien(R) and the recently announced Aloft(SM). Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com.
**Please contact Starwood's new, toll-free media hotline at (866) 4-STAR-PR (866-478-2777) for photography or additional information.**
(Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations, including any statements as to whether or when the transaction with Host is expected to be consummated. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or events and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results and events will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.)

 
Exhibit 99.7
          On April 10, 2006, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") consummated the first phase of a transaction with Host Marriott Corporation ("Host") whereby Host will acquire 35 properties from Starwood in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $4.23 billion, including debt assumption and based on Host's stock price on April 7, 2006 of $20.53. As part of the agreement Starwood will generally continue to manage the properties under their current brands for up to 40 years. In the first phase of the transaction, 28 hotels were sold to Host for consideration valued at $3.54 billion. The remaining seven hotels in Europe and Asia ("Deferred Assets") are expected to be sold in the second quarter of 2006 for approximately $661 million in cash and $31 million of debt assumption. In connection with the first phase of the transaction Starwood shareholders received $2.8 billion in the form of 0.6122 shares of Host common stock valued at $2.68 billion and $119 million in cash for each Class B share of Starwood Hotels and Resorts (the "Trust") they owned. Based on Host's closing price on Friday April 7, 2006, this consideration had a per-share value of $13.07. Starwood received approximately $738 million of the proceeds in the first phase, including $600 million in cash, $77 million in debt assumption and $61 million in Host stock and, as mentioned above, expects to receive the remaining proceeds of $692 million (including $31 million of debt assumption) when the remaining hotels are sold.
          The following unaudited pro forma financial statements have been prepared based upon the audited consolidated financial statements of Starwood for the year ended December 31, 2005 and based upon certain assumptions, as set forth in the notes to the unaudited pro forma financial statements, that Starwood believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The pro forma adjustments as presented are based on estimates and certain information that is currently available and may change as additional information becomes available, as estimates are refined or as additional events occur.
          The unaudited pro forma financial statements are for illustrative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would actually have been achieved had the transactions occurred on the dates indicated or which may be achieved in the future. In the opinion of Starwood management, all material adjustments necessary to reflect the effects of the transactions that can be factually supported within the SEC regulations covering the preparation of unaudited pro forma financial statements have been made.
          The unaudited pro forma financial statements should be read in conjunction with the separate historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Starwood which were filed with the SEC on Form 10-K on March 14, 2006.
 
 
 
 


