FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20060731170110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 25, 2006, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Corporation") and Matthew A. Ouimet reached an agreement (the "Agreement") pursuant to which Mr. Ouimet will serve as President, Hotel Group of the Corporation. Certain information relating to Mr. Ouimet is set forth in Item 5.02 below. The Agreement has an initial term through March 1, 2010, with automatic one year renewals commencing on such date, unless either party provides the other with at least six months prior written notice that the term shall not be extended. Under the agreement, Mr. Ouimets annual base salary is $700,000 and he will be eligible to receive a target bonus of 100% of base salary. For 2006, Mr. Ouimet will be eligible to receive the full target bonus. The Agreement provides for the granting of the following equity awards: (1) on or about August 1, 2006 (ie, the commencement of his employment with the Corporation), restricted stock units having a fair market value of $705,000, (2) on or about A ugust 1, 2006, equity awards having a annualized value of $2,500,000 (pro rated for the year), comprised of 50% in value in restricted stock units and 50% in value in options, and (3) for the annual grant in 2007, equity awards having a value of $2,500,000, comprised of restricted stock units and/or options in the same proportion of grants made to other senior executives of the Corporation. The restricted stock units awarded will vest in full on the third anniversary of their award, provided that the units described in (1) above shall be subject to accelerated vesting if Mr. Ouimets employment in terminated by the Corporation without cause or by Mr. Ouimet for good reason. The exercise price for the options will be the fair market value of the Corporations common stock on the date of grant and the options shall become exercisable as to one fourth of the number of shares subject thereto on each anniversary of the date of grant. The Agreement provides that Mr. Ouimet is entitled to participate in certain benefit plans of the Corporation as well as to receive certain travel and other benefits in connection with his services to the Corporation. The Agreement also provides that Mr. Ouimet will relocate to the vicinity of the Corporations headquarters in New York/Connecticut by December 31, 2007 and that he will be entitled to up to $1,500,000 in reimbursement for travel to and from his California home for the first 12 months of his employment. The Corporation will also provide Mr. Ouimet with relocation benefits associated with the sale of his home in California. If Mr. Ouimet elects to defer the sale of his home for up to one year, the Corporation will reimburse Mr. Ouimet up to $100,000 if the appraised value of his home after the deferral is less than the initial appraised value of his home done as soon as practicable following the commencement of his employment. Mr. Ouimet will also be entitled to a tax gross up for these reimbursements. If Mr. Ouimets empl oyment is terminated by the Corporation other than for cause or by Mr. Ouimet for good reason during the first two years of employment, the Corporation shall pay Mr. Ouimet as a severance benefit base salary and target bonus through July 31, 2009 and provide welfare benefits for that term. If Mr. Ouimets employment is terminated by the Corporation other than for cause or by Mr. Ouimet for good reason after the first two years of employment, the Corporation shall pay Mr. Ouimet as a severance benefit (i) his base salary for 12 months, (ii) his target bonus for one year and (iii) 50% of his target bonus pro rated for the number of days elapsed in the calendar year to the date of termination. The offer letter to Mr. Ouimet is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Ouimet, 48, spent 17 years at The Walt Disney Company, most recently serving as President of the Disneyland Resort. Mr. Ouimet joined The Walt Disney Company in 1989 and began his career there in a variety of finance and business development roles. During his tenure with Disney, Mr. Ouimet served as Executive General Manager of Disney's Vacation Club; President of Disney's Cruise Line and, of course, most recently President of the Disneyland Resort, where he oversaw two theme parks and three hotels with 20,000 employees.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 25, 2006, the Corporation announced the appointment of Matthew A. Ouimet, as President, Hotel Group. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
10.1 Offer Letter from the Corporation to Matthew A. Ouimet. 99.1 Press release dated July 25, 2006.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

PERSONAL & CONFIDENTIAL
July 20, 2006
Matthew A. Ouimet PO Box 3232 Anaheim, California 92803
Dear Matt,
I am delighted to confirm our invitation for you to join Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. We recognize that a successful company is the reflection of a talented workforce and high performing organization and we look forward to your leadership at Starwood. The Board and I have great confidence that you are more than up to the challenge of leading the Starwood Hotel Group despite the size and complexity of the task at hand. Personally, I look forward to a strong and enjoyable business partnership. I firmly believe that you have the professional experience, leadership and values to help realize the enormous potential inherent in Starwood's brands, people and competitive position.
Please review the attached documents specifically outlining our offer of employment to and let me know if you have any questions concerning the terms. We are all enormously enthusiastic about you joining the company's senior leadership team.
Matt, I hope you are as excited as we all are about joining Starwood. Please acknowledge your acceptance of this offer by signing and returning all of the attached documents to me.
Sincerely,
Steven J. Heyer
REVISED
July 20, 2006
Matthew A. Ouimet PO Box 3232 Anaheim, California 92803
Dear Matt,
The specifics of your offer of employment with Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") are outlined below:
Subject to the terms of this letter, your employment with Starwood will begin on or about August 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date")
Start Date:
Your position will be President, Hotel Group, based in White Plains, NY, and you shall perform such duties and services as are assigned to you by the Company as requested. You acknowledge that your prospective employment will be subject to all policies and practices of the Company as may currently exist or as may be curtailed, modified or implemented from time to time. Further, you shall devote your full time and attention to the affairs of the Company and to your duties as President, Hotel Group. You will report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and be a core member of the senior leadership team of the Company which also includes the President, Global Development, Executive Vice President & Chief Marketing Officer, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer & General Counsel. Our regional division presidents (North America, EMEA, AP and LAD) will report directly to you.
Position:
Your base salary will be $700,000 annually, paid in semi-monthly intervals of $29,166.66 and subject to applicable withholdings for FICA, state and federal taxes. The Starwood salary program provides performance-based salary reviews for future salary progression.
Base Salary:
You will be eligible to participate in the Starwood Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) or, at the election of the board's compensation committee, the Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives (AIPCE). In either case, your target incentive is 100% of base salary. Your actual incentive payout will be based upon company performance, the performance of our owned and managed hotels worldwide, and your achieving specified performance criteria to be established and approved by the Chief Executive Officer. In the event that changes are made to any of the incentive plans, the changes will apply to you as they do other employees of the Company. Please note that the AIP and AIPCE provides that a portion of your annual bonus will be deferred and payable in Starwood stock or stock units. The current deferral portion of the bonus is 25% and is payable in Starwood stock having a value on the date of deferral equal to 133% of the amount deferred.
Annual Incentive (Bonus):
Payment of your 2006 bonus will be delivered according to the regular annual incentive plan payout schedule and your bonus will assume you were employed with Starwood for the full year. An annual bonus shall not be deemed earned by you until the Company has determined your entitlement to such bonus and only if you are employed by the Company at the time such bonus is payable in accordance with the AIP, AIPCE and Company practices. Subject to the provisions described under "Severance" below, the Company does not pay pro-rata bonuses upon departure.
: You will be eligible to participate in the Starwood Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan ("LTIP"). This plan currently provides for the award of stock options and/or restricted shares at the Company's discretion to high performing executives. For calendar year 2006, on or about the starting date of your employment with Starwood, you will receive equity awards having a value of $2,500,000 (which amount will be pro rated based on the remaining number of months in the calendar year), payable 50% in restricted stock and 50% in options, with the value of options determined in accordance with the Black Scholes model (with variables determined by the Company). Options will be exercisable at Fair Market Value (as defined in the LTIP) on the date of grant For calendar year 2007, on or about the same time as annual option and restricted stock grants are made to other senior executives (currently February of each year), you will receive equity awards having a value of $2,500,000, payable in the same proportions of restricted stock and options as other senior executives of the Company with the value of options determined by the method then used by the Company for determining grants to such other senior executives. The award agreements governing the terms of your equity grants will be on the same terms and conditions as other senior executives of the Company. For subsequent years, the value of awards, if any, will be based upon your performance and the metrics used for other senior executives of the Company.
Long Term Incentive
Effective on or about the starting date of your employment with Starwood, pursuant to the terms of the LTIP you will be granted that number of shares of restricted stock having a value equal to $705,000, based on the Fair Market Value (as defined in the LTIP) on the date of grant. The restricted shares will vest in accordance with the LTIP and will otherwise be governed by the provisions of the LTIP, provided that such shares will vest if your employment is terminated by the Company for any reason or if you terminate your employment for "good reason" (as defined below). For purposes of this paragraph only, "good reason" shall also include a material reduction below 50% of the percentage of value of equity awards granted to you under the LTIP in future years that consists of restricted stock.
Sign-on Equity:
Further details will be provided in the award notification to be delivered to you following the start of your employment.
Starwood offers "StarShare", a comprehensive array of employee benefit programs, to provide peace of mind on various personal concerns. New employees are eligible for the StarShare health and welfare benefit programs and the 401(k) plan on the first day of the month following 90 days of employment. You and your eligible dependents will be covered by these benefits as per your coverage elections.
Benefits:
Information on these plans and other benefit programs such as the HOT Rates (the employee discount room rates program), short-term disability, long-term disability, employee life insurance, and vacation programs will be provided to you after you begin your employment with us.
In the event that changes are made to any of the benefit plans, the changes will apply to you as they do other employees of the Company.
We realize that there may be a transitional benefits cost to you because of the waiting period before you become eligible for the Starwood health plans. Therefore, during your benefits waiting period, Starwood agrees to reimburse you for any COBRA payments until the date you become eligible for Starwood health benefits. Starwood will reimburse you the difference between the applicable normal contribution rate with Starwood and your COBRA amount.
COBRA Payments:
While your office will be in White Plains, we realize that you currently reside in California. We understand that you plan to commute from California to White Plains until some time after the conclusion of the 2006/2007 school year. You agree to relocate to the New York/Connecticut area no later than December 31, 2007. In order to make it as convenient and un-burdensome as possible to perform your duties in White Plains and other parts of the world as your job requires until your relocation to the New York/Connecticut area, the Company will (i) reimburse up to $1,500,000 of your air travel expenses during the first twelve months of your employment which may include commercial air or chartered flights (regular commercial flights on Company business (including spousal or family travel required as part of Company business) will not be counted in determining the $1,500,000 cap) and (ii) provide you with suitable temporary housing in the New York/Connecticut area. You agree that you will use good faith efforts in planning your travel to minimize such air travel expenses consistent with your duties and responsibilities as President Hotel Group. Arrangements for non-commercial flights will be done in coordination with a company specializing in private aircraft services (such as Citation Shares or Net Jets) and will be done in a way to permit as much flexibility as is reasonably possible. The Company will indemnify you for any income tax liability for the air travel expense reimbursement, temporary housing and other relocation benefits provided pursuant to this letter and the Relocation Program discussed below.
Other Benefits:
The Company will reimburse you for up to $10,000 for review of your employment contract with us.
Starwood has selected Cendant Mobility Services to administer our Relocation Program. Starwood will pay the reasonable, out-of-pocket costs of relocating your family and household furnishings to New York/Connecticut and to a new location in California in accordance with the provisions of Starwood's Relocation Program. This Program includes reimbursement of a set number of personal, spousal and family trips for house hunting purposes (additional trips may be funded in your discretion by your $1,500,000 air travel allowance). To be eligible for reimbursement of certain benefits, you are required to utilize the services of an agent in the Cendant Mobility Preferred Network on both departure and destination. You will be eligible to participate in this program until December 31, 2007.
Relocation:
A home buy-out option will be afforded you as you make this transition. Cendant will arrange for two appraisals of your home to be conducted as soon as practicable after your acceptance of our offer. If those appraisals are more than 5% apart, a third appraisal will be ordered. The appraisals will then be averaged and you will be offered (the "Initial Offer") that amount for your home. Once the offer is made, you will have 60 days to (i) accept it or (ii) defer the sale of your home until any time prior to September 30, 2007 (the "Deferral Period"). At the conclusion of the Deferral Period, Cendant will again arrange for the appraisal of your home and 60 day purchase offer in accordance with the foregoing provisions. We will guarantee the purchase price of your home. You will not be required to market your home in advance of initiating this buyout option. In addition if the purchase price offered to you at the conclusion of the Deferral Period is less than the Initial Offer, the Company will reimburse you for up to $100,000 of such deficiency.
To initiate the moving process, please contact the White Plains Human Resources office. You will be assigned to a Client Services Consultant at Cendant Mobility who will provide you with relocation assistance and the names of the Preferred Network agents. In an effort to fully utilize our relocation benefit and avoid additional tax liability, we ask that you do not begin your relocation process before being contacted by your assigned Cendant Client Services Consultant. Please do not sign a Listing Agreement or begin searching for a new home until you have spoken with your Consultant. For questions regarding policy benefits or to register a real estate agent with Cendant, please call 1-800-423-8624.
In the event that you accept this offer of employment and relocation expenses are paid to you or on your behalf, you agree that if you voluntarily terminate your employment within one year after you relocate, you will repay all such relocation expenses, reduced by 1/12 for each full calendar month actually worked. In addition, eligibility for reimbursement of any and all relocation expenses will cease on the last day of employment and any relocation expenses incurred after that date will not be reimbursed by Starwood and will be your responsibility.
Any and all disputes relating to this offer letter, your employment with Starwood or the termination of that employment will be resolved solely and exclusively through binding arbitration pursuant to the employment rules of the American Arbitration Association. Accordingly, you acknowledge and agree that this offer of employment and the benefits provided herein are contingent upon your execution of the Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate provided to you herewith and incorporated herein by reference.
Exclusive Dispute Resolution Procedure:
(Attachment A)
Unless sooner terminated or extended pursuant to other provisions hereof, the term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall end on the March 1 2010; provided that the term of this Agreement shall be extended automatically for an additional year as of the end of the initial term and each additional one year term, unless no later than six months prior to any such renewal date either the Company, or Executive gives written notice to the other that the term of this Agreement shall not be so extended.
Employment Term:
For the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending with the two year anniversary of the Effective Date, in the event you are teminated without cause or resign for good reason, you will be entitled to salary, target bonus and benefit coverage for the balance of the initial term of employment less seven (7) months. After the initial two year period you will revert to the severance benefits described below. In no circumstance would your severance be less than the severance described below if you are terminated without cause or resign for good reason.
Severance:
In the event that Starwood terminates your employment for any reason other than "cause" or you resign for "good reason", Starwood will pay to you (i) 12 months of your then current base salary, (ii) your target bonus for the year of termination and (iii) 50% of your target bonus for the year of termination pro rated based on the portion of the year elapsed on the date of termination, all in a lump sum less all applicable withholdings and will provide benefit coverage for a one year period from the date of termination (the "Termination Payments"). You will not be entitled to any Termination Payments if you resign your employment with the Company without good reason. As a condition for, and prior to, your entitlement to and receipt of any Termination Payments, you must enter into a written waiver and release of any and all claims against Starwood arising out of or relating to your employment with Starwood, in such form that Starwood may reasonably require. In the event you allege a breach of "good reason" the company will have 30 days to cure the alleged breach.
For purposes of this letter, "cause," shall mean (i) any material breach by you of any of the duties, responsibilities or obligations of your employment, or any of the written policies of Starwood; (ii) any willful failure or refusal by you to properly perform (as determined by Starwood in its reasonable discretion and judgment) the duties, responsibilities or obligations of your employment, or to properly perform or follow (as determined by Starwood in its reasonable discretion and judgment) any lawful order or direction by Starwood; (iii) any acts or omissions by you that constitute (as determined by Starwood in its reasonable discretion and judgment) fraud, dishonesty, breach of your duty of loyalty, gross negligence, civil or criminal illegality, or any other material misconduct in your employment or which could tend to bring Starwood into disrepute, could create civil or criminal liability for Starwood or could adversely affect Starwood's business or interests. "Good reason" shall mean a significant reduction in your responsibilities or authority as President Hotel Group, a change in your reporting relationship to a person who is not the senior most executive officer of the Company or a reduction in base compensation.
You acknowledge that you are not subject to any currently effective employment contract, or any other contractual or other binding obligations pursuant to which your employment or employment activities with or on behalf of the Company may be subject to any restrictions. Restrictions include limitation, any agreements or other obligations or documents relating to non-competition, confidentiality, trade secrets, proprietary information or works for hire.
Other Conditions and Obligations:
As a further condition of this offer and your right to receive any of the benefits detailed herein, you agree to execute and be bound by the Non-compete, Non-solicitation, Confidentiality and Intellectual Property Agreement attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
(Attachment B)
This offer letter represents the sole and complete understanding between you and the Company relating to your employment and there are no other written or oral agreements, understandings or representations relating to this offer of employment. The terms of your employment, including the at-will nature of the employment, may be amended only through a written instrument signed by you and Starwood's Chief Administrative Officer.
Integrated Agreement:
You should not resign from your current employment until you have received notification from the Company of the completion of all pre-employment investigation, testing and verification.
By signing and returning this letter, you confirm that this letter accurately sets forth the current understanding between you and Starwood and that you accept and agree to the terms as outlined.
Very truly yours,
Kenneth S. Siegel Chief Administrative Officer

Media Contact:
K.C. Kavanagh
(914) 640-8339
WHITE PLAINS, NY  July 25, 2006  Steven J. Heyer, Chief Executive Officer for Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE:HOT), announced today that the Company has named Matt Ouimet as President, Hotel Group. Ouimet, 47, spent 17 years at The Walt Disney Company, most recently serving as President of the Disneyland Resort. In this newly created position, Ouimet will oversee hotel operations worldwide for the Company's nine hotel brands consisting of more than 850 hotels in 95 countries. Reporting to Heyer, Ouimet will also be a member of Starwood's Senior Leadership Team.
"Starwood is firing on all cylinders after having dramatically reshaped our company, and as we move to the next stage of our transformation, we looked for an executive with the depth in leadership that Matt can provide," said Heyer. "With his background in resort development, marketing and operations, Matt can work across many different disciplines to help us efficiently and effectively execute upon our strategy."
Heyer continued, "As our industry-leading results would suggest, our divisional operators are doing a phenomenal job and our leadership team is very strong. Matt bolsters our global team and strengthens our bench. This new structure streamlines our decision making process and speed of execution, enabling me to focus on what's next, and our external network including shareholders, owners, developers, suppliers, and partners."
"I am excited to be part of this team which has its sights set on nothing less than reinventing the industry," said Ouimet. "With its commitment to innovation, new product development, service excellence and an aggressive global growth strategy, there is no question that Starwood is the company to watch in this sector."
Starwood's four Divisional Presidents overseeing hotel operations in North American; Latin America; Asia-Pacific; and Europe, Africa and the Middle East respectively will report to Ouimet, who will be based in Starwood's headquarters in White Plains, New York.
Ouimet joined The Walt Disney Company in 1989 and began his career there in a variety of finance and business development roles. Rising quickly in the ranks, Ouimet ultimately led four separate business endeavors for Disney. During his tenure with Disney, Ouimet served as Executive General Manager of Disney's Vacation Club; President of Disney's Cruise Line and, of course, most recently President of the Disneyland Resort, where he oversaw two theme parks and three hotels with 20,000 employees. Ouimet earned a Bachelor of Science majoring in accounting from State University of New York at Binghamton.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with approximately 850 properties in more than 95 countries and 145,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, W, Le Mridien and the recently announced aloft. Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit .
SM
www.starwoodhotels.com
(Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or events and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results and events will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.)


