FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20070402080004.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective as of March 31, 2007, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Company") and Steven J. Heyer entered into an Agreement and General Release (the "Agreement"), pursuant to which Mr. Heyer resigned his positions as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and as a member of its Board of Directors, effective March 31, 2007. Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company and Mr. Heyer acknowledged that the Company has paid Mr. Heyer $250,000, which is one quarter of his base salary at the rate of $1,000,000 per annum, less applicable withholding of taxes, for the first quarter of 2007. Mr. Heyer will be paid cash incentive compensation for 2006 in the gross amount of $2,000,000, which represents his entire cash bonus for 2006 pursuant to his employment agreement, dated as of September 20, 2004, as amended on May 4, 2005 (which has been terminated pursuant to the Agreement). Mr. Heyer has received 65,236 restricted stock units that have previously vested prior to March 31, 2007 pursuant t o the Companys 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, and he has been credited with 8,723 deferred units that have previously vested prior to March 31, 2007 pursuant to the Companys Annual Incentive Plan for Certain Executives. Mr. Heyers rights and obligations with respect to such previously vested restricted stock units and deferred units will continue to be governed by such plans. However, all of Mr. Heyers stock options, unvested restricted stock units, unvested deferred bonus units and unpaid portions of his 2007 base salary will be forfeited. All amounts deferred by Mr. Heyer pursuant to the Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan will be distributed in accordance with such plan and the elections that Mr. Heyer previously made with respect thereto. Mr. Heyer agreed to release the Company, its affiliates and their directors, officers and employees from any claims that he may have against any of them. The Company agreed to relea se Mr. Heyer from any claims arising out of Mr. Heyers exercise of any restricted stock awards or stock option grants during his employment with the Company. Mr. Heyer agreed that until March 31, 2009, he will not (1) acquire any equity securities of the Company, offer to enter into any change of control of the Company, or propose or disclose any request for consent of any of the foregoing, (2) engage in any business that competes with the Company in any geographic area where the Company then conducts business, or (3) solicit any of the Companys employees or customers. The Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference. Also effective as of March 31, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Bruce W. Duncan, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, as the interim Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Duncan, 55, has been a private investor since January 2006. He was appointed Chairman of the Board of the Company in May 2005 and has served as a Director of the Company since April 1999. From May 2005 to December 2005, Mr. Duncan was Chief Executive Officer and Trustee of Equity Residential ("EQR"), the largest publicly traded apartment company in the United States. From January 2003 to May 2005, he was President, Chief Executive Officer and Trustee, and from April 2002 to December 2002, President and Trustee, of EQR. From April 2000 until March 2002, he was a private investor. From December 1995 until March 2000, Mr. Duncan served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Cadillac Fairview Corporation Limited, a real estate operating company.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
10.1 Agreement and General Release between Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. and Steven J. Heyer.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

This Agreement and General Release (hereinafter, the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of the 31st day of March, 2007 by and between Steven J. Heyer, a resident of Georgia (hereinafter, the "Executive"), and Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., a Maryland corporation (hereinafter, the "Company").
WHEREAS, Executive and the Company are parties to an agreement, dated September 20, 2004, (the "Employment Agreement"), as amended on May 4, 2005, which sets forth the terms and conditions of Executive's employment as an employee with the Company as Chief Executive Officer;
WHEREAS, Executive will resign immediately from all of his positions with the Company;
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive have agreed upon and desire to confirm the arrangements relating to Executive's resignation from the employ of the Company as well as his resignation from the Board of Directors of the Company and the parties wish to resolve and settle all claims between Executive and the Company in accordance with, and in consideration of the terms and provisions set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed, by and between the Company and Executive, for the good and sufficient consideration set forth below, as follows:
If intended for the Company: Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
Attn: Kenneth Siegel, Esq.
1111 Westchester Avenue
White Plains, New York 10604
kenneth.siegel@starwoodhotels.com
Both parties hereby irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which such party may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such dispute brought in such court or any defense of inconvenient forum for the maintenance of such dispute.
EXHIBIT A  PRESS RELEASE OF COMPANY
 The Board of Directors of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) announced today that Steven J. Heyer has resigned as Chief Executive Officer and a director. Heyer, 54, had been CEO and a director since October 2004. Bruce W. Duncan, 55, Starwood's Chairman since 2005 and a director since 1995, will also serve as interim CEO while the Board conducts a search for a permanent replacement.
White Plains, NY, April 2, 2007
Stephen R. Quazzo, Chairman of the Governance and Nominating Committee of the Starwood Board, said, "While the Board appreciates the good work Steve Heyer has done to position Starwood for the future, issues with regard to his management style have led us to lose confidence in his leadership. Starwood today is performing well and has a strong market position, a winning strategy, and significant growth potential. Given the Company's deep management team and Bruce Duncan's willingness to serve as interim CEO on a full-time basis as long as he is needed, the Board is confident Starwood's performance will not miss a beat."
Bruce Duncan said, "I know from serving as Chairman for the past two years and a Board member for more than a decade that Starwood is pursuing the right strategy. We are currently in the middle of a dynamic growth period, including expanding our footprint substantially around the globe. Starwood has a strong market position, important owner and developer relationships, an excellent management team, and talented employees. The Board is confident in Starwood's prospects and focused on continuing to build shareholder value. I will be based in White Plains and look forward to leading Starwood as we execute its successful continuing transformation from a cyclical real estate business into a leading global hotel operator and lifestyle company."
Steven Heyer said, "I was asked to lead the Company through a complex transition and at the same time create an exciting platform for future growth. I am proud of what we have accomplished in the last 2-1/2 years and believe Bruce Duncan and the team will continue to execute Starwood's strategy with distinction. Starwood is performing extremely well and I am confident it will enjoy continued success in the future."
The Board of Directors has retained Spencer Stuart to assist in its search for a permanent CEO and intends to thoroughly evaluate both internal and external candidates.
From 2002 through 2005, Bruce Duncan was President and CEO of Equity Residential, the largest publicly traded apartment REIT with revenues of $2.1 billion and an enterprise value of over $20 billion. From 1995 to 2000, he was Chairman, President and CEO of Cadillac Fairview Corporation where he led the post-bankruptcy turnaround of this major real estate company. Previously he spent 16 years at JMB, most recently as President and Co-CEO of JMB Institutional Realty Corporation. Duncan holds an MBA degree in Finance from the University of Chicago and an AB degree in Economics from Kenyon College.
The Company reaffirms its guidance for the full year and first quarter of 2007, which was provided in its 2006 earnings release on February 1, 2007. Starwood will announce its first quarter 2007 financial results on April 26, 2007.
Outlook
Starwood will conduct a conference call and webcast for the investment community today at 9:00 a.m. ET to discuss today's announcement. To participate, please dial (866) 710-0179 (within U.S.) or (334) 323-9872 (outside U.S.) 15 minutes prior to the start of the call and enter conference ID number 82311682. A playback of the conference call will be available through April 16, 2007. To access the playback, please dial (877) 656-8905 (within U.S.) or (334) 323-9859 (outside U.S.) and enter conference ID number 82311682.
Conference Call and Webcast
The conference call will be available through simultaneous webcast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at .
About Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with approximately 850 properties in more than 95 countries and 145,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, Sheraton, Westin, Four Points by Sheraton, W, Le Mridien and the recently announced AloftSM and ElementSM Hotels. Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit .
www.starwoodhotels.com/pressclub
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses, relationships with associates and labor unions, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions, and the introduction of new brand concepts and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future vacation ownership units indicated in this press release include planned units on land owned by the Company or by joint ventures in which the Company has an interest that have received all major governmental land use approvals for the development of vacation ownership resorts. There can be no assurance that such units will in fact be developed and, if developed, the time period of such development (which may be more than several years in the future). Some of the projects may require additional third-party approvals or permits for development and build out and may also be subject to legal challenges as well as a commitment of capital by the Company. The actual number of units to be constructed may be significantly lower than the number of future units indicated. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT: Jason Koval (914) 640-4429
MEDIA CONTACTS: K.C. Kavanagh (914) 640-8339
George Sard/Stephanie Pillersdorf Sard Verbinnen & Co (212) 687-8080


