FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20070426080051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2007, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood") announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 26, 2007, Starwood announced that its Board of Directors authorized up to an additional $1 billion in share repurchases. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 26, 2007
Table of Contents

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
April 26, 2007
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) today reported strong first quarter 2007 financial results.
WHITE PLAINS, NY, April 26, 2007
First Quarter 2007 Highlights
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2007 of $0.56 compared to $0.34 in the first quarter of 2006. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.48 for the first quarter of 2007 compared to $0.41 in the first quarter of 2006. Excluding special items, the effective income tax rate in the first quarter of 2007 was 35.7%.
Income from continuing operations was $123 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to $77 million in 2006. Excluding special items, which net to a $19 million benefit in 2007, income from continuing operations was $104 million for the first quarter of 2007 compared to $91 million in 2006.
Net income was $122 million and EPS was $0.56 in the first quarter of 2007 compared to net income of $5 million and EPS of $0.02 in the first quarter of 2006 (after a one-time expense of $72 million (after tax) related to the implementation of a new time-share accounting rule).
Bruce W. Duncan, CEO, said, "This quarter's excellent results underscore the strength of Starwood's brand strategy, operational capabilities, and owner relationships, as well as the talent and dedication of our management team and our 145,000 associates around the world. We remain focused on continuing to grow our managed and franchised business, and according to Smith Travel data, our pipeline continues to lead the upper upscale and luxury segments. Lodging business fundamentals remain sound and our vacation ownership platform is well-positioned for future growth. Starwood is a well balanced, globally diversified company that should continue to create shareholder value for many years to come."
Operating Results
First Quarter Ended March 31, 2007
Management and Franchise Revenues
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 10.2% compared to the first quarter of 2006 including 17.9% in Africa & the Middle East, 17.6% in Europe, 15.9% in Asia Pacific, 6.1% in North America and 5.9% in Latin America. Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels by brand was: Le Mridien 21.1%, St. Regis/Luxury Collection 10.6%, Sheraton 9.5%, W Hotels 8.3%, Westin 8.1%, and Four Points 7.2%.
Management fees, franchise fees and other income were $192 million, up $60 million, or 45.5%, from the first quarter of 2006. Management fees grew 35.8% to $91 million and franchise fees grew 32.0% to $33 million. The increase in fees are related to the addition
 
of new hotels (including hotels sold to third parties, including Host), and growth in REVPAR of existing hotels under management, offset in part by fees associated with hotels that left the system.
The hotels sold to Host contributed $26 million of management revenues during the first quarter of 2007. Excluding the hotels sold to Host, management and franchise revenues increased 18.6% in the first quarter of 2007 when compared to 2006. Other income increased approximately $15 million and included $18.3 million earned from the sale of the Westin Boston Waterfront Hotel.
During the first quarter of 2007, the Company signed 65 hotel management and franchise contracts (representing approximately 18,100 rooms: 20 alofts, 15 Sheratons, 8 Elements, 6 Four Points by Sheraton, 6 Westins, 6 W Hotels, 3 St. Regis hotels and 1 Luxury Collection hotel). Of the hotels signed in the quarter, 57 were new builds and 8 were conversions from other brands. At March 31, 2007 the Company had approximately 420 hotels in the active pipeline representing over 100,000 rooms, driven by strong interest in all Starwood brands.
During the first quarter of 2007, 11 new hotels and resorts (representing approximately 3,400 rooms) entered the system, including the Sheraton Baltimore City Center Hotel (Baltimore, Maryland, 707 rooms), The Westin Chicago Northwest (Itasca, Illinois, 408 rooms) and the Sheraton Changsha Hotel (Changsha, China, 385 rooms). Thirteen properties (representing approximately 3,500 rooms) were removed from the system during the quarter. The Company expects to open more than 80 hotels (representing approximately 20,000 rooms) in 2007 and is targeting signing approximately 200 hotel management and franchise contracts in 2007.
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels
Worldwide REVPAR for Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels increased 9.3%. REVPAR at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 8.0%. REVPAR growth was particularly strong at the Company's owned hotels in Toronto, Kauai, Philadelphia, and San Francisco. Internationally, Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 6.5% excluding the impact of foreign exchange, and as reported, in US dollars, branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 11.8%.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 8.4% while costs and expenses increased 6.9% when compared to 2006. Margins at these hotels increased 103 basis points.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels Worldwide increased 8.7% while costs and expenses increased 6.9% when compared to 2006. Margins at these hotels increased 130 basis points.
Revenues at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $559 million when compared to $822 million in 2006. Revenues and operating income were impacted by the sale of 46 hotels since the beginning of the first quarter of 2006. These hotels had $5 million of revenues and $2 million of expenses (before depreciation) in 2007 as compared to $301 million of revenues and $231 million of expenses (before depreciation) in the same quarter of 2006.
 
Vacation Ownership
Total vacation ownership reported revenues increased 47.1% to $228 million when compared to 2006 due primarily to the timing of the recognition of deferred revenues under percentage of completion accounting for pre-sales at projects under construction. Originated contract sales of vacation ownership intervals were down 8.9% primarily due to a significant decline in fractional sales. Fractional sales in 2006 included sales at the St. Regis Residence Club in both Aspen and New York; fractional sales in 2007 only included sales in New York, since the St. Regis Residence Club in Aspen is now sold out. In the timeshare business, contract sales were moderately lower due to the sellout of some projects in late 2006. Closing rates and timeshare pricing remained strong during the quarter and additional timeshare and fractional inventory is becoming available for sale at several new locations over the course of this year. Vacation ownership trends remain solid and our full year expectations for strong growth in contract sales, revenues and earnings remain unchanged.
The recognition of deferred earnings under the percentage of completion method exceeded expectations by roughly $8 million during the quarter due to accelerated construction timelines at the Westin Ka'anapali Ocean Resort Villas North project in Maui and the Westin Princeville Resort in Kauai. As such, earnings to be recognized in the second and third quarters of 2007 are expected to be lower by this amount.
During the first quarter of 2007, the Company was actively selling vacation ownership interests at 15 resorts and is also in the predevelopment phase of new fractional or vacation ownership resorts in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Los Cabos, Mexico and Aruba.
Residential
During the first quarter of 2007, the Company recognized residential revenues of approximately $4 million primarily from sales at the St. Regis in New York. To date, the Company has recognized approximately $44 million in revenues from the sale of condominiums at the St. Regis in New York. In the first quarter of 2006, the Company recognized residential revenues of $39 million primarily associated with sales at the St. Regis Museum Tower in San Francisco which sold out in the first half of 2006.
Selling, General, Administrative and Other
Selling, general, administrative and other expenses increased 9.4% to $116 million compared to the first quarter of 2006. The increase is due to investments in our global development capability, and costs associated with the launch of the Company's new brands, aloft and Element, as well as the addition of the Le Mridien business.
Asset Sales
During the first quarter of 2007, the Company sold one wholly-owned hotel for cash proceeds of approximately $41 million.
 
Capital
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $30 million in renovations of hotel assets including construction capital at the Sheraton Manhattan Hotel in New York, New York, the W Los Angeles in Westwood, California, and the Phoenician in Scottsdale, Arizona. Investment spending on gross vacation ownership interest ("VOI") inventory was $85 million, which was offset by cost of sales of $54 million associated with VOI sales during the quarter. The inventory spend included VOI construction at the Westin Ka'anapali Ocean Resort Villas North in Maui, the Westin Princeville Resort in Kauai, the Westin Lagunamar Resort in Cancun, the Westin Riverfront Resort in Avon, Colorado, and the Westin St. John Resort and Villas in the Virgin Islands.
Share Repurchase
During the first quarter of 2007, the Company repurchased approximately 3.2 million shares at a total cost of approximately $208.9 million. At March 31, 2007, approximately $171 million remained available under the Company's previously approved share repurchase authorization. On April 17, 2007, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion in share repurchases. Starwood had approximately 215 million shares outstanding (including partnership units) at March 31, 2007.
Dividend
The Company paid a dividend of $0.42 per share on January 19, 2007 to holders of record on December 31, 2006.
Balance Sheet
At March 31, 2007, the Company had total debt of $2.606 billion and cash and cash equivalents (including $289 million of restricted cash) of $472 million, or net debt of $2.134 billion, compared to net debt of $2.113 billion at the end of 2006.
At March 31, 2007, debt was approximately 68% fixed rate and 32% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 4.3 years with a weighted average interest rate of 6.92%. The Company had cash (including total restricted cash) and availability under domestic and international revolving credit facilities of approximately $1.850 billion. Availability under domestic and international revolving credit facilities, not including cash and cash equivalents, was $1.378 billion.
On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes"  an Interpretation of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The interpretation prescribes recognition threshold and measurement attribute criteria for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The impact of adopting FIN 48, which is reported as a change in accounting principle, was a $35 million direct increase to the beginning balance of the Company's retained earnings on its balance sheet.
Outlook
For the full year 2007:
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2007:
 
 
Special Items
The Company recorded net credits of $19 million (after-tax) for special items in the first quarter of 2007 compared to $14 million of net charges (after-tax) in the same period of 2006.
Special items in the first quarter of 2007 primarily relate to the gain realized on the sale of a hotel and restructuring and other special credits.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations after special items (in millions, except per share data):
 
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
 
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the first quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (EST) today at (913) 312-1300. The conference call will be available through simultaneous webcast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at A replay of the conference call will also be available from 12:30 p.m. (EST) today through Thursday, May 3, 2007 at 12:00 midnight (EST) on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at (719) 457-0820 (access code 5740724).
http://www.starwoodhotels.com.
Definitions
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations. All references to "net capital expenditures" mean gross capital expenditures for timeshare and fractional inventory net of cost of sales. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's operating performance. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA (i.e., "Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the total Company as well as for individual properties or groups of properties because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as revenues and costs and expenses from hotels sold, restructuring and other special charges and gains and losses on asset dispositions and impairments, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. Due to guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company now does not reflect such items when calculating EBITDA; however, the Company continues to adjust for these special items and refers to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding condo hotels, hotels sold to date and hotels undergoing significant repositionings or for which comparable results are not available (i.e., hotels not owned during the entire periods presented or closed due to seasonality or hurricane damage). References to Company Operated Hotel metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned and managed hotels. References to System-Wide metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned, managed and franchised hotels. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
 
All references to contract sales or originated sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology.
All references to management and franchise revenues represent base and incentive fees, franchise fees, amortization of deferred gains resulting from the sales of hotels subject to long-term management contracts and termination fees offset by payments by Starwood under performance and other guarantees.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with approximately 870 properties in more than 100 countries and 145,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, aloft (SM), and Element (SM). Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses, relationships with associates and labor unions, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions and the introduction of new brand concepts and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future vacation ownership units indicated in this press release include planned units on land owned by the Company or by joint ventures in which the Company has an interest that have received all major governmental land use approvals for the development of vacation ownership resorts. There can be no assurance that such units will in fact be developed and, if developed, the time period of such development (which may be more than several years in the future). Some of the projects may require additional third-party approvals or permits for development and build out and may also be subject to legal challenges as well as a commitment of capital by the Company. The actual number of units to be constructed may be significantly lower than the number of future units indicated. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
Properties without comparable results in 2007:
Properties sold or closed in 2007 and 2006:
Selected Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items:
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Sold or Closed in 2006 and 2007
(1)
:
 
 
 
 
March 31, 2007
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
2007 Divisional Hotel Inventory Summary by Ownership by Brand
 
 


