FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20080318162202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On March 13, 2008, the Board approved an amendment to Article III of the Companys Bylaws. The amendment to Article III added a new Section 17, to provide that if a director receives less than a majority of the votes cast at an uncontested election, such director shall tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Governance and Nominating Committee, or comparable committee of the Board, will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation. The Board will decide, and make a public disclosure of its decision, within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The preceding summary is not intended to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment to the Bylaws, attached as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 3.1 - Amendment dated March 13, 2008 to the Company's Bylaws.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

The undersigned, the duly acting and qualified Assistant Secretary of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), hereby certifies that the following amendment to the Bylaws of the Company (the "Bylaws") was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company to become effective as of March 13, 2007, pursuant to Article VII of the Bylaws:
Article III of the Bylaws, entitled "Directors", is amended by adding a new Section 17 as follows:
. If a director receives less than a majority of the votes cast at an election at which the number of nominees does not exceed the number of directors to be elected, such director shall tender his or her resignation to the Board. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director nominee exceeds the number of shares voted "against" that nominee or "withheld" for that nominee. The Governance and Nominating Committee (or comparable committee of the Board) will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board will act on the Committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. Unless all directors have tendered their resignations pursuant to this Section 17, the director(s) who tender(s) his, her or their resignation(s) will not participate in the Board's decision with respect to his or her offer to tender resignation. For purposes of clarity, this Section 17 shall not apply in any election at which the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected.
Section 17. Resignation Policy
This foregoing statement is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, and this Certificate of Amendment is executed at White Plains, New York on March 18, 2008.
/s/ Michael Dojlidko Michael Dojlidko Assistant Secretary


