FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20081110160055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 10, 2008, the Company announced that it appointed Clayton C. Daley, Jr. a director of the Company on November 5, 2008. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press release dated November 10, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Media Contact: K.C. Kavanagh (914) 640-8339
WHITE PLAINS, NYNovember 10, 2008  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE:HOT), one of the world's largest hotel and leisure companies, announced today the appointment of Clayton C. Daley, Jr. to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Daley, 57, is currently Vice Chair and Chief Financial Officer for Procter & Gamble.
"With more than a decade of experience in the top financial position at P&G, Clayt is one of the most highly regarded CFOs in the world," said Frits van Paasschen, Starwood's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Coupled with his impressive background in corporate strategy and planning at arguably the biggest brand powerhouse in the world, Clayt will be a tremendous asset as Starwood continues to aggressively grow our global footprint and extend the depth and breadth of our nine distinctive and compelling brands."
Mr. Daley has spent his entire professional career with Procter & Gamble, joining the company in 1974, and has held a number of key Accounting and Finance positions including Comptroller, U.S. Operations for Procter & Gamble USA; Vice President and Comptroller of Procter & Gamble International and Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. Daley was appointed to his current position as Chief Financial Officer, Procter & Gamble in 1998 and was elected Vice Chair in 2007.
Mr. Daley's active involvement in professional organizations and charities include the Financial Executives Institute; the Rotary Club of Cincinnati; the Board of Directors for the Boys Scouts of America, Dan Beard Council; Board of Directors for Cancer Family Care; Member, Officers Conference Group; and Member, Council of Financial Executives.
Mr. Daley, who also serves on the Board of Directors of Nucor Corporation, earned a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Davidson College and received his Masters of Business Administration from The Ohio State University.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with approximately 900 properties in more than 100 countries and 155,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels, resorts and residences with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, and the recently launched Aloft, and Element. Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit starwoodhotels.com
About Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
SM
SM


