FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20080424060221.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 24, 2008, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood") announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 24, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
April 24, 2008
- Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) today reported strong first quarter 2008 financial results.
WHITE PLAINS, NY, April 24, 2008
First Quarter 2008 Highlights
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2008 of $0.42 compared to $0.56 in the first quarter of 2007. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.44 for the first quarter of 2008 compared to $0.48 in the first quarter of 2007. Excluding special items, the effective income tax rate in the first quarter of 2008 was 28.7% compared to 35.7% in the same period of 2007 primarily due to various tax planning initiatives.
Income from continuing operations was $79 million in the first quarter of 2008 compared to $123 million in 2007. Excluding special items, which net to a $4 million charge in 2008 and a $19 million benefit in 2007, income from continuing operations was $83 million for the first quarter of 2008 compared to $104 million in 2007.
Net income was $32 million and EPS was $0.17 in the first quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $122 million and EPS of $0.56 in the first quarter of 2007. The 2008 results were adversely affected by a $47 million tax charge to discontinued operations as a result of a 2008 administrative tax ruling for an unrelated taxpayer that impacts the tax liability associated with the 1998 disposition of a business.
Frits van Paasschen, CEO, said, "Starwood has again beaten expectations due to our strong global presence and leading upper upscale and luxury platform. While domestic REVPAR growth slowed in the quarter, our international divisions continued to experience robust demand and delivered REVPAR growth of 15.5%. With 55% of our 120,000 room pipeline to be built outside of the US, we continue to expand our lead in international markets with strong new unit growth expected over the coming years. Our global portfolio of branded owned hotels also performed well, delivering world-wide REVPAR growth of 9.7%. Finally, we continue to reduce our share count, buying back 6.1 million shares in the quarter."
Operating Results
First Quarter Ended March 31, 2008
Management and Franchise Revenues
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 8.4% compared to the first quarter of 2007, including 17.5% in Africa & the Middle East, 16.3% in Asia Pacific, 15.3% in Europe, 9.1% in Latin America, and 2.9% in North America. Worldwide System-wide REVPAR increases for Same-Store Hotels by brand were: Le Mridien 16.8%, St. Regis/Luxury Collection 9.3%, Four Points 8.6%, Sheraton 7.6%, W Hotels 6.3%, and Westin 5.8%.
Management fees, franchise fees and other income were $210 million, up $18 million, or 9.4%, from the first quarter of 2007. Management fees grew 15.4% to $105 million and franchise fees grew 18.2% to $39 million.
Approximately 55% of the Company's management and franchise fees are generated in markets outside the United States.
During the first quarter of 2008, the Company signed 43 hotel management and franchise contracts representing approximately 13,000 rooms of which 39 were new builds and 4
 
were conversions from other brands. At March 31, 2008, the Company had approximately 500 hotels in the active pipeline representing over 120,000 rooms, driven by strong interest in all Starwood brands. Of these rooms, almost 70% are in the upper upscale/luxury segment and over half are outside North America.
During the first quarter of 2008, 10 new hotels and resorts (representing approximately 5,000 rooms) entered the system, including the Sheraton Denver (Denver, Colorado, 1,225 rooms) and Sheraton Dallas (Dallas, Texas, 1,840 rooms). Seven properties (representing approximately 2,000 rooms) were removed from the system during the quarter.
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels
Worldwide REVPAR for Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels increased 9.7%. REVPAR at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 8.2%. Internationally, Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 2.9%, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, and as reported, in US dollars, branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 12.3%.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 6.3% while costs and expenses increased 6.2% when compared to 2007. Margins at these hotels increased 6 basis points.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels Worldwide increased 8.0% while costs and expenses increased 8.2% when compared to 2007. Margins at these hotels decreased 9 basis points.
Approximately 45% of Starwood's Owned Hotel earnings (before depreciation) is generated from outside the United States.
Revenues at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $560 million when compared to $559 million in 2007. Reported revenues and operating income were impacted by the sale and closing of 11 hotels since the beginning of the first quarter of 2007. These hotels had no revenues and expenses in 2008 as compared to $48 million of revenues and $36 million of expenses (before depreciation) in the same quarter of 2007.
Vacation Ownership
Total vacation ownership reported revenues decreased 16.2% to $191 million when compared to 2007. Reported revenues are significantly impacted by the timing of the recognition of deferred revenues under percentage of completion accounting for projects under construction. During the first quarter of 2008, the Company was actively selling vacation ownership interests at 17 resorts and is also in the predevelopment phase of several other new vacation ownership resorts in California, Colorado, Hawaii, and Mexico
.
Originated contract sales of vacation ownership intervals decreased 6.9% primarily due to the sellout of the Company's Westin Ka'anapali Ocean Resort North in Maui. The impact in Hawaii was partly offset by stronger results in Orlando driven by higher tour flow and close rates. The average price per vacation ownership unit sold decreased 14.2% to approximately $24,000, driven by a reduction in the average sales price in Hawaii as the Company shifted to sales of lower priced inventory at the Westin Princeville Resort in Kauai. The number of contracts signed increased 8.8% when compared to 2007.
 
Vacation ownership results were well ahead of the Company's expectations for the first quarter, primarily due to the favorable product mix of units sold, timing of expenses and other items that were realized earlier than expected. The Company expects that full year 2008 results will be in line with the Company's prior guidance.
Conditions remain uncertain in the asset backed securities market. We continue to expect that we will complete a sale of vacation ownership notes receivable before the end of 2008. However, given market conditions, we are now assuming the gain from this sale to be $30 million to $35 million, down $10 million from prior expectations.
Residential
During the first quarter of 2008, the Company's residential revenues were $2 million compared to $4 million in the prior year as our residential inventory at the St. Regis New York is substantially sold out.
Selling, General, Administrative and Other
Selling, general, administrative and other expenses increased 15.5% to $134 million compared to the first quarter of 2007. The increase was primarily due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and two items that benefited 2007; the reversal of workers compensation reserves and the reversal of a performance guarantee liability that was eliminated.
Asset Sales
During the first quarter of 2008, the Company entered into purchase and sale agreements for the sale of four wholly-owned hotels. The expected sales proceeds from these sales, which are expected to close later in 2008, are $269 million.
Capital
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $57 million in renovations of hotel assets including construction capital at the Sheraton Suites Philadelphia, W Times Square, aloft Philadelphia, aloft Lexington and Element Lexington. Investment spending on gross vacation ownership interest ("VOI") inventory was $106 million, which was offset by cost of sales of $39 million associated with VOI sales during the quarter. The inventory spend included VOI construction at the Sheraton Vistana Villages in Orlando, the Westin St. John Resort and Villas in the Virgin Islands, the Westin Riverfront Resort in Avon, Colorado, and the Westin Lagunamar Ocean Resort in Cancun, as well as construction costs at the St. Regis Bal Harbour Resort in Miami Beach.
Share Repurchase
During the first quarter of 2008, the Company repurchased approximately 6.1 million shares at a total cost of approximately $277 million. At March 31, 2008, approximately $316 million remained available under the Company's previously approved share repurchase authorization. Starwood had approximately 189 million shares outstanding (including partnership units) at March 31, 2008.
Dividend
The Company paid a dividend of $0.90 per share on January 11, 2008 to holders of record on December 31, 2007. This represents a 7% increase over the prior year dividends.
 
Balance Sheet
At March 31, 2008, the Company had total debt of $4.115 billion and cash and cash equivalents (including $248 million of restricted cash) of $462 million, or net debt of $3.653 billion, compared to net debt of $3.229 billion at the end of 2007.
At March 31, 2008, debt was approximately 43% fixed rate and 57% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 3.8 years with a weighted average interest rate of 5.3%. The Company had cash (including total restricted cash) and availability under the domestic and international revolving credit facility of approximately $1.352 billion.
In April 2008, $375 million of the revolving credit facility that was to expire on April 27, 2008 was converted to a term loan that matures in April 2010, with a Company option to extend until February 2011 as long as certain conditions are satisfied. The amount available under the revolving credit facility was reduced by $375 million.
Outlook
While overall lodging trends are currently strong, uncertainty surrounding the U.S. economic environment and its impact on travel patterns continues to make it difficult to predict future results.
For the full year 2008:
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2008:
 
Special Items
The Company recorded net charges of $4 million (after-tax) for special items in the first quarter of 2008 compared to $19 million of net credits (after-tax) in the same period of 2007.
Special items in the first quarter of 2008 primarily relate to severance and related costs in connection with the reorganization of certain divisions and the consolidation of certain offices and sales centers.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations after special items (in millions, except per share data):
 
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the first quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (EST) today at (913) 312-0384. The conference call will be available through simultaneous webcast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at . A replay of the conference call will also be available from 12:30 p.m. (EST) today through Thursday, May 1 at 12:00 midnight (EST)
http://www.starwoodhotels.com
 
on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at (719) 457-0820 (access code 3588734).
Definitions
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations. All references to "net capital expenditures" mean gross capital expenditures for timeshare and fractional inventory net of cost of sales. All references to "close rates" refer to the percentage of tours converted to actual sales of vacation ownership intervals. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's operating performance. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA (i.e., "Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the total Company as well as for individual properties or groups of properties because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as revenues and costs and expenses from hotels sold, restructuring and other special charges and gains and losses on asset dispositions and impairments, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. Due to guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company now does not reflect such items when calculating EBITDA; however, the Company continues to adjust for these special items and refers to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding condo hotels, hotels sold to date and hotels undergoing significant repositionings or for which comparable results are not available (i.e., hotels not owned during the entire periods presented or closed due to seasonality or hurricane damage). References to Company Operated Hotel metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned and managed hotels. References to System-Wide metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned, managed and franchised hotels. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
All references to contract sales or originated sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology.
 
All references to management and franchise revenues represent base and incentive fees, franchise fees, amortization of deferred gains resulting from the sales of hotels subject to long-term management contracts and termination fees offset by payments by Starwood under performance and other guarantees.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with approximately 900 properties in more than 100 countries and 155,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, aloft(SM), and Element(SM). Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions, including the duration and severity of any global or regional economic downturns, the availability of financing alternatives at acceptable terms, the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses, relationships with associates and labor unions, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions, and the introduction of new brand concepts and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future vacation ownership and residential units indicated in this press release include planned units on land owned by the Company or by joint ventures in which the Company has an interest that have received all major governmental land use approvals for the development of vacation ownership resorts. There can be no assurance that such units will in fact be developed and, if developed, the time period of such development (which may be more than several years in the future). Some of the projects may require additional third-party approvals or permits for development and build out and may also be subject to legal challenges as well as a commitment of capital by the Company. The actual number of units to be constructed may be significantly lower than the number of future units indicated. There can also be no assurance that agreements will be entered into for the hotels in the Company's pipeline and, if entered into, the timing of any agreement and the opening of the related hotel. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Systemwide
(1)
Statistics  Same Store For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2008 UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Worldwide Hotel Results  Same Store For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2008 UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Owned Hotel Results  Same Store
(1)
For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2008 UNAUDITED
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Deferred revenue is calculated based on the Percentage of Completion ("POC") of the project. Deferred expenses, also based on POC, include product costs and direct sales and marketing costs only. Indirect sales and marketing costs are not deferred per SFAS No. 152.
n/m = not meaningful
 
Properties without comparable results in 2008:
Properties sold or closed in 2007 and 2008:
Selected Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items:
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Sold or Closed in 2007 and 2008 (1):
 
 
 
 
March 31, 2008
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
2008 Divisional Hotel Inventory Summary by Ownership by Brand
 
 


