FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20091022060118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On October 22, 2009, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood") announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 22, 2009
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
October 22, 2009
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) today reported third quarter 2009 financial results.
WHITE PLAINS, NY, October 22, 2009
Third Quarter 2009 Highlights
 
Third Quarter 2009 Earnings Summary
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2009 of $0.22 per share compared to $0.62 in the third quarter of 2008. Excluding special items, which net to a benefit of $15 million in 2009 and a charge of $16 million in 2008, EPS from continuing operations was $0.14 for the third quarter of 2009 compared to $0.71 in the third quarter of 2008. Excluding special items, the effective income tax rate in the third quarter of 2009 was a benefit of 7.1% compared to a charge of 29.7% in the same period of 2008 primarily due to a $10 million tax benefit for the reversal of deferred taxes related to interest which is no longer deemed necessary.
Special items in the third quarter of 2009 totaled $15 million of net benefits ($0.08 per share) and included impairment charges of $27 million and restructuring charges of $2 million which were more than offset by a $44 million tax benefit primarily related to hotel sales.
Income from continuing operations was $41 million in the third quarter of 2009 compared to $113 million in 2008. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $26 million in the third quarter of 2009 compared to $129 million in 2008.
Net income was $40 million and EPS was $0.22 in the third quarter of 2009 compared to $113 million and EPS of $0.62 in the third quarter of 2008.
Frits van Paasschen, CEO said, "Over the past twelve months we have focused on cost containment and debt reduction, which positions us well to Own the Upswing'. Our increasingly fee-based, capital-efficient business model will grow as REVPAR recovers and as our pipeline translates into unit additions. Our owned hotels are skewed towards the high end and have been particularly hard-hit over the past twelve months, implying they are poised for a strong rebound as the world economy recovers. And with half of our hotels outside of the United States, we will benefit from secular growth in international markets."
"With the $6 billion Sheraton Revitalization Program nearly complete, I can't think of a better time to aggressively re-launch the brand than into the early stages of an upcycle."
Third Quarter 2009 Operating Results
Management and Franchise Revenues
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels decreased 20.3% (down 17.6% in constant dollars) compared to the third quarter of 2008. International System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels decreased 21.0% (down 16.0% in constant dollars). Worldwide System-wide REVPAR decreases by region were: 17.9% in Africa and the Middle East, 18.6% in Asia Pacific, 19.7% in North America, 22.1% in Europe and 31.3% in Latin AmericaWorldwide System-wide REVPAR decreases by brand were: Westin 17.9%, Sheraton 19.9%, Four Points by Sheraton 22.3%, Le Mridien 22.8%, W Hotels 22.9%, and St. Regis/Luxury Collection 23.2%.
.
 
Worldwide comparable company-operated gross operating profit margins declined approximately 400 basis points in the third quarter driven by REVPAR declines partially offset by continued cost-cutting efforts at the property level. International gross operating profit margins for comparable company-operated properties declined approximately 260 basis points, and North American comparable company-operated gross operating profit margins declined approximately 560 basis points.
Management fees, franchise fees and other income were $181 million, down $37 million, or 17.0%, from the third quarter of 2008. Management fees decreased 25.6% to $87 million and franchise fees decreased 15.9% to $37 million. The Company continued to work closely with its owner/partners to aggressively reduce costs, helping to minimize impact from the weak REVPAR environment.
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company signed 19 hotel management and franchise contracts representing approximately 4,200 rooms of which 15 are new builds and four are conversions from other brands. At September 30, 2009, the Company had over 350 hotels in the active pipeline representing over 85,000 rooms.
During the third quarter of 2009, 27 new hotels and resorts (representing approximately 5,200 rooms) entered the system, including the W Washington D.C. (317 rooms), the Sheraton Jinan (China, 410 rooms), the St. Regis Mexico City (189 rooms), the W Santiago (Chile, 196 rooms) and seven Aloft hotels in the United StatesEleven properties (representing approximately 3,000 rooms) were removed from the system during the quarter.
.
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels
Worldwide REVPAR for Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels decreased 23.7% (down 20.7% in constant dollars). REVPAR at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America decreased 24.0% (down 23.0% in constant dollars). Internationally, Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR decreased 23.3% (down 17.1% in constant dollars). The Company's Latin America region was hard hit by H1N1 as REVPAR decreased 39.7%.
The Company's continued rigorous cost cutting programs helped mitigate the impact of sharp revenue declines during the quarter.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America decreased 23.6% (down 22.6% in constant dollars) while costs and expenses decreased 14.8% when compared to 2008.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels Worldwide decreased 23.4% (down 20.4% in constant dollars) while costs and expenses decreased 17.1% when compared to 2008.
Revenues at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $396 million when compared to $575 million in 2008
.
 
Vacation Ownership
Total vacation ownership reported revenues decreased 31.7% to $125 million when compared to 2008. With significant cost reductions, the core vacation ownership operating income declined $6 million. Originated contract sales of vacation ownership intervals decreased 35.7% primarily due to an overall decline in demand due to the current economic climate. The average price per vacation ownership unit sold decreased 21.9% to approximately $15,000, driven by a higher sales mix of lower-priced inventory, including a higher percentage of biennial inventory. The number of contracts signed decreased 17.1% when compared to 2008.
Selling, General, Administrative and Other
Selling, general, administrative and other expenses decreased 9.7% to $102 million compared to the third quarter of 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the Company's focus on reducing its cost structure. A majority of the Company's cost containment initiatives have been completed and implemented during previous quarters, including identifying reductions across the corporate departments and divisional headquarters, for which the benefits are now being realized. These actions are expected to yield an annual run rate savings of approximately $100 million.
Asset Sales
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company sold two wholly-owned hotels for cash proceeds of approximately $96 million.
Capital
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $19 million of maintenance capital and $21 million of development capital. Investment spending on gross vacation ownership interest ("VOI") and residential inventory was $18 million, primarily in Bal Harbour. The run rate of capital spending on development and investment capital has declined throughout the year as in-flight projects have been completed.
Balance Sheet
At September 30, 2009, the Company had total debt of $3.362 billion and cash and cash equivalents of $155 million (including $42 million of restricted cash), or net debt of $3.207 billion, compared to net debt of $3.626 billion and $3.517 billion as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.
At September 30, 2009, debt was approximately 70% fixed rate and 30% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 4.3 years with a weighted average interest rate of 6.39%. The Company had cash (including current restricted cash) and availability under the domestic and international revolving credit facility of approximately $1.724 billion.
 
In January 2009, the Company and the IRS reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation pertaining to the tax treatment of the Company's 1998 disposition of World Directories, Inc. Under the proposed settlement, the Company expects to receive a refund of over $200 million as a result of tax payments previously made.
Results for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2009
EPS from continuing operations decreased to $0.98 compared to $1.60 in 2008. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.50 compared to $1.71 in 2008. Income from continuing operations was $179 million compared to $299 million in 2008. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $92 million compared to $318 million in 2008. Net income was $180 million and EPS was $0.99 compared to $250 million and $1.33, respectively, in 2008. Total Company Adjusted EBITDA, which was impacted by the sale or closure of 14 hotels since the beginning of 2008, was $546 million compared to $884 million in 2008.
Outlook
For the three months ended December 31, 2009:
For the Full Year 2009:
Based on our third quarter results and our expectations for the fourth quarter, full year 2009 REVPAR at Same-Store Company Operated Hotels Worldwide declines 20% and REVPAR at Branded Same-Store Owned Hotels Worldwide declines 25%:
 
:
For the Full Year 2010
It is very difficult at this time to provide any definitive point of view on 2010. While business conditions have clearly stabilized, it is very hard to forecast the pace of recovery, especially rate. While group bookings have picked up for 2011 and beyond, booking pace for 2010 has continued to lag below 2009. And booking windows for both transient and group business have shortened considerably. As such, late breaking business is a larger component of what will drive our performance next year making forward looking predictions four quarters out particularly challenging. What we can provide are broad guidelines that we are using for internal planning purposes:
 
 
Special Items
The Company's special items netted to a benefit of $15 million (after-tax) in the third quarter of 2009 compared to a $16 million (after-tax) charge in the same period of 2008.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations including special items (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the third quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) today at (706) 312-1228. The conference call will be available through a simultaneous web cast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at . A replay of the conference call will also be available from 1:30p.m. (EDT) today through October 29, 2009 at 12:00 midnight (EDT) on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at (706) 645-9291.
http://www.starwoodhotels.com
Definitions
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to Starwood's common shareholders. All references to continuing operations, discontinued operations and net income reflect amounts attributable to Starwood's common shareholders (i.e. excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests). All references to "net capital expenditures" mean gross capital expenditures for timeshare and fractional inventory net of cost of sales. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's operating performance. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA (i.e., "Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the total Company as well as for individual properties or groups of properties because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as revenues and costs and expenses from hotels sold, restructuring and other special charges and gains and losses on asset dispositions and impairments, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. Due to guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company now does not reflect such items when calculating EBITDA; however, the Company continues to adjust for these special items and refers to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
 
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding condo hotels, hotels sold to date and hotels undergoing significant repositionings or for which comparable results are not available (i.e., hotels not owned during the entire periods presented or closed due to seasonality or natural disasters). References to Company Operated Hotel metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned and managed hotels. References to System-Wide metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned, managed and franchised hotels. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
All references to contract sales or originated sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology.
All references to management and franchise revenues represent base and incentive fees, franchise fees, amortization of deferred gains resulting from the sales of hotels subject to long-term management contracts and termination fees offset by payments by Starwood under performance and other guarantees.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with 982 properties in more than 100 countries and 145,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, aloft(SM), and element(SM). Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses, relationships with associates and labor unions, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions and the introduction of new brand concepts and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future vacation ownership units indicated in this press release include planned units on land owned by the Company or by joint ventures in which the Company has an interest that have received all major governmental land use approvals for the development of vacation ownership resorts. There can also be no assurance that such units will in fact be developed and, if developed, the time period of such development (which may be more than several years in the future). Some of the projects may require additional third-party approvals or permits for development and build out and may also be subject to legal challenges as well as a commitment of capital by the Company. The actual number of units to be constructed may be significantly lower than the number of future units indicated. There can also be no assurance that agreements will be entered into for the hotels in the Company's pipeline and, if entered into, the timing of any agreement and the opening of the related hotel. Although we believe the expectations reflected in forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
Systemwide
(1)
Statistics  Same Store For the Three Months Ended September 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Worldwide Hotel Results  Same Store For the Three Months Ended September 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Owned Hotel Results  Same Store
(1)
For the Three Months Ended September 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Deferred revenue is calculated based on the Percentage of Completion ("POC") of the project. Deferred expenses, also based on POC, include product costs and direct sales and marketing costs only. Indirect sales and marketing costs are not deferred per SFAS No. 152.
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Systemwide
(1)
Statistics  Same Store For the Nine Months Ended September 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Worldwide Hotel Results  Same Store For the Nine Months Ended September 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Owned Hotel Results  Same Store
(1)
For the Nine Months Ended September 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Deferred revenue is calculated based on the Percentage of Completion ("POC") of the project. Deferred expenses, also based on POC, include product costs and direct sales and marketing costs only. Indirect sales and marketing costs are not deferred per SFAS No. 152.
n/m = not meaningful
 
Properties without comparable results in 2009:
Properties sold or closed in 2009 and 2008:
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Sold or Closed in 2009 and 2008 (1):
 
 
 
 
September 30, 2009
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
2009 Divisional Hotel Inventory Summary by Ownership by Brand*
 
 


