FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20100722060113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 22, 2010, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood") announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 22, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 22, 2010
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) today reported second quarter 2010 financial results.
WHITE PLAINS, NY, July 22, 2010
Second Quarter 2010 Highlights
 
Second Quarter 2010 Earnings Summary
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2010 of $0.42 per share compared to $0.78 in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.35 for the second quarter of 2010 compared to $0.22 in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding special items, the effective income tax rate in the second quarter of 2010 was 16.1% compared to 23.5% in the same period of 2009.
Income from continuing operations was $79 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $140 million in 2009. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $67 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $40 million in 2009.
Net income, which includes a $36 million after-tax gain in discontinued operations from the sale of two hotels, was $114 million and EPS was $0.61 in the second quarter of 2010 compared to net income of $134 million and EPS of $0.74 in the second quarter of 2009. Net income in 2009 includes a $120 million income tax benefit associated with an Italian tax incentive program.
Frits van Paasschen, CEO said, "Starwood's global footprint and strong brands drove the Company's second quarter revenues and earnings above expectations. Average daily rates are back into positive territory as occupancy levels continue their steady ascent towards pre-crisis levels. The relaunch of Sheraton is enjoying a terrific response with strong increases in North American market share during the first six months of 2010."
"While global lodging demand is solid, the economic outlook around the world remains unpredictable. We will continue to plan for a range of potential scenarios, but each entails a focus on driving top-line growth with strong discipline in our cost base. We remain cautiously confident in our near-term outlook and are bullish over the long-term given our growth prospects."
Second Quarter 2010 Operating Results
Management and Franchise Revenues
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 13.1% (11.9% in constant dollars) compared to the second quarter of 2009. International System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 14.6% (13.8% in constant dollars).
Increases in REVPAR for Worldwide System-wide Same-Store hotels by region:
 
Increases in REVPAR for Worldwide System-wide Same-Store hotels by brand:
Worldwide Same-Store company-operated gross operating profit margins increased approximately 150 basis points in the second quarter driven by REVPAR increases. International gross operating profit margins for Same-Store company-operated properties increased approximately 180 basis points, and North American Same-Store company-operated gross operating profit margins increased approximately 140 basis points.
Management fees, franchise fees and other income were $177 million, up $11 million, or 6.6%, from the second quarter of 2009. Management fees increased 16.3% to $100 million and franchise fees increased 20.6% to $41 million.
During the second quarter of 2010, the Company signed 25 hotel management and franchise contracts, representing approximately 6,400 rooms, of which 18 are new builds and seven are conversions from other brands. At June 30, 2010, the Company had approximately 350 hotels in the active pipeline representing approximately 85,000 rooms.
During the second quarter of 2010, 18 new hotels and resorts (representing approximately 4,100 rooms) entered the system, including the Le Mridien Philadelphia (Pennsylvania, 192 rooms), Sheraton Brooklyn New York Hotel (New York, 321 rooms), Sheraton Hsinchu (Taiwan, 359 rooms), and The Romanos, a Luxury Collection Resort, Costa Navarino (Greece, 321 rooms). Six properties (representing approximately 1,600 rooms) were removed from the system during the quarter.
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels
Worldwide REVPAR for Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels increased 18.4% (16.4% in constant dollars). REVPAR at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 21.1% (17.6% in constant dollars). Internationally, Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 14.3% (14.7% in constant dollars).
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 15.9% (12.6% in constant dollars) while costs and expenses increased 10.6% when compared to 2009. Margins at these hotels increased 390 basis points.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels Worldwide increased 16.0% (14.0% in constant dollars) while costs and expenses increased 10.3% when compared to 2009. Margins at these hotels increased 400 basis points.
Revenues at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $437 million, compared to $386 million in 2009
.
 
Vacation Ownership
Total vacation ownership revenues increased 5.6% to $131 million when compared to $124 million in 2009. Originated contract sales of vacation ownership intervals decreased 1.3% primarily due to the closure of fractional sales centers in 2009. The average price per vacation ownership unit sold decreased 7.5% to approximately $15,000, driven by price reductions and inventory mix. The number of contracts signed increased 5.9% when compared to 2009 due to higher closing efficiency partly offset by lower tour flow.
Selling, General, Administrative and Other
Selling, general, administrative and other expenses increased 17.9% to $92 million compared to the second quarter of 2009, due to the timing of accruals for incentive based compensation this year when compared to last year. SG&A head count was flat and cost controls remained strong in the quarter.
Capital
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $25 million of maintenance capital and $49 million of development capital. Investment spending on net vacation ownership interest ("VOI") and residential inventory was $28 million, primarily related to the St. Regis Bal Harbour project.
Asset Sales
On April 15, 2010, the Company completed the sale of the former W Court and Tuscany in New York for gross proceeds of $78 million. These hotels were sold unencumbered by management contracts and are no longer part of the Starwood system.
Balance Sheet
At June 30, 2010, the Company had gross debt of $2.979 billion, excluding $375 million of debt associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivable that are required to be consolidated under ASU 2009-17. Additionally, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $162 million (including $72 million of restricted cash), or net debt of $2.817 billion, compared to net debt of $2.883 billion as of March 31, 2010. Net debt at June 30, 2010 including debt associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivable was $3.192 billion.
At June 30, 2010, debt was approximately 78% fixed rate and 22% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 4.6 years with a weighted average interest rate of 6.93% excluding the securitized debt. The Company had cash (including current restricted cash) and availability under the domestic and international revolving credit facility of approximately $1.381 billion.
On April 20, 2010, the Company executed a new $1.5 billion Senior Credit Facility ("New Facility"). The New Facility matures on November 15, 2013 and replaces the former $1.875 billion Revolving Credit Agreement, which would have matured on February 11, 2011. The New Facility enhances the Company's financial flexibility and is expected to be used for general corporate purposes.
 
IRS Tax Settlement
In January 2009, the Company and the IRS reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation pertaining to the tax treatment of the Company's 1998 disposition of World Directories, Inc. Under the proposed settlement, the Company expects to receive a refund in 2010 of over $200 million as a result of tax payments previously made.
Outlook
For the Full Year 2010, based on our second quarter results and our expectations for the third quarter:
 
For the three months ended September 30, 2010:
 
Special Items
The Company's special items netted to a benefit of $21 million ($12 million after-tax benefit) in the second quarter of 2010 compared to a $26 million charge ($100 million after-tax benefit) in the same period of 2009.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations including special items (in millions, except per share data):
 
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
 
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the second quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) today at (706) 758-8744. The conference call will be available through a simultaneous web cast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at . A replay of the conference call will also be available from 1:30 p.m. (EDT) today through July 29, 2010 at 12:00 midnight (EDT) on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at (706) 645-9291 (pass code #57055870).
http://www.starwoodhotels.com
Definitions
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to Starwood's common shareholders. All references to continuing operations, discontinued operations and net income reflect amounts attributable to Starwood's common shareholders (i.e. excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests). All references to "net capital expenditures" mean gross capital expenditures for timeshare and fractional inventory net of cost of sales. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's operating performance. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA (i.e., "Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the total Company as well as for individual properties or groups of properties because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as restructuring, goodwill impairment and other special charges and gains and losses on asset dispositions and impairments, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
 
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding condo hotels, hotels sold to date and hotels undergoing significant repositionings or for which comparable results are not available (i.e., hotels not owned during the entire periods presented or closed due to seasonality or natural disasters). References to Company Operated Hotel metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned and managed hotels. References to System-Wide metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned, managed and franchised hotels. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
All references to contract sales or originated sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology.
All references to management and franchise revenues represent base and incentive fees, franchise fees, amortization of deferred gains resulting from the sales of hotels subject to long-term management contracts and termination fees offset by payments by Starwood under performance and other guarantees.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with 1,011 properties in 100 countries and 145,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, aloft(SM), and element(SM). Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses, relationships with associates and labor unions, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions and the introduction of new brand concepts and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future vacation ownership units indicated in this press release include planned units on land owned by the Company or by joint ventures in which the Company has an interest that have received all major governmental land use approvals for the development of vacation ownership resorts. There can also be no assurance that such units will in fact be developed and, if developed, the time period of such development (which may be more than several years in the future). Some of the projects may require additional third-party approvals or permits for development and build out and may also be subject to legal challenges as well as a commitment of capital by the Company. The actual number of units to be constructed may be significantly lower than the number of future units indicated. There can also be no assurance that agreements will be entered into for the hotels in the Company's pipeline and, if entered into, the timing of any agreement and the opening of the related hotel. Although we believe the expectations reflected in forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
Systemwide
(1)
Statistics  Same Store
For the Three Months Ended June 30,
UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
Worldwide Hotel Results  Same Store
For the Three Months Ended June 30,
UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Owned Hotel Results  Same Store
(1)
For the Three Months Ended June 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Deferred revenue is calculated based on the Percentage of Completion ("POC") of the project. Deferred expenses, also based on POC, include product costs and direct sales and marketing costs only. Indirect sales and marketing costs are not deferred per ASC 978-720-25 and ASC 978-340-25.
n/m = not meaningful
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Systemwide
Statistics  Same Store For the Six Months Ended June 30, UNAUDITED
(1)
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Worldwide Hotel Results  Same Store For the Six Months Ended June 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Owned Hotel Results  Same Store
(1)
For the Six Months Ended June 30, UNAUDITED
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Deferred revenue is calculated based on the Percentage of Completion ("POC") of the project. Deferred expenses, also based on POC, include product costs and direct sales and marketing costs only. Indirect sales and marketing costs are not deferred per ASC 978-720-25 and ASC 978-340-25.
n/m = not meaningful
 
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Sold or Closed in 2010 and 2009:
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


