FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20110203060200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 3, 2011, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood") announced its financial and operating results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 3, 2011
Table of Contents

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 3, 2011
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) today reported fourth quarter 2010 financial results.
WHITE PLAINS, NY, February 3, 2011
Fourth Quarter 2010 Highlights
 
Fourth Quarter 2010 Earnings Summary
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2010 of $1.08 per share compared to a loss of $1.03 in the fourth quarter of 2009. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.52 for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to $0.51 in the fourth quarter of 2009. Excluding special items, the effective income tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2010 was 24.9%, compared to 4.1% in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Special items in the fourth quarter of 2010 included an after-tax benefit of $107 million or $0.56 per share and were primarily related to the settlement with the IRS regarding the 1998 disposition of World Directories, Inc. and the favorable settlement of a lawsuit. Special items in the fourth quarter of 2009 included a $281 million after-tax charge or $1.54 per share primarily related to the impairment of vacation ownership projects, goodwill and owned hotels.
Income from continuing operations was $206 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to a loss of $186 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $99 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to $95 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Net income was $339 million and $1.78 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to a net loss of $107 million and $0.59 per share in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Frits van Paasschen, CEO said, "We ended 2010 with a strong fourth quarter, and momentum has continued into 2011. Our robust REVPAR growth is fueled by strong global brands along with sales and marketing initiatives. By containing costs we are translating these higher revenues into higher profits."
"Starwood is well-positioned to capitalize on the rapid growth in emerging markets. In developed markets, tight supply should support rate increases. Our balance sheet is in great shape, with year-end net debt of just over $2 billion. We are making solid progress towards our investment grade objective."
Fourth Quarter 2010 Operating Results
Management and Franchise Revenues
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 10.1% (10.3% in constant dollars) compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. International System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 10.1% (11.0% in constant dollars).
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store changes by region:
 
Increases in REVPAR for Worldwide System-wide Same-Store hotels by brand:
Worldwide Same-Store company-operated gross operating profit margins increased approximately 100 basis points in the fourth quarter driven by REVPAR increases and cost controls. International gross operating profit margins for Same-Store company-operated properties increased approximately 20 basis points, and North American Same-Store company-operated gross operating profit margins increased approximately 200 basis points.
Management fees, franchise fees and other income were $209 million, up $24 million, or 13.0%, from the fourth quarter of 2009. Management fees increased 23.1% to $128 million and franchise fees increased 20.0% to $42 million.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company signed 37 hotel management and franchise contracts, representing approximately 8,000 rooms, of which 29 are new builds and eight are conversions from other brands. At December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 350 hotels in the active pipeline representing approximately 85,000 rooms.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, 23 new hotels and resorts (representing approximately 5,700 rooms) entered the system, including the St. Regis Osaka (Japan, 160 rooms), Sheraton Malpensa Airport (Italy, 433 rooms), Sheraton Tianjin Binhai (China, 325 rooms), Westin Gurgaon (India, 311 rooms), Sheraton Tribeca New York Hotel (New York, 369 rooms), Element New York Times Square (New York, 411 rooms), and Aloft Harlem (New York, 124 rooms). Seven properties (representing approximately 1,400 rooms) were removed from the system during the quarter.
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels
Worldwide REVPAR for Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels increased 10.1% (10.9% in constant dollars) in the fourth quarter of 2010 when compared to 2009. REVPAR at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 9.1% (8.1% in constant dollars). Internationally, Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 11.6% (15.0% in constant dollars).
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 7.7% (6.7% in constant dollars) while costs and expenses increased 4.8% when compared to 2009. Margins at these hotels increased 220 basis points.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels Worldwide increased 5.9% (6.6% in constant dollars) while costs and expenses increased 5.5% when compared to 2009. Margins at these hotels increased 30 basis points. Adjusted for a non-recurring item recorded in 2009, margins increased approximately 170 basis points.
 
Revenues at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $459 million, compared to $430 million in 2009
.
Vacation Ownership
Total vacation ownership revenues of $135 million were flat compared to 2009. Originated contract sales of vacation ownership intervals decreased 1.2% primarily due to lower average prices. The number of contracts signed increased 7.6% when compared to 2009 and the average price per vacation ownership unit sold decreased 7.0% to approximately $14,000, driven by price reductions and inventory mix.
Selling, General, Administrative and Other
Selling, general, administrative and other expenses increased 8.9% to $86 million compared to 2009, due to higher incentive compensation, partially offset by the reimbursement of previously expensed legal fees following the favorable settlement of a lawsuit.
Capital
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $79 million of maintenance capital and $31 million of development capital. Investment spending on net vacation ownership interest ("VOI") and residential inventory was $24 million, primarily related to the St. Regis Bal Harbour project.
Dividends
In November 2010, the Company's Board of Directors declared its annual dividend of $0.30 per share. The dividend was paid by the Company on December 30, 2010 to holders of record on December 16, 2010.
Balance Sheet
At December 31, 2010, the Company had gross debt of $2.857 billion, excluding $494 million of debt associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivable that are required to be consolidated under ASU 2009-17. Additionally, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $797 million (including $44 million of restricted cash)and net debt of $2.060 billion, compared to net debt of $2.455 billion as of September 30, 2010. Net debt at December 31, 2010 including debt and restricted cash ($19 million) associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivables was $2.535 billion.
,
At December 31, 2010, debt was approximately 81% fixed rate and 19% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 4.2 years with a weighted average interest rate of 6.86% excluding the securitized debt. The Company had cash (including current restricted cash) and availability under the domestic and international revolving credit facility of approximately $2.148 billion.
IRS Tax Settlement
In December 2010, the Company received a refund of approximately $245 million for previously paid taxes and related interest from the IRS relating to the 1998 disposition of World Directories, Inc.
 
Legal Settlement
In December 2010, the Company received $75 million in connection with a favorable settlement of a lawsuit. The cash payment to the Company included the reimbursement of legal fees in connection with the matter.
Outlook
:
For the Full Year 2011
Macro-economic and geo-political environments remain uncertain. Booking windows, while improving, are short. We believe that several scenarios are possible. With low supply growth in developed markets and high demand growth in emerging markets, rate improvement will be the key driver of 2011 results. Based on trends to date, our outlook assumes a normal lodging recovery in 2011:
 
For the three months ended March 31, 2011:
 
Special Items
The Company's special items netted to a benefit of $69 million ($107 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to a $431 million charge ($281 million after-tax) in the same period of 2009.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations including special items (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
 
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the fourth quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) today at (706) 758-8744. The conference call will be available through a simultaneous web cast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at . A replay of the conference call will also be available from 1:30 p.m. (EDT) today through February 10, 2011 at 12:00 midnight (EDT) on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at (706) 645-9291 (pass code #23162931).
http://www.starwoodhotels.com
Definitions
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to Starwood's common shareholders. All references to continuing operations, discontinued operations and net income reflect amounts attributable to Starwood's common shareholders (i.e. excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests). All references to "net capital expenditures" mean gross capital expenditures for timeshare and fractional inventory net of cost of sales. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's operating performance. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA (i.e., "Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the total Company as well as for individual properties or groups of properties because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as restructuring, goodwill impairment and other special charges and gains and losses on asset dispositions and impairments, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
 
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding condo hotels, hotels sold to date and hotels undergoing significant repositionings or for which comparable results are not available (i.e., hotels not owned during the entire periods presented or closed due to seasonality or natural disasters). References to Company Operated Hotel metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned and managed hotels. References to System-Wide metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned, managed and franchised hotels. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
All references to revenues in constant dollars represents revenues, excluding the impact of the movement of foreign exchange rates. The Company calculates revenues in constant dollars by calculating revenues for the current year using the prior year's exchange rates. The Company uses this revenue measure to better understand the underlying results and trends of the business, excluding the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates.
All references to contract sales or originated sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology.
All references to management and franchise revenues represent base and incentive fees, franchise fees, amortization of deferred gains resulting from the sales of hotels subject to long-term management contracts and termination fees.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with 1,041 properties in nearly 100 countries and 145,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, aloft(SM), and element(SM). Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses, relationships with associates and labor unions, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions and the introduction of new brand concepts and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future vacation ownership units indicated in this press release include planned units on land owned by the Company or by joint ventures in which the Company has an interest that have received all major governmental land use approvals for the development of vacation ownership resorts. There can also be no assurance that such units will in fact be developed and, if developed, the time period of such development (which may be more than several years in the future). Some of the projects may require additional third-party approvals or permits for development and build out and may also be subject to legal challenges as well as a commitment of capital by the Company. The actual number of units to be constructed may be significantly lower than the number of future units indicated. There can also be no assurance that agreements will be entered into for the hotels in the Company's pipeline and, if entered into, the timing of any agreement and the opening of the related hotel. Although we believe the expectations reflected in forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Systemwide
(1)
Statistics  Same Store For the Three Months Ended December 31, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Worldwide Hotel Results  Same Store For the Three Months Ended December 31, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Owned Hotel Results  Same Store
(1)
For the Three Months Ended December 31, UNAUDITED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Systemwide
(1)
Statistics  Same Store For the Year Ended December 31, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Worldwide Hotel Results  Same Store For the Year Ended December 31, UNAUDITED
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. Owned Hotel Results  Same Store
(1)
For the Year Ended December 31, UNAUDITED
 
 
 
 
 
 
Properties without comparable results in 2010:
Properties sold or closed in 2010 and 2009:
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Sold or Closed in 2010 and 2009:
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


