FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20111109160141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 7, 2011, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that on December 15, 2011, it will redeem all of the Companys outstanding 7.875% Notes due 2012 (CUSIP No. 85590A AD6) (the "Notes"), of which an aggregate principal amount of $605,127,000 is outstanding. Holders of the Notes have been provided notice of the redemption by the trustee for the Notes. In accordance with the terms of the Notes, the Notes will be redeemed at a redemption price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes discounted to the date of redemption, on a semi-annual basis, at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury rate (as defined in the Notes) plus 50 basis points. Accrued interest will be paid to the date of redemption. The applicable Treasury rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the date of redemption. The press release and notice of redemption to the holders of the Notes are filed as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 hereto, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. Cautionary Statements This Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibits filed herewith include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements are disclosed in the "Risk Factors" contained in the Companys 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors. The Company does not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement except as required by law.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 7, 2011
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) announced today that it is exercising its option to redeem all of its outstanding 7.875% Notes due 2012 (CUSIP No. 85590A AD6) (the "Notes"), of which an aggregate principal amount of $605,127,000 is outstanding.
WHITE PLAINS, NY, November 7, 2011 
The redemption date will be December 15, 2011. The redemption price will be equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes discounted to the date of redemption, on a semi-annual basis, at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury rate (as defined in the Notes) plus 50 basis points. Accrued interest will be paid to the date of redemption. The Treasury rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the date of redemption.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with 1,071 properties in 100 countries and approximately 145,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, aloft(SM), and element(SM). Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, please visit the "Investor Relations" section within .
About Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
www.starwoodhotels.com
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions, including the duration and severity of any global or regional economic downturns, the availability of financing alternatives at acceptable terms, the impact of war and terrorist activity, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

of the above-referenced Notes
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN TO THE
HOLDERS
Pursuant to (i) Section 14.2 of the Indenture, dated as of April 19, 2002 (the "Indenture"), among Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Company"), the guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee") relating to the Company's 7 7/8% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Notes"), (ii) Paragraph 2 of the Notes and (iii) Section 3 of the reverse side of the Notes, the Company has elected to redeem and will redeem on December 15, 2011 (the "Redemption Date") all of the outstanding Notes at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Note or (b) as determined by the Independent Investment Banker (as defined in the Note), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined in the Note) plus 50 basis points plus, in each case, accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption (the "Notes Redemption Price"). In accordance with Section 3 of the reverse side of the Notes, the Notes Redemption Price will be calculated three business days preceding the Redemption Date. Holders of any Notes in certificated form will be paid the Notes Redemption Price upon presentation and surrender of their Notes for redemption at the address indicated below, and the Notes in book-entry form must be surrendered through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company in the usual manner. For all the Notes surrendered in book-entry form, payment of the redemption price, plus accrued interest, will be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company in the usual manner. The Notes called for redemption must be so surrendered in order to collect the Notes Redemption Price. The address for delivery of any Notes in certificated form is as follows:
On the Redemption Date, the Note Redemption Price will become due and payable on all Notes called for redemption and, unless the Company defaults in making payment of the Notes Redemption Price, interest on all Notes called for redemption shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date. No representation is made as to the accuracy of the CUSIP number either as printed on the Notes or as contained in this Notice of Full Redemption.
Under current United States federal income tax law, backup withholding, currently at a rate of 28%, generally may apply to the payment of gross redemption proceeds, unless (i) in the case of a non-corporate holder that is a beneficial owner of notes and that is a United States person (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes), the paying agent has received a properly completed IRS Form W-9 setting forth the holder's taxpayer identification number, certified under penalty of perjury, or (ii) the holder otherwise establishes an exemption. A holder that is a beneficial owner of notes and that is not a United States person (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) generally may establish an exemption from backup withholding by providing to the paying agent an IRS Form W-8BEN or other appropriate IRS Form W-8, upon which it certifies its foreign status.
Direct inquiries to the Company's Investor Relations Department can be made by telephone to 914-640-8100, or in the alternative to the Trustee's Bond Inquiry at 800-934-6802.
STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE, INC.
By: U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee
Dated: November 7, 2011


