FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20110428060147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2011, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood") announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 28, 2011
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 28, 2011
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) today reported first quarter 2011 financial results.
WHITE PLAINS, NY, April 28, 2011
First Quarter 2011 Highlights
 
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Summary
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2011 of $0.15 per share compared to $0.16 in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.30 for the first quarter of 2011 compared to $0.13 in the first quarter of 2010. Special items in the first quarter of 2011, which totaled $33 million (pre-tax), primarily relate to a charge associated with the Company's minority investment in a hotel in Tokyo, Japan following the earthquake in March 2011. Excluding special items, the effective income tax rate in the first quarter of 2011 was 21.0%, compared to 14.5% in the first quarter of 2010.
Income from continuing operations was $29 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $30 million in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $58 million in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $24 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Net income was $28 million and $0.14 per share in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $30 million and $0.16 per share in the first quarter of 2010.
Frits van Paasschen, CEO said, "We were able to exceed expectations despite turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East and the devastating earthquake in Japan. This is thanks to our laser-focus on growing faster than the market and flowing this outperformance down to the bottom-line."
"The outlook for the rest of the year looks promising as we view the events of the past few months as not having derailed the overall global economic recovery. For example, our group and transient bookings remain robust. As such, we remain cautiously confident for 2011 and are bullish about our long-term prospects."
First Quarter 2011 Operating Results
Management and Franchise Revenues
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 10.4% (9.1% in constant dollars) compared to the first quarter of 2010. International System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 9.5% (7.5% in constant dollars).
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store changes by region:
 
Increases in REVPAR for Worldwide System-wide Same-Store hotels by brand:
Worldwide Same-Store company-operated gross operating profit margins increased approximately 90 basis points in the first quarter. International gross operating profit margins for Same-Store company-operated properties were flat, negatively impacted by the political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, as well as the earthquake in Japan. North American Same-Store company-operated gross operating profit margins increased approximately 200 basis points, driven by REVPAR increases and cost controls.
Management fees, franchise fees and other income were $177 million, up $24 million, or 15.7% from the first quarter of 2010. Management fees increased 11.5% to $97 million and franchise fees increased 22.9% to $43 million.
During the first quarter of 2011, the Company signed 29 hotel management and franchise contracts, representing approximately 8,700 rooms, of which 19 are new builds and 10 are conversions from other brands. At March 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 350 hotels in the active pipeline representing approximately 85,000 rooms.
During the first quarter of 2011, 21 new hotels and resorts (representing approximately 5,200 rooms) entered the system, including the W London Leicester Square (England, 192 rooms), Sheraton Shanghai Hotel, Hongkou (China, 471 rooms), W Bali (Indonesia, 237 rooms), The Westin Phoenix Downtown (Arizona, 242 rooms), and The Liberty Hotel, a Luxury Collection Hotel (Boston, Massachusetts, 298 rooms). Eleven properties (representing approximately 3,400 rooms) were removed from the system during the quarter.
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels
Worldwide REVPAR for Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels increased 11.9% (10.2% in constant dollars) in the first quarter of 2011 when compared to 2010. REVPAR at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 9.6% (7.9% in constant dollars). Internationally, Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 14.9% (13.3% in constant dollars).
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 6.5% while costs and expenses increased 4.6% when compared to 2010. Margins at these hotels increased approximately 150 basis points.
 
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels Worldwide increased 8.5% (6.9% in constant dollars) while costs and expenses increased 7.4% (6.3% in constant dollars) when compared to 2010. Margins at these hotels increased approximately 90 basis points and were negatively impacted by approximately 120 basis points due to continued increase in the gap between inflation and currency devaluation at the Company's Latin America hotels.
Revenues at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $410 million, compared to $381 million in 2010. Expenses at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $361 million compared to $329 million in 2010. First quarter results were negatively impacted by pre-opening costs at the new leased W London Leicester Square, the effect of the earthquake at the new leased St. Regis Osaka, one renovation and one asset sale.
Vacation Ownership
Total vacation ownership revenues increased 12.2% to $147 million compared to 2010. Originated contract sales of vacation ownership intervals increased 6.5% primarily due to improved sales performance on existing owner channels and increased tour flow from new buyer preview packages. The number of contracts signed increased 7.8% when compared to 2010 and the average price per vacation ownership unit sold decreased 1.4% to approximately $16,500, driven by inventory mix.
Selling, General, Administrative and Other
Selling, general, administrative and other expenses increased 5.3% to $80 million compared to $76 million in 2010.
Capital
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $40 million of maintenance capital and $33 million of development capital. Net investment spending on vacation ownership interest ("VOI") and residential inventory was $16 million, primarily related to the St. Regis Bal Harbour project.
Balance Sheet
At March 31, 2011, the Company had gross debt of $2.853 billion, excluding $459 million of debt associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivable. Additionally, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $732 million (including $57 million of restricted cash), and net debt of $2.121 billion, compared to net debt of $2.060 billion as of December 31, 2010. Net debt at March 31, 2011 including debt and restricted cash ($21 million) associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivables was $2.559 billion.
At March 31, 2011, debt was approximately 78% fixed rate and 22% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 4.0 years with a weighted average interest rate of 6.80% excluding the securitized debt. The Company had cash (including current restricted cash) and availability under the domestic and international revolving credit facility of approximately $2.091 billion.
 
On April 6, 2011, the Company completed the sale of one wholly-owned hotel for cash proceeds of approximately $110 million. This hotel was sold subject to a long-term management contract.
Outlook
For the three months ended June 30, 2011:
For the Full Year 2011:
Macro-economic and geo-political environments remain uncertain. We believe that several scenarios are possible. With low supply growth in developed markets and high demand growth in emerging markets, rate improvement will be the key driver of 2011 results. Based on trends to date, our outlook assumes a normal lodging recovery in 2011, negatively impacted by Japan, North Africa and Mexico:
 
 
Special Items
The Company's special items netted to a charge of $33 million ($29 million after-tax) in the first quarter of 2011 compared to a benefit of $1 million ($6 million after-tax) in the same period of 2010.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations including special items (in millions, except per share data):
 
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
 
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the first quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) today at (706) 758-8744. The conference call will be available through a simultaneous web cast in the Investor Relations/Press Releases section of the Company's website at . A replay of the conference call will also be available from 1:30 p.m. (EDT) today through May 5, 2011 at 12:00 midnight (EDT) on both the Company's website and via telephone replay at (706) 645-9291 (pass code #23166357).
http://www.starwoodhotels.com
Definitions
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to Starwood's common shareholders. All references to continuing operations, discontinued operations and net income reflect amounts attributable to Starwood's common shareholders (i.e. excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests). All references to "net capital expenditures" mean gross capital expenditures for timeshare and fractional inventory net of cost of sales. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's operating performance. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA (i.e., "Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the total Company, as well as for individual properties or groups of properties, because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as restructuring, goodwill impairment and other special charges and gains and losses on asset dispositions and impairments, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding condo hotels, hotels sold to date and hotels undergoing significant repositionings or for which comparable results are not available (i.e., hotels not owned during the entire periods presented or closed due to seasonality or natural disasters). References to Company Operated Hotel metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned and managed hotels. References to System-Wide metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned, managed and franchised hotels. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
 
All references to revenues in constant dollars represent revenues, excluding the impact of the movement of foreign exchange rates. The Company calculates revenues in constant dollars by calculating revenues for the current year using the prior year's exchange rates. The Company uses this revenue measure to better understand the underlying results and trends of the business, excluding the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates.
All references to contract sales or originated sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology. All references to earnings from vacation ownership and residential represents operating income before depreciation expense.
All references to management and franchise revenues represent base and incentive fees, franchise fees, amortization of deferred gains resulting from the sales of hotels subject to long-term management contracts and termination fees.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with 1,051 properties in nearly 100 countries and 145,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood Hotels is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels and resorts with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, aloft(SM), and element(SM). Starwood Hotels also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., one of the premier developers and operators of high quality vacation interval ownership resorts. For more information, including reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com or contact Investor Relations at (914) 640-8165.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the impact of war and terrorist activity, natural disasters, business and financing conditions, foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses, relationships with associates and labor unions, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions and the introduction of new brand concepts and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future vacation ownership units indicated in this press release include planned units on land owned by the Company or by joint ventures in which the Company has an interest that have received all major governmental land use approvals for the development of vacation ownership resorts. There can also be no assurance that such units will in fact be developed and, if developed, the time period of such development (which may be more than several years in the future). Some of the projects may require additional third-party approvals or permits for development and build out and may also be subject to legal challenges as well as a commitment of capital by the Company. The actual number of units to be constructed may be significantly lower than the number of future units indicated. There can also be no assurance that agreements will be entered into for the hotels in the Company's pipeline and, if entered into, the timing of any agreement and the opening of the related hotel. Although we believe the expectations reflected in forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
Note: Deferred revenue is calculated based on the Percentage of Completion ("POC") of the project. Deferred expenses, also based on POC, include product costs and direct sales and marketing costs only. Indirect sales and marketing costs are not deferred per ASC 978-720-25 and ASC 978-340-25.
n/m = not meaningful
 
Properties without comparable results in 2011 and 2010:
Properties sold in 2011 and 2010:
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Sold in 2011 and 2010:
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


