FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20121126172954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
For the quarterly period ended June 30, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information required by this item is included in Item 8.01 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
As previously disclosed in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Company") has completed an internal management reorganization related to its former hotel segment. Whereas its hotel business had previously been included in a single reportable segment, as a result of this reorganization, these results are now segregated into three separate hotel segments: (i) the Americas, (ii) Europe, Africa and the Middle East ("EAME") and (iii) Asia Pacific. The vacation ownership and residential business remains a separate segment.
The Company is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to update its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2012, filed with the SEC on July 26, 2012 (the "Q2 Form 10-Q"), to reflect the change in its reportable segments.
Exhibit 99.1 includes selected sections from the Q2 Form 10-Q, which have been revised to reflect the change in the reportable segments.
The following item in the Q2 Form 10-Q has been updated from its previous presentation:
 
The changes noted above, as reflected in the information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K, affect only the manner in which certain financial information was previously reported and do not restate or revise the Company's previously reported consolidated financial statements for any period. All other information in the Q2 Form 10-Q remains unchanged and has not otherwise been updated for events or developments that occurred subsequent to the original filing of such reports.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 26, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
The following unaudited consolidated financial statements of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Company") are provided pursuant to the requirements of this Item. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for fair presentation, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, have been included. The consolidated financial statements presented herein have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 filed on February 21, 2012. See the notes to consolidated financial statements for the basis of presentation. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior years' financial statements to conform to the current year presentation. The consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in this filing. Results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full fiscal year ending December 31, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1. Basis of Presentation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements represent the consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Starwood"). The Company is one of the world's largest hotel and leisure companies. The Company's principal business is hotels and leisure, which is comprised of a worldwide hospitality network of over 1,100 full-service hotels, vacation ownership resorts and residential developments primarily serving two markets: luxury and upscale. The principal operations of Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc. ("SVO") include the acquisition, development and operation of vacation ownership resorts; marketing and selling of vacation ownership interests ("VOIs") in the resorts; and providing financing to customers who purchase such interests.
The consolidated financial statements include assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the Company and all of its controlled subsidiaries and partnerships. In consolidating, all material intercompany transactions are eliminated. We have evaluated all subsequent events through the date the consolidated financial statements were filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In accordance with the guidance for noncontrolling interests in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 810, , references in this report to our earnings per share, net income, and shareholders' equity attributable to Starwood's common stockholders do not include amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests.
Consolidation
Note 2. Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Adopted Accounting Standards
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2011-08, This topic permits an entity to assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis to determine whether an additional impairment test is necessary. This topic is for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption allowed. The Company early adopted this topic during the fourth quarter of 2011 in conjunction with its annual impairment testing.
"Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment".
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, This topic clarifies the application of existing fair value measurements and disclosure requirements and certain changes to principles and requirements for measuring fair value. This update is to be applied prospectively and is effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2012 and it did not have an effect on its consolidated financial statements.
"Fair Value Measurements (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs."
Note 3. Earnings per Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated using income from continuing operations attributable to Starwood's common stockholders (i.e. excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests).
The following is a reconciliation of basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share for income from continuing operations (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
Approximately 1,493,356 shares and 1,103,000 shares for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 1,305,513 and 875,000 shares for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted shares, as their impact would have been anti-dilutive.
Note 4. Asset Dispositions and Impairments
During the three months ended March 31, 2012, the Company sold one wholly-owned hotel for cash proceeds of approximately $11 million, net, and recognized a pre-tax loss of $7 million related to the sale. The hotel was sold subject to a long-term franchise agreement.
During the three months ended June 30, 2011, the Company sold two wholly-owned hotels, subject to long-term management agreements, for cash proceeds of approximately $237 million. The Company also sold its interest in a consolidated joint venture for cash proceeds of approximately $44 million, with the buyer assuming $57 million of the Company's debt. The Company recognized an after-tax loss in discontinued operations of approximately $18 million as a result of the sale. Additionally, the Company sold non-core assets for approximately $2 million and recorded a gain of approximately $2 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2011, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $32 million to write-off its noncontrolling interest in a joint venture that owns a hotel in Tokyo, Japan.
Note 5. Assets Held for Sale
During the three months ended June 30, 2012, the Company entered into purchase and sale agreements for the sales of certain wholly-owned hotels. The Company received a non-refundable deposit during the second quarter, and the hotels and estimated goodwill to be allocated to these assets have been reclassified as assets held for sale as of June 30, 2012 and December 31, 2011. These hotels are expected to be sold unencumbered by management or franchise agreements. In connection with the anticipated sales, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $5 million (net of tax) recorded in discontinued operations (see Note 14), primarily related to the write-down to fair market value of the properties based on the current market prices. The sales are expected to be completed in the second half of 2012.
Note 6. Transfers of Financial Assets
The Company has variable interests in the entities associated with its five outstanding securitization transactions. As these securitizations consist of similar, homogenous loans, they have been aggregated for disclosure purposes.The Company applied the variable interest model and determined it is the primary beneficiary of these Variable Interest Entities ("VIEs"). In making this determination, the Company evaluated the activities that significantly impact the economics of the VIEs, including the management of the securitized notes receivable and any related non-performing loans. The Company also evaluated its retention of the residual economic interests in the related VIEs. The Company is the servicer of the securitized mortgage receivables. The Company also has the option, subject to certain limitations, to repurchase or replace VOI notes receivable that are in default, at their outstanding principal amounts. Such activity totaled $8 million and $15 million during the three months and six months ended June 30, 2012, respectively, compared to $9 million and $17 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2011. The Company has been able to resell the VOIs underlying the VOI notes repurchased or replaced under these provisions without incurring significant losses. The Company holds the risk of potential loss (or gain) as the last to be paid out by proceeds of the VIEs under the terms of the agreements. As such, the Company holds both the power to direct the activities of the VIEs and obligation to absorb the losses (or benefits) from the VIEs.
The securitization agreements are without recourse to the Company, except for breaches of representations and warranties. Based on the right of the Company to fund defaults at its option, subject to certain limitations, it intends to do so until the debt is extinguished, to maintain the credit rating of the underlying notes.
Upon transfer of VOI notes receivable to the VIEs, the receivables and certain cash flows derived from them become restricted for use in meeting obligations to the VIE creditors. The VIEs utilize trusts which have ownership of cash balances that also have restrictions, the amounts of which are reported in restricted cash. The Company's interests in trust assets are subordinate to the interests of third-party investors and, as such, may not be realized by the Company if needed to absorb deficiencies in cash flows that are allocated to the investors in
 
the trusts' debt (see Note 11). The Company is contractually obligated to receive the excess cash flows (spread between the collections on the notes and third party obligations defined in the securitization agreements) from the VIEs. Such activity totaled $12 million and $25 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, respectively, compared to $10 million and $21 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, respectively, and is classified in cash and cash equivalents.
Note 7. Vacation Ownership Notes Receivable
Notes receivable (net of reserves) related to the Company's vacation ownership loans consist of the following (in millions):
 
The current and long-term maturities of unsecuritized VOI notes receivable are included in accounts receivable and other assets, respectively, in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The Company records interest income associated with VOI notes in its vacation ownership and residential sales and services line item in its consolidated statements of income. Interest income related to the Company's VOI notes receivable was as follows (in millions):
 
 
The following table presents future maturities of gross VOI notes receivable and interest rates (in millions):
 
For the vacation ownership and residential segment, the Company records an estimate of expected uncollectibility on its VOI notes receivable as a reduction of revenue at the time it recognizes profit on a timeshare sale. The Company holds large amounts of homogeneous VOI notes receivable and therefore assesses uncollectibility based on pools of receivables. In estimating loss reserves, the Company uses a technique referred to as static pool analysis, which tracks uncollectible notes for each year's sales over the life of the respective notes and projects an estimated default rate that is used in the determination of its loan loss reserve requirements. As of June 30, 2012, the average estimated default rate for the Company's pools of receivables was approximately 9.8%.
 
The activity and balances for the Company's loan loss reserve are as follows (in millions):
 
The primary credit quality indicator used by the Company to calculate the loan loss reserve for the VOI notes is the origination of the notes by brand (Sheraton, Westin, and Other) as the Company believes there is a relationship between the default behavior of borrowers and the brand associated with the vacation ownership property they have acquired. In addition to quantitatively calculating the loan loss reserve based on its static pool analysis, the Company supplements the process by evaluating certain qualitative data, including the aging of the respective receivables, current default trends by brand and origination year, and the Fair Isaac Corporation ("FICO") scores of the buyers.
Given the significance of the Company's respective pools of VOI notes receivable, a change in the projected default rate can have a significant impact to its loan loss reserve requirements, with a 0.1% change estimated to have an impact of approximately $4 million.
The Company considers a VOI note receivable delinquent when it is more than 30 days outstanding. Delinquent notes receivable amounted to $59 million and $62 million as of June 30, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. All delinquent loans are placed on nonaccrual status and the Company does not resume interest accrual until payment is made. Upon reaching 120 days outstanding, the loan is considered to be in default and the Company commences the repossession process. Uncollectible VOI notes receivable are charged off when title to the unit is returned to the Company. The Company generally does not modify VOI notes that become delinquent or upon default.
Note 8. Fair Value
The following table represents the Company's fair value hierarchy for its financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of June 30, 2012 (in millions):
 
The forward contracts are over-the-counter contracts that do not trade on a public exchange. The fair values of the contracts are based on inputs such as foreign currency spot rates and forward points that are readily available on public markets, and as such, are classified as Level 2. The Company considered both its credit risk, as well as its counterparties' credit risk, in determining fair value and no adjustment was made as the risk of default was deemed insignificant based on the short duration of the contracts and the Company's rate of short-term debt.
The interest rate swaps are valued using an income approach. Expected future cash flows are converted to a present value amount based on market expectations of the yield curve on floating interest rates, which is readily available on public markets.
 
Note 9. Debt
Long-term debt and short-term borrowings consisted of the following, excluding securitized vacation ownership debt (in millions):
 
During the three months ended June 30, 2012, the Company redeemed all of its outstanding 6.25% Senior Notes due 2013, which had a principal amount of approximately $495 million. In connection with this transaction, the Company terminated three interest rate swaps, which had notional amounts totaling $250 million (see Note 13). As a result of the early redemption of the 6.25% Senior Notes, the Company recorded a net charge of approximately $15 million in interest expense, representing the tender premiums, swap settlements and other related redemption costs. Also during the three months ended June 30, 2012, the Company prepaid $52 million of third party debt previously secured by one owned hotel.
Note 10. Restructuring, Goodwill Impairment and Other Special Charges (Credits), Net
Restructuring, goodwill impairment and other special charges (credits), net were $0 and $(11) million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, respectively. These net credits above are not recorded in the Company's reportable segment earnings.
As a result of a court ruling during the three months ended March 31, 2012, the Company recorded a favorable adjustment of $11 million to reverse a portion of its litigation reserve.
The Company had remaining accruals of $78 million and $89 million as of June 30, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, which are primarily recorded in accrued expenses.
Note 11. Securitized Vacation Ownership Debt
As discussed in Note 6, the Company's VIEs associated with the securitization of its VOI notes receivable are consolidated in the Company's financial statements. Long-term and short-term securitized vacation ownership debt consisted of the following (in millions):
 
 
Note 12. Other Liabilities
Other liabilities consisted of the following (in millions):
 
The Company defers gains realized in connection with the sale of a property that the Company continues to manage through a long-term management agreement and recognizes the gains over the initial term of the related agreement. As of June 30, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the Company had total deferred gains of approximately $1.0 billion included in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Amortization of deferred gains is included in management fees, franchise fees and other income in the Company's consolidated statements of income and totaled approximately $22 million and $43 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, respectively, and $22 million and $42 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, respectively.
Note 13. Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company enters into forward currency contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates. The Company enters into forward contracts to hedge forecasted transactions based in certain foreign currencies. These forward contracts have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, and their change in fair value is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the forecasted transaction occurs. To qualify as a hedge, the Company needs to formally document, designate and assess the effectiveness of the transactions that receive hedge accounting. The notional dollar amounts of the outstanding Euro forward contracts at June 30, 2012 are $15 million, with average exchange rates of 1.4, with terms of less than one year. The Company reviews the effectiveness of its hedging instruments on a quarterly basis and records any ineffectiveness into earnings. The Company discontinues hedge accounting for any hedge that is no longer evaluated to be highly effective. From time to time, the Company may choose to de-designate portions of hedges when changes in estimates of forecasted transactions occur.
The Company also enters into forward currency contracts to manage foreign currency exchange risk on intercompany loans that are not deemed permanently invested. These forward contracts are not designated as hedges, and their change in fair value is recorded in the Company's consolidated statements of income in the interest expense line item during each reporting period. These forward contracts provide an economic hedge, as they largely offset foreign currency exposure on intercompany loans.
The Company enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage interest expense. The Company's objective is to manage the impact of interest rates on the results of operations, cash flows and the market value of the Company's debt. At June 30, 2012, the Company had three interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $150 million under which the Company pays floating rates and receives fixed rates of interest ("Fair Value Swaps"). The Fair Value Swaps hedge the change in fair value of certain fixed rate debt related to fluctuations in interest rates and mature in 2014. The Fair Value Swaps modify the Company's interest rate exposure by effectively converting debt with a fixed rate to a floating rate. These interest rate swaps have been designated and qualify as fair value hedges and have met the requirements to assume zero ineffectiveness. During the second quarter of 2012, the Company terminated its three 2013 interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of $250 million, resulting in a gain of approximately $3 million recorded to interest expense.
The counterparties to the Company's derivative financial instruments are major financial institutions. The Company evaluates the bond ratings of the financial institutions and believes that credit risk is at an acceptable level.
 
The following tables summarize the fair value of the Company's derivative instruments, the effect of derivative instruments on its Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, the amounts reclassified from "Other Comprehensive Income" and the effect on the Consolidated Statements of Income during the quarter.
 
 
 
 
Note 14. Discontinued Operations
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, the loss of $7 million and $8 million, respectively, primarily relates to the Company's $5 million (net of tax) write-down to fair market value, based on current market prices, of certain wholly-owned hotels classified as held for sale (see Note 5). Additionally, the Company recorded a loss of $1 million and $2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, respectively, for accrued interest related to an uncertain tax position associated with a previous disposition.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, the loss of $19 million and $20 million, respectively, primarily relates to the Company's $18 million (net of tax) loss from the sale of its interest in a consolidated joint venture. Additionally, the Company recorded a loss of $1 million and $2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, respectively, for accrued interest related to an uncertain tax position associated with a previous disposition.
 
Note 15. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans
The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit cost for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 (in millions):
 
 
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, the Company contributed approximately $3 million and $5 million, respectively, to its pension and postretirement benefit plans. For the remainder of 2012, the Company expects to contribute approximately $6 million to its pension and postretirement benefit plans. A portion of this funding will be reimbursed for costs related to employees of managed hotels.
Note 16. Income Taxes
The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of June 30, 2012, was $158 million, of which $45 million would affect the Company's effective tax rate if recognized. It is reasonably possible that approximately $60 million of the Company's unrecognized tax benefits as of June 30, 2012 will reverse within the next twelve months.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits through income tax expense. As of June 30, 2012, the Company had $79 million accrued for the payment of interest and $1 million accrued for the payment of penalties.
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, as well as various state and foreign jurisdictions. As of June 30, 2012, the Company is no longer subject to examination by U.S. federal taxing authorities for years prior to 2007 and to examination by any U.S. state taxing authority prior to 1998. All subsequent periods remain eligible for examination. In the significant foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the Company is no longer subject to examination by the relevant taxing authorities for any years prior to 2001.
 
Note 17. Stockholders' Equity
The following tables represent changes in stockholders' equity that are attributable to Starwood's stockholders and non-controlling interests for the three and six month periods ending June 30, 2012 (in millions):
 
 
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, the Company issued approximately 1,210,000 and 1,954,000 Company common shares, respectively, as a result of stock option exercises. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, the Company repurchased 1,248,278 common shares at an average price of49.07 for a total cost of approximately $61 million. Through July 20, 2012, the Company repurchased an additional 797,538 common shares at an average price of $49.39. These shares are included in the number of shares outstanding as of June 30, 2012. As of June 30, 2012, $189 million remained available under the share repurchase authorization previously approved by the Company's Board of Directors.
Share Issuances and Repurchases.
$
Note 18. Stock-Based Compensation
In accordance with the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, during the six month period ended June 30, 2012, the Company granted stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to executive officers, members of the Board of Directors and certain employees. The Company granted approximately 371,000 stock options that had a weighted average grant date fair value of $18.62 per option. The weighted average exercise price of these options was $55.06. In addition, the Company granted approximately 1,423,000 shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units that had a weighted average grant date fair value of $55.04 per share or unit.
The Company recorded stock-based employee compensation expense, including the impact of reimbursements from third parties, of $16 million and $34 million, in the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, respectively, and $18 million and $37 million in the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, respectively.
As of June 30, 2012, there was approximately $99 million of unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, including the impact of reimbursements from third parties, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.74 years on a straight-line basis.
 
Note 19. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments (in millions):
 
As previously discussed, on January 1, 2012, the Company adopted ASU No. 2011-04. As a result, the Company has disclosed on a prospective basis the financial hierarchy that prioritizes inputs to valuation techniques as described in ASC No. 820,
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures.
The Company believes the carrying values of its financial instruments related to current assets and liabilities approximate fair value. The Company records its derivative assets and liabilities at fair value. See Note 8 for recorded amounts and the method and assumption used to estimate fair value.
The carrying value of the Company's restricted cash approximates its fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of its VOI notes receivable and securitized VOI notes receivable using assumptions related to current securitization market transactions. To gain additional comfort on the value, the amount is then compared to a discounted expected future cash flow model using a discount rate commensurate with the risk of the underlying notes, primarily determined by the credit worthiness of the borrowers based on their FICO scores. The results of these two methods are then evaluated to conclude on the estimated fair value. The fair value of other notes receivable is estimated based on terms of the instrument and current market conditions. These financial instrument assets are recorded in the other assets line item in the Company's consolidated balance sheet.
The Company estimates the fair value of its publicly traded debt based on the bid prices in the public debt markets. The carrying amount of its floating rate debt is a reasonable basis of fair value due to the variable nature of the interest rates. The Company's non-public, securitized debt, and fixed rate debt fair value is determined based upon discounted cash flows for the debt rates deemed reasonable for the type of debt, prevailing market conditions and the length to maturity for the debt.
The fair values of the Company's letters of credit and surety bonds are estimated to be the same as the contract values based on the nature of the fee arrangements with the issuing financial institutions.
Note 20. Business Segment Information
On July 1, 2012, the Company completed an internal management reorganization related to its former hotel segment. Whereas its hotel business had previously been included in a single reportable segment, as a result of this reorganization, these results are now segregated into three separate hotel segments: (i) the Americas, (ii) Europe, Africa and the Middle East ("EAME") and (iii) Asia Pacific. The vacation ownership and residential business remains a separate segment. The segment information included in these financial statements has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect these changes for all periods presented.
The Company's reportable segments each have a division president who is responsible for the management of the division. Each division president reports directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer who is also the Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM"). Financial information for each reportable segment is reviewed by the CODM to assess performance and make decisions regarding the allocation of resources.
Each hotel segment generates its earnings through a network of owned, leased, consolidated and unconsolidated joint venture hotels and resorts operated primarily under the Company's proprietary brand names including St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, Sheraton, Westin, W, Le Mridien, Aloft, Element, and Four Points by Sheraton, as well as hotels and resorts which are managed or franchised under these brand names in exchange for fees.
 
The management of the Company's vacation ownership and residential sales business is conducted by the vacation ownership and residential segment. The vacation ownership and residential segment generates its earnings through the acquisition, development and operation of vacation ownership resorts, marketing and selling of VOIs, and providing financing to customers who purchase such interests.
The CODM primarily evaluates the operating performance of a segment based on segment earnings. The Company defines segment earnings as net income attributable to its common stockholders before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as well as the Company's share of interest, depreciation and amortization associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures. Segment earnings also excludes certain recurring and nonrecurring items, such as restructuring costs, goodwill impairment and other special charges and gains (losses) on asset dispositions and impairments. General, administrative and other expenses directly related to the segments are included in the calculation of segment earnings, whereas corporate general, administrative, and other expenses are not included in the segment earnings calculation. In addition to revenues recorded within its four segments, the Company also has other revenues from managed and franchised properties, which represent the reimbursement of costs incurred on behalf of managed property owners. These revenues, together with the corresponding expenses, are not recorded within the segments. Other corporate unallocated revenues and earnings primarily relate to other license fee income and are also reported outside of segment revenues.
The following tables present revenues, segment earnings, earnings from unconsolidated ventures, capital expenditures, total assets, and investments in unconsolidated ventures for the Company's reportable segments. Prior periods have been restated to reflect the current period presentation (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 21. Commitments and Contingencies
The Company has evaluated 18 hotels in which it has a variable interest, generally in the form of investments, loans, guarantees, or equity. The Company determines if it is the primary beneficiary of the hotel by considering the qualitative factors. Qualitative factors include evaluating if the Company has the power to control the VIE and has the obligation to absorb the losses and rights to receive the benefits of the VIE, that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company has determined it is not the primary beneficiary of the 18 VIEs, and therefore these entities are not consolidated in the Company's financial statements. See Note 6 for the VIEs in which the Company is deemed the primary beneficiary and has consolidated the entities.
Variable Interest Entities.
 
The 18 VIEs associated with the Company's variable interests represent entities that own hotels for which the Company has entered into management or franchise agreements. The Company is paid a fee primarily based on financial metrics of the hotel. The hotels are financed by the owners, generally in the form of working capital, equity and debt.
At June 30, 2012, the Company had approximately $80 million of investments and loan balances of $10 million associated with 16 of our 18 VIEs. As the Company is not obligated to fund future cash contributions under these agreements, the maximum loss equals the carrying value. In addition, the Company has not contributed amounts to the VIEs in excess of their contractual obligations.
Additionally, the Company has approximately $5 million of investments and certain performance guarantees associated with the remaining two VIEs. The performance guarantees have possible cash outlays of up to $63 million, $62 million of which, if required, would be funded over several years and would be largely offset by management fees received under these contracts.
At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $83 million of investments and a loan balance of $9 million associated with the 16 VIEs. Additionally, the Company had approximately $5 million of investments and certain performance guarantees associated with the remaining two VIEs.
In limited cases, the Company has made loans to owners of, or partners in, hotel or resort ventures for which the Company has a management or franchise agreement. Loans outstanding under this program totaled $12 million at June 30, 2012. The Company evaluates these loans for impairment, and at June 30, 2012, believes the net carrying value of these loans is collectible. Unfunded loan commitments aggregating $19 million were outstanding at June 30, 2012, none of which is expected to be funded in the next twelve months or in total. These loans typically are secured by pledges of project ownership interests and/or mortgages on the projects. The Company also has $94 million of equity and other potential contributions associated with managed or joint venture properties, $54 million of which is expected to be funded in the next twelve months.
Guaranteed Loans and Commitments.
Surety bonds issued on behalf of the Company as of June 30, 2012 totaled $78 million, primarily related to an appeal of certain litigation, requirements by state or local governments relating to our vacation ownership operations and by our insurers to secure large deductible insurance programs.
To secure management contracts, the Company may provide performance guarantees to third-party owners. Most of these performance guarantees allow the Company to terminate the contract rather than fund shortfalls if certain performance levels are not met. In limited cases, the Company is obligated to fund shortfalls in performance levels through the issuance of loans. Many of the performance tests are multi-year tests, tied to the results of a competitive set of hotels, and have exclusions for force majeure and acts of war and terrorism. The Company does not anticipate any significant funding under its performance guarantees in 2012.
In connection with the purchase of the Le Mridien brand in November 2005, the Company was indemnified for certain of Le Mridien's historical liabilities by the entity that bought Le Mridien's owned and leased hotel portfolio. The indemnity is limited to the financial resources of that entity. However, at this time, the Company believes that it is unlikely that it will have to fund any of these liabilities.
In connection with the sale of 33 hotels to a third party in 2006, the Company agreed to indemnify the third party for certain pre-disposition liabilities, including operations and tax liabilities. At this time, the Company believes that it will not have to make any significant payments under such indemnities.
The Company is involved in various legal matters that have arisen in the normal course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. Accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. While the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, the Company does not believe that the resolution of these legal matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flow. However, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect the Company's future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period.
Litigation.
 








