FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20121214160434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On December 14, 2012, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that on December 24, 2012, it will redeem all of the Company's outstanding 7.875% Senior Notes due 2014 (CUSIP No. 85590AAM6) (the "Notes"), of which an aggregate principal amount of approximately $179 million is currently outstanding. Holders of the Notes have been provided notice of the redemption by the trustee for the Notes.
In accordance with the terms of the Notes, the Notes will be redeemed at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes discounted to the date of redemption, on a semi-annual basis, at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined in the Notes) plus 50 basis points. Accrued interest will be paid to, but excluding, the date of redemption. The applicable Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the date of redemption.
The press release and notice of redemption to the holders of the Notes are filed as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 hereto, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Cautionary Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibits filed herewith include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements are disclosed in the "Risk Factors" contained in the Company's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors. The Company does not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement except as required by law.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 14, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
One StarPoint
Stamford, CT 06902
United States
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) announced today that it is exercising its option to redeem all of its outstanding 7.875% Senior Notes due 2014 (CUSIP No. 85590AAM6) (the "Notes"), of which an aggregate principal amount of approximately $179 million is currently outstanding.
STAMFORD, Conn. (December 14, 2012)
The redemption date will be December 24, 2012. The redemption price will be equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed or (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes discounted to the date of redemption, on a semi-annual basis, at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined in the Notes) plus 50 basis points. Accrued interest will be paid to, but excluding, the date of redemption. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the date of redemption.
About Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc.
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with 1,128 properties in nearly 100 countries and approximately 154,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels, resorts and residences with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, Aloft and Element
SM
. Starwood boasts one of the industry's leading loyalty programs, Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), allowing members to earn and redeem points for room stays, room upgrades and flights, with no blackout dates. Starwood also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., a premier provider of world-class vacation experiences through villa-style resorts and privileged access to Starwood brands. For more information, please visit .
www.starwoodhotels.com
Forward Looking Statements
This communication contains forward-looking statements relating to the redemption of the Notes, as well as Starwood's ability to implement its strategic and business initiatives. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause actual results to vary materially from those expressed in or indicated by them. Additional risks and factors are identified in Starwood's filings with the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which is available on the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. Starwood undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement, or to make any other forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 

Exhibit 99.2
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN TO THE
HOLDERS OF THE ABOVE-REFERENCED NOTES
Pursuant to (i) Article 3 of the Indenture, dated as of September 13, 2007 (the ""), between Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (the "") and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company to be issued in one or more series of the Company's securities, (ii) Article 3 of Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of May 7, 2009 (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the Company and the Trustee, relating to the Company's 7.875% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "") and (iii) Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the reverse side of the Notes, the Company has elected to redeem and will redeem on December 24, 2012 (the "") all of the then-outstanding Notes at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Note or (b) as determined by an Independent Investment Banker (as defined in the Note), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined in the Note) plus 50 basis points plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the Redemption Date (the ""). The Notes Redemption Price will be calculated pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. Holders of any Notes in certificated form will be paid the Notes Redemption Price upon presentation and surrender of their Notes for redemption at the address of the Trustee indicated below. Notes in book-entry form must be surrendered through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company in the usual manner, and payment of the Notes Redemption Price will be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company in the usual manner. The Notes called for redemption must be so surrendered in order to collect the Notes Redemption Price. The address for delivery of any Notes in certificated form is as follows:
Base Indenture
Company
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Notes
Redemption Date
Notes Redemption Price
 
On the Redemption Date, the Notes Redemption Price will become due and payable on all Notes called for redemption and, unless the Company defaults in making
payment of the Notes Redemption Price, interest on all Notes called for redemption shall cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date. No representation is made as to the accuracy of the CUSIP number either as printed on the Notes or as contained in this Notice of Full Redemption.
Direct inquiries to the Company's Investor Relations Department can be made by telephone to 203-351-3500, or in the alternative to the Trustee's Bond Inquiry at 800-934-6802.
 
Dated: December 13, 2012
 


