FILE:HOT/HOT-8K-20120426082101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 26, 2012, Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood") announced its financial and operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 26, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor Contact
Stephen Pettibone
203-351-3500
 
STARWOOD REPORTS FIRST QUARTER
2012 RESULTS
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: HOT) today reported first quarter 2012 financial results.
STAMFORD, Conn. (April 26, 2012)
First Quarter 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Summary
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ("Starwood" or the "Company") today reported EPS from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2012 of $0.65 compared to $0.15 in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding special items, EPS from continuing operations was $0.63 for the first quarter of 2012, including income from The St. Regis Bal Harbour Resort residential project ("Bal Harbour"), compared to $0.30 in the first quarter of 2011. Special items in the first quarter of 2012 included an $11 million (pre-tax) reduction of a legal reserve, partially offset by a $7 million (pre-tax) loss on the sale of one wholly-owned hotel. Special items in the first quarter of 2011 included a pre-tax charge of $33 million, primarily related to the Company's minority investment in a hotel in Tokyo, Japan following the earthquake in March 2011. Excluding special items, the effective income tax rate in the first quarter of 2012 was 29.8%, including income from Bal Harbour, compared to 21.0% in the first quarter of 2011.
Income from continuing operations was $129 million in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $29 million in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding special items, income from continuing operations was $124 million in the first quarter of 2012, including income from Bal Harbour, compared to $58 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Net income was $128 million and $0.65 per share in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $28 million and $0.14 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
Frits van Paasschen, CEO, said, "Our momentum picked up in the first quarter. Worldwide REVPAR grew 6.4%, adjusting for exchange rates, and fees were up a healthy 13.6%. We are proud to report that our brand portfolio again outperformed the market, posting our 11
th
straight quarterly gain in REVPAR index."
"Going into the year, we said that 2012 was more likely to surprise on the upside. So far, that is playing out. More importantly, we remain very bullish on the long-term. Seemingly unstoppable demographic and economic trends are fueling global growth in demand for high end travel. Rising wealth around the world and globally interconnected businesses will lead to ever more travel."
First Quarter 2012 Operating Results
Management and Franchise Revenues
Worldwide System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 5.8% (6.4% in constant dollars) compared to the first quarter of 2011. International System-wide REVPAR for Same-Store Hotels increased 4.1% (5.2% in constant dollars).
Changes in REVPAR for Worldwide System-wide Same-Store Hotels by region:
 
 
 
Increases in REVPAR for Worldwide System-wide Same-Store Hotels by brand:
 
Worldwide Same-Store Company-Operated gross operating profit margins increased approximately 160 basis points compared to 2011. International gross operating profit margins for Same-Store Company-Operated properties increased 160 basis points. North American Same-Store Company-Operated gross operating profit margins increased approximately 170 basis points, driven by REVPAR increases and cost controls.
Management fees, franchise fees and other income were $201 million, up $24 million, or 13.6% from the first quarter of 2011. Management fees increased 18.6% to $115 million and franchise fees increased 4.7% to $45 million. Year-over-year comparisons were impacted by the conversion of some franchise agreements to management contracts in Germany.
Development
During the first quarter of 2012, the Company signed 32 hotel management and franchise contracts, representing approximately 9,000 rooms, of which 22 are new builds and 10 are conversions from other brands. At March 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 365 hotels in the active pipeline representing approximately 95,000 rooms.
During the first quarter of 2012, 18 new hotels and resorts (representing approximately 4,500 rooms) entered the system, including The St. Regis Bal Harbour Resort (Florida, 213 rooms), The Westin Lake Las Vegas Resort & Spa (Nevada, 493 rooms), Sheraton Xian North City (China, 491 rooms), Le Mridien Istanbul Etiler (Turkey, 259 rooms) and W Paris Opera (France, 91 rooms). Five properties (representing approximately 1,000 rooms) were removed from the system during the quarter.
Owned, Leased and Consolidated Joint Venture Hotels
Worldwide REVPAR at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels increased 4.5% (4.9% in constant dollars) when compared to 2011. REVPAR at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 3.6% (3.9% in constant dollars). Internationally, Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotel REVPAR increased 5.8% (6.2% in constant dollars).
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels in North America increased 3.5% while costs and expenses increased 2.4% when compared to 2011. Margins at these hotels increased approximately 90 basis points.
Revenues at Starwood branded Same-Store Owned Hotels Worldwide increased 4.1% (4.5% in constant dollars) while costs and expenses increased 2.1% (2.6% in constant dollars) when compared to 2011. Margins at these hotels increased approximately 160 basis points.
Revenues at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $402 million, compared to $410 million in 2011. Expenses at owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels were $349 million compared to $361 million in 2011. First quarter results were negatively impacted by five asset sales as well as preopening costs associated with the opening of The St. Regis Bal Harbour Resort.
 
 
Vacation Ownership
Total vacation ownership revenues increased 3.4% to $152 million in the first quarter of 2012 when compared to 2011. Originated contract sales of vacation ownership intervals increased 1.2%, primarily due to increased tour flow from new buyers and improved sales and marketing performance. The number of contracts signed increased 3.6%, when compared to 2011, and the average price per vacation ownership unit sold decreased 2.4% to approximately $16,000, driven by inventory mix.
Residential
The Company's residential revenues were $362 million compared to $6 million in 2011. The Company realized residential revenues for Bal Harbour during the first quarter of 2012 of $356 million and generated EBITDA of $78 million. During the first quarter of 2012, the Company closed sales of 102 units and realized cash proceeds of $263 million associated with these units. From project inception through March 31, 2012, the Company has closed contracts on approximately 45% of the total residential units.
Selling, General, Administrative and Other
Selling, general, administrative and other expenses increased to $96 million compared to $80 million in 2011. The increase was primarily due to non-recurring professional expenses and favorable reserve adjustments recorded in the prior year. We continue to target a 4% to 5% increase for the full year
.
Asset Sales
During the quarter, the Company completed the sale of one wholly-owned hotel. This hotel was sold subject to a long-term franchise contract.
Capital
Gross capital spending during the quarter included approximately $29 million of maintenance capital and $50 million of development capital.
Balance Sheet
At March 31, 2012, the Company had gross debt of $2.200 billion, excluding $489 million of debt associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivable. Additionally, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $817 million (including $160 million of restricted cash), and net debt of $1.383 billion, compared to net debt of $1.531 billion as of December 31, 2011. Net debt at March 31, 2012, including debt and restricted cash ($21 million) associated with securitized vacation ownership notes receivables, was $1.851 billion.
At March 31, 2012, debt was approximately 80% fixed rate and 20% floating rate and its weighted average maturity was 3.9 years with a weighted average interest rate of 6.65%, excluding the securitized debt. The Company had cash (including current restricted cash) and availability under the domestic and international revolving credit facility of approximately $2.324 billion.
 
 
Outlook
For the Full Year 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special Items
The Company's special items netted to a benefit of $4 million ($5 million after-tax) in the first quarter of 2012 compared to a charge of $33 million ($29 million after-tax) in the same period of 2011.
The following represents a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before special items to income from continuing operations including special items (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
The three months ended March 31, 2011 also includes a benefit related to the reversal of income tax reserves associated with prior dispositions.
The Company has included the above supplemental information concerning special items to assist investors in analyzing Starwood's financial position and results of operations. The Company has chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and as a means to emphasize the results of core on-going operations.
Starwood will be conducting a conference call to discuss the first quarter financial results at 10:30 a.m. (EDT) today at (706) 758-8764 with conference ID 66945366. The conference call will be available through a simultaneous webcast in the News & Events section of the Company's website at . A replay of the conference call will also be available from 1:30 p.m. (EDT) today through Thursday, May 3, 2012 at 12:00 midnight (EDT) by telephone at (855) 859-2056 with conference ID 66945366 and webcast on the corporate website.
http://www.starwoodhotels.com/corporate/investor_relations.html
 
 
Definitions
All references to EPS, unless otherwise noted, reflect earnings per diluted share from continuing operations attributable to Starwood's common stockholders. All references to continuing operations, discontinued operations and net income reflect amounts attributable to Starwood's common stockholders (i.e. excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests). All references to "net capital expenditures" mean gross capital expenditures for timeshare and fractional inventory net of cost of sales. EBITDA represents net income before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of the Company's operating performance due to the significance of the Company's long-lived assets and level of indebtedness. EBITDA is a commonly used measure of performance in its industry which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's operating performance. It also facilitates comparisons between the Company and its competitors. The Company's management has historically adjusted EBITDA (i.e., "Adjusted EBITDA") when evaluating operating performance for the Company, as well as for individual properties or groups of properties, because the Company believes that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items, such as restructuring, goodwill impairment and other special charges and gains and losses on asset dispositions and impairments, is necessary to provide the most accurate measure of core operating results and as a means to evaluate comparative results. The Company's management also uses Adjusted EBITDA as a measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and it is used in the annual budget process. The Company has historically reported this measure to its investors and believes that the continued inclusion of Adjusted EBITDA provides consistency in its financial reporting and enables investors to perform more meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and provides a means to evaluate the results of its core on-going operations. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not intended to represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and such metrics should not be considered as an alternative to net income, cash flow from operations or any other performance measure prescribed by GAAP. The Company's calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may be different from the calculations used by other companies and, therefore, comparability may be limited.
All references to Same-Store Owned Hotels reflect the Company's owned, leased and consolidated joint venture hotels, excluding condo hotels, hotels sold to date and hotels undergoing significant repositionings or for which comparable results are not available (i.e., hotels not owned during the entire periods presented or closed due to seasonality or natural disasters). References to Company Operated Hotel metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned, leased and managed hotels. References to System-wide metrics (e.g. REVPAR) reflect metrics for the Company's owned, managed and franchised hotels. REVPAR is defined as revenue per available room. ADR is defined as average daily rate.
All references to revenues in constant dollars represent revenues, excluding the impact of the movement of foreign exchange rates. The Company calculates revenues in constant dollars by calculating revenues for the current year using the prior year's exchange rates. The Company uses this revenue measure to better understand the underlying results and trends of the business, excluding the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates.
All references to contract sales or originated sales reflect vacation ownership sales before revenue adjustments for percentage of completion accounting methodology. All references to earnings from vacation ownership and residential represents operating income before depreciation expense. All references to management and franchise revenues represent base and incentive fees, franchise fees, amortization of deferred gains resulting from the sales of hotels subject to long-term management contracts and termination fees.
 
 
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc. is one of the leading hotel and leisure companies in the world with 1,103 properties in nearly 100 countries and 154,000 employees at its owned and managed properties. Starwood is a fully integrated owner, operator and franchisor of hotels, resorts and residences with the following internationally renowned brands: St. Regis, The Luxury Collection, W, Westin, Le Mridien, Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, Aloft, and Element
SM
. The Company boasts one of the industry's leading loyalty programs, Starwood Preferred Guest (SPG), allowing members to earn and redeem points for room stays, room upgrades and flights, with no blackout dates. Starwood also owns Starwood Vacation Ownership, Inc., a premier provider of world-class vacation experiences through villa-style resorts and privileged access to Starwood brands. For more information, including reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures, please visit www.starwoodhotels.com or contact Investor Relations at (203) 351-3500.
Note:  This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities regulations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the time the forward-looking statements are made. Further results, performance and achievements may be affected by general economic conditions including the impact of war and terrorist activity, natural disasters, business and financing conditions (including the condition of credit markets in the U.S. and internationally), foreign exchange fluctuations, cyclicality of the real estate (including residential) and the hotel and vacation ownership businesses, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation ownership and residential businesses, relationships with associates and labor unions, customers and property owners, the impact of the internet reservation channels, our reliance on technology, domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions, competition, governmental and regulatory actions (including the impact of changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and their interpretation), travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases, risk associated with the level of our indebtedness, risk associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions and the introduction of new brand concepts and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties are presented in detail in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Future vacation ownership units indicated in this press release include planned units on land owned by the Company or by joint ventures in which the Company has an interest that have received all major governmental land use approvals for the development of vacation ownership resorts. There can also be no assurance that such units will in fact be developed and, if developed, the time period of such development (which may be more than several years in the future). Some of the projects may require additional third-party approvals or permits for development and build out and may also be subject to legal challenges as well as a commitment of capital by the Company. The actual number of units to be constructed may be significantly lower than the number of future units indicated. There can also be no assurance that agreements will be entered into for the hotels in the Company's pipeline and, if entered into, the timing of any agreement and the opening of the related hotel. Although we believe the expectations reflected in forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained or that results will not materially differ. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Deferred revenue is calculated based on the Percentage of Completion ("POC") of the project. Deferred expenses, also based on POC, include product costs and direct sales and marketing costs only. Indirect sales and marketing costs are not deferred per ASC 978-720-25 and ASC 978-340-25.
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
Revenues and Expenses Associated with Assets Sold or Closed in 2012 and 2011:
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


