FILE:PFE/PFE-8K-20061026085243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the authorized undersigned.
 

NEW YORK, October 26 -- Pfizer Inc announced today the election of Dennis A. Ausiello, M.D. to the Pfizer Board of Directors effective December 1, 2006.
Dr. Ausiello, 61, has deep experience and a distinguished record of leadership and accomplishment in scientific research and medicine, areas of critical importance to Pfizer. He will serve on the Science and Technology Committee of the Pfizer Board which reviews the companys research and development and technology initiatives.
Dr. Ausiello is the Jackson Professor of Clinical Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Chief of Medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH). He also is an internationally recognized research scientist for his substantial contributions in cell biology.
As chief of medicine at MGH for the last decade, Dr. Ausiello leads one of the most renowned departments of medicine in the United States with an annual clinical, research and education budget of more than $500 million. He oversees the training of graduate and undergraduate medical students, post-doctoral fellows and house officers at Harvard Medical School. He earlier served as chief of MGHs renal unit and oversaw the development of one of the worlds leading research and training programs in kidney disease.
Dr. Ausiello currently serves as president of the Association of American Physicians, a leading organization of academic physicians. He was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences in 1999 and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2003. He is the recipient of two MERIT awards from the National Institutes of Health and has served as a member of the National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Diseases Advisory Council and the National Advisory Council on Aging. Dr. Ausiello serves on the Board of Directors of MicroCHIPS, a drug-sensing and delivery company, and is an advisor to the Chairman of the Board of TIAX (formerly Arthur D. Little).
Dr. Ausiello has published more than 150 papers and book chapters and co-edits , now in its 22nd edition. He also has written for the , the and the .
Cecils Textbook of Medicine
New York Times
Wall Street Journal
Boston Globe
He is a 1967 cum laude graduate of Harvard College, where he received a Bachelors degree in Biochemical Sciences, and of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine where he received his medical degree in 1971.
 
 


