FILE:PFE/PFE-8K-20091014184024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
PFIZER INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[X] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2 (b))
 
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events
As previously announced, Pfizer Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), Wagner Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub), and Wyeth, a Delaware corporation, entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 25, 2009, as amended on September 30, 2009 (the Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement and subject to the conditions set forth therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into Wyeth, with Wyeth surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the Merger). The Merger has been approved by Wyeth's stockholders, all required regulatory agencies and Pfizer has completed the financing for the Merger.  The Merger is subject to usual and customary closing conditions.
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information of Pfizer and Wyeth as of and for the six months ended June 28, 2009 and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and Wyeths unaudited historical consolidated condensed financial statements as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and related notes are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K (including information included or incorporated by reference herein) includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the pending merger between Pfizer and Wyeth, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Pfizer's and Wyeth's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Neither Pfizer nor Wyeth undertake any obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.  The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that the expected synergies from the pending merger of Pfizer and Wyeth will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period, due to, among other things, the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and pending legislation that could affect the pharmaceutical industry; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the possibility that the merger does not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions; Pfizer's and Wyeth's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Pfizer's and Wyeth's patents and other protections for innovative products; the risk of new and changing regulation and health policies in the U.S. and internationally and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Pfizer's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on February 27, 2009, Wyeth's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009, as amended on April 30, 2009, and Pfizers Registration Statement on Form S-4, which was declared effective by the SEC on June 17, 2009, included in the Risk Factors section of each of these filings, and each company's other filings with the SEC available at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
 
Additional Information
 
In connection with the pending acquisition of Wyeth, Pfizer has filed with the SEC, and the SEC has declared effective, a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that includes a proxy statement of Wyeth that also constitutes a prospectus of Pfizer. Wyeth mailed the proxy statement/prospectus to its stockholders, who approved the pending acquisition on July 20, 2009. Pfizer urges investors and security holders to read the proxy statement/prospectus regarding the pending acquisition because it contains important information. You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this transaction, free of charge, at the SECs website (www.sec.gov). You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Pfizers website, www.pfizer.com, under the tab Investors and then under the tab SEC Filings. You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Wyeths website, www.wyeth.com, under the heading Investor Relations and then under the tab Financial Reports/SEC Filings. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be deemed to have been participants in the solicitation of the Wyeth stockholders in connection with the pending acquisition is set forth in the proxy
 statement/prospectus.  You can find information about Pfizers executive officers and directors in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 13, 2009. You can find information about Wyeths executive officers and directors in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, as amended by Wyeths Annual Report on Form 10-K/A, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009 and April 30, 2009, respectively, and the definitive proxy statement/prospectus for Wyeths 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was filed with the SEC on June 17, 2009. The information contained in Pfizers and Wyeths websites is not incorporated by reference and does not constitute a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the authorized undersigned.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and for the six months ended June 28, 2009 combine the historical consolidated statements of income of Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) and Wyeth, giving effect to the merger of Wyeth and Wagner Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer, as if it had occurred on January 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 28, 2009 combines the historical consolidated balance sheets of Pfizer and Wyeth, giving effect to the merger as if it had occurred on June 28, 2009. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements to give effect to pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the merger, (2) factually supportable, and (3) with respect to the statements of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was based on and should be read in conjunction with the:
 
 
 
 
 
For ease of reference, all pro forma statements use Pfizers period-end date and no adjustments were made to Wyeths reported information for its different quarter-end date.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been presented for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the combined companys financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the merger been completed as of the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company. There were no material transactions between Pfizer and Wyeth during the periods presented in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements that would need to be eliminated.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been prepared using the acquisition method of accounting under existing U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP standards), which are subject to change and interpretation. Pfizer has been treated as the acquirer in the merger for accounting purposes. The acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that have yet to commence or progress to a stage where there is sufficient information for a definitive measurement.  Accordingly, the pro forma  adjustments included herein are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, and may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. Differences between the preliminary estimates reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and the final acquisition accounting will likely occur, and these differences could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and the combined companys future results of operations and financial position.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any divestitures that may be required by regulatory agencies in connection with their approval of Pfizers pending acquisition of Wyeth.
1
 
 
 
Also, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any cost savings, operating synergies or revenue enhancements that the combined company may achieve as a result of the merger, the costs to integrate the operations of Pfizer and Wyeth or the costs necessary to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies and revenue enhancements.
2
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statementsThe pro forma adjustments are explained in
.  
Note 6. Pro Forma Adjustments.
 
3
 
                           
 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statementsThe pro forma adjustments are explained in
.  
Note 6. Pro Forma Adjustments.
4
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statementsThe pro forma adjustments are explained in
.  
Note 6. Pro Forma Adjustments.
5
 
1.  
Description of Transaction
 
On January 25, 2009, Pfizer Inc., Wagner Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer, and Wyeth entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended on September 30, 2009 (the merger agreement), pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the merger agreement, Wyeth will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer (the merger). Upon completion of the merger, each share of Wyeth common stock issued and outstanding will be converted into the right to receive, subject to adjustment under limited circumstances, a combination of $33.00 in cash, without interest, and 0.985 of a share (the exchange ratio) of Pfizer common stock (the merger consideration) in a taxable transaction. Pfizer will not issue more than 19.9% of its outstanding common stock at the acquisition date in connection with the merger. The exchange ratio of 0.985 of a share of Pfizer common stock will be adjusted if the exchange ratio would result in Pfizer issuing in excess of 19.9% of its outstanding common stock as a result of the merger. In this circumstance, the exchange ratio will be reduced to the minimum extent necessary so that the number of shares of Pfizer common stock issued or issuable as a result of the merger will equal 19.9% of its outstanding common stock and the cash portion of the merger consideration will be increased by an equivalent value. Pfizer and Wyeth currently do not anticipate that any adjustment to the exchange ratio will be required. Accordingly, Pfizer does not believe that a potential adjustment to the merger consideration as described above will have a material effect on the pro forma financial statement balances.
 
Each outstanding Wyeth stock option, whether or not then vested and exercisable, will become fully vested and exercisable immediately prior to, and then will be canceled at, the effective time of the merger, and the holder of such option will be entitled to receive as soon as practicable after the effective time of the merger but in no event later than ten business days following the effective time of the merger an amount in cash, without interest and less any applicable tax to be withheld, equal to (i) the excess, if any, of the per share value of the merger consideration to be received by holders of Wyeth common stock in the merger over the per share exercise price of such Wyeth stock option multiplied by (ii) the total number of shares of Wyeth common stock underlying such Wyeth stock option, with the aggregate amount of such payment rounded up to the nearest cent. The per share value of the merger consideration is equal to the sum of (x) the cash portion of the merger consideration, plus (y) the market value of the stock portion of the merger consideration (based on the volume weighted average price of Pfizer common stock for the five consecutive trading days ending two days prior to the effective time of the merger, as such prices are reported on the NYSE Transaction Reporting System). If the per share exercise price of any Wyeth stock option is equal to or greater than the per share value of the merger consideration, then the stock option will be canceled without any payment to the stock option holder.
 
Also at the effective time of the merger, each outstanding share of restricted stock, each outstanding deferred stock unit (DSU) and each outstanding restricted stock unit (RSU), including each outstanding performance share unit award (but excluding certain RSUs that constitute deferred compensation, as discussed below), will become fully vested and then will be canceled and converted into the right to receive an amount in cash equal to the per share value of the merger consideration in respect of each share of Wyeth common stock into which the vested portion of such outstanding restricted stock, DSU and RSU award, as applicable, would otherwise be convertible (except that with respect to any performance share unit award which by the terms of the award agreement pursuant to which it was granted provides for a lesser percentage of such performance share unit award to become vested upon the effective time of the merger, such performance share unit award will only become vested as to such percentage (with the remaining unvested portion being canceled without payment)). These cash amounts will be paid out as soon as practicable after the effective time of the merger but in no event later than ten business days following the effective time of the merger in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans. However, at the effective time of the merger, each outstanding RSU that constitutes deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (409A RSU) will, as of the effective time of the merger, become a vested right to receive the merger consideration in respect of each share of Wyeth common stock into which such 409A RSU would otherwise be convertible. Such merger consideration will be deposited into a grantor trust in which the cash portion of the merger consideration will accrue interest at a designated market rate, the portion of the merger consideration that is Pfizer common stock will accrue dividends in the form of additional shares of Pfizer common stock in the same amount and at the same time as dividends are paid on Pfizer common stock, and all of these amounts will be paid out in accordance with the applicable payment schedules provided for under the applicable deferred payment terms of such 409A RSUs. For purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, it is assumed that there are no RSU awards that cannot be immediately settled due to tax law restrictions.
 
The merger agreement provides that, upon completion of the merger, each share of Wyeth $2 Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to completion of the merger was to be converted into the right to receive one share of a new series of Pfizer preferred stock having the same powers, designations, preferences and
rights (to the fullest extent practicable) as the shares of the Wyeth $2 Convertible Preferred Stock. Pursuant to a request from Pfizer made in accordance with the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, all of Wyeths outstanding $2 Convertible Preferred Stock that was not previously converted to Wyeth common stock at the option of the holders of such stock was redeemed by Wyeth, effective July 15, 2009 at a redemption price of $60.08 per share. Since there will be no shares of Wyeth $2 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding at the effective time of the merger, Pfizer will not create or issue a new series of $2 Pfizer Convertible Preferred Stock in connection with the merger. Prior to the redemption date, holders of Wyeth $2 Convertible Preferred Stock could have elected to convert all, or a portion, of their holdings into Wyeth common stock. Each share of Wyeth $2 Convertible Preferred Stock could have been converted into 36 shares of Wyeth common stock. For purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, Pfizer has assumed that each of the holders of Wyeth $2 Convertible Preferred Stock elected to convert all of their shares into Wyeth common stock.
6
 
 
 
The merger has been approved by Wyeth stockholders, all required regulatory agencies and Pfizer has completed the financing for the merger.  The merger is subject to usual and customary closing conditions. The merger is expected to be completed early in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
2.  
Basis of Presentation
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and was based on the historical financial statements of Pfizer and Wyeth. For ease of reference, all pro forma statements use Pfizers period-end date and no adjustments were made to Wyeths reported information for its different quarter-end date. Certain reclassifications have been made to the historical financial statements of Wyeth to conform with Pfizers presentation, primarily related to the presentation of amortization expense of intangible assets, acquisition-related in-process research and development charges, restructuring charges, net interest income, noncontrolling interests, accrued compensation-related liabilities and noncurrent tax liabilities. Included in Wyeths restructuring charges of $467 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 is a net gain on the sale of a manufacturing facility in Japan of $105 million.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any divestitures that may be required by regulatory agencies in connection with their approval of Pfizers pending acquisition of Wyeth.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared under existing U.S. GAAP standards, which are subject to change and interpretation.
 
The acquisition method of accounting under existing U.S. GAAP standards requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date and that the fair value of acquired in-process research and development be recorded on the balance sheet regardless of the likelihood of success as of the acquisition date.  In addition, the consideration transferred is to be measured at the closing date of the merger at the then-current market price; this particular requirement will likely result in a per share equity component that is different from the amount assumed in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 
Fair value is defined under existing U.S. GAAP standards as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. This is an exit price concept for the valuation of the asset or liability. In addition, market participants are assumed to be buyers and sellers in the principal (or the most advantageous) market for the asset or liability. Fair value measurements for an asset assume the highest and best use by these market participants. As a result, Pfizer may be required to record assets which are not intended to be used or sold and/or to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect Pfizers intended use of those assets. Many of these fair value measurements can be highly subjective and it is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts.
 
Accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be recorded as of the completion of the merger, primarily at their respective fair values and added to those of Pfizer. Financial statements and reported results of operations of Pfizer issued after completion of the merger will reflect these values, but will not be retroactively restated to reflect the historical financial position or results of operations of Wyeth.
 
Acquisition-related transaction costs (i.e., advisory, legal, valuation, other professional fees) and certain acquisition-related restructuring charges impacting the target company are not included as a component of consideration transferred but are accounted for as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred. Total advisory, legal,
regulatory and valuation costs expected to be incurred by Pfizer are estimated to be approximately $170 million, of which Pfizer estimates $41 million has been paid in the six months ended June 28, 2009, and are reflected in these
unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements as a reduction to cash and retained earnings. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect any restructuring and integration charges expected to be incurred in connection with the merger but these charges are expected to be in the range of approximately $6 to $8 billion. These costs will be expensed as incurred. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect anticipated acquisition-related transaction costs to be incurred by Wyeth, which are estimated to be approximately $135 million.
7
 
 
 
3.      
Accounting Policies
 
Upon consummation of the merger, Pfizer will continue the review of Wyeths accounting policies. As a result of that review, Pfizer may identify differences between the accounting policies of the two companies that, when conformed, could have a material impact on the combined financial statements. At this time, Pfizer is not aware of any differences that would have a material impact on the combined financial statements. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not assume any differences in accounting policies.
 
4.      
Estimate of Consideration Expected to be Transferred
 
The following is a preliminary estimate of consideration expected to be transferred to effect the acquisition of Wyeth:
 
Certain amounts may reflect rounding adjustments.
 
 
8
 
 
 
5.      
Estimate of Assets to be Acquired and Liabilities to be Assumed
 
A preliminary estimate of the assets to be acquired and the liabilities to be assumed by Pfizer in the merger, reconciled to the estimate of consideration expected to be transferred is provided below.  The final valuation of net assets acquired is expected to be completed as soon as possible after the acquisition date.
 
9
(a)
 
As of the effective time of the merger, inventories are required to be measured at fair value, which Pfizer believes will approximate net realizable value.
 
Pfizer has information at this time as to the nature of the inventory only as of a preliminary date, such as specific finished goods on hand, the actual stage of completion of work-in-progress inventories or the specific types and nature of raw materials and supplies and this preliminary information may not be reflective of the nature, amount and type of inventory on hand as of the acquisition date.
 
For purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, a fair value adjustment to inventory has been estimated by obtaining, to the extent permitted, a high-level understanding of the nature, amount and type of Wyeth inventory as of March 31, 2009.  The estimated step-up is preliminary, subject to change and could vary materially from the actual step-up calculated after the effective date of the merger.  In addition, Pfizer also compared the preliminary estimate to other transactions within the industry and found the results to be within a reasonable range.  Given the typical margins expected of a pharmaceutical product, Pfizer believes including a fair value step-up adjustment for inventory is factually supportable and provides a reasonable indication of the adjustment that is likely to occur.
 
Because Pfizer has limited access to Wyeth information until the effective date of the merger and because fair value will have to be calculated for inventory existing as of the effective date of the merger, for purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, the estimated fair value adjustment to inventory is preliminary and subject to change once additional information becomes available to Pfizer after consummation of the merger, and could vary materially from the actual fair value adjustment calculated as of the effective date of the merger.  However, Pfizer believes, to the best of its knowledge, that the estimates are reasonable estimates of fair value at the time this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared.
 
 
 
As of the effective time of the merger, property, plant and equipment is required to be measured at fair value, unless those assets are classified as held-for-sale on the acquisition date. Fair value can be determined in a variety ways depending on the nature of the asset and the quality of available information, but, generally, land is valued by referencing relevant sales transactions of comparable property and all other property, plant and equipment assets are measured by determining the cost to replace the asset with another asset of similar utility, with the income approach and/or market approach used where possible for validation.
 
Pfizer has only preliminary information at this time as to the specific nature, age, condition or location of the land, buildings, machinery and equipment, and construction-in-progress, as applicable, and Pfizer does not know the appropriate valuation premise, value-in-use or value-in-exchange, as the valuation premise requires a
certain level of knowledge about the assets being evaluated as well as a profile of the associated market participants. All of these elements can cause differences between fair value and net book value.
10
 
 
 
For purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, a fair value adjustment to property, plant and equipment has been estimated by obtaining, to the extent permitted, a high-level understanding of the nature, amount and type of Wyeth property, plant and equipment as of March 31, 2009 and using a value-in-use valuation premise.  The estimated step-up and estimated useful lives are preliminary, subject to change and could vary materially from the actual step-up calculated and useful lives determined after the effective date of the merger.  In addition, Pfizer also compared the preliminary estimate to other transactions within the industry and found the results to be within a reasonable range.
 
Because Pfizer has limited access to Wyeth information until the effective date of the merger, for purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, the estimated fair value adjustment to property, plant and equipment and the estimated useful lives are preliminary, subject to change once additional information becomes available to Pfizer after consummation of the merger, and could vary materially from the actual fair value adjustment calculated and the useful life determined as of the effective date of the merger.owever, Pfizer believes, to the best of its knowledge, that the estimates are reasonable estimates of fair value and useful life at the time this unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared.
  H
 
 
 
 
As of the effective time of the merger, identifiable intangible assets are required to be measured at fair value and these acquired assets could include assets that are not intended to be used or sold or that are intended to be used in a manner other than their highest and best use. For purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, it is assumed that all assets will be used and that all assets will be used in a manner that represents the highest and best use of those assets, but it is not assumed that any market participant synergies will be achieved. The consideration of synergies has been excluded because they are not considered to be factually supportable, which is a required condition for these pro forma adjustments.
 
The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is determined primarily using the income method, which starts with a forecast of all the expected future net cash flows. Under the Hart-Scott-Rodino-Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and other relevant laws and regulations, there are significant limitations regarding what Pfizer can learn about the specifics of the Wyeth intangible assets and any such process will take several months to complete. It is estimated that the number of distinct intangible assets acquired could be in excess of one hundred.
11
 
 
 
At this time, Pfizer does not have complete information as to the amount, timing and risk of cash flows of all of these intangible assets, particularly those assets still in the research and development phase. Some of the more
significant assumptions inherent in the development of intangible asset values, from the perspective of a market participant, include: the amount and timing of projected future cash flows (including revenue, cost of sales, research and development costs, sales and marketing expenses, and working capital/contributory asset charges); the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; and the assessment of the assets life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, as well as other factors. However, for purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, and using information to which we were granted access as well as publicly available information, such as historical product revenues, Wyeths cost structure, and certain other high-level assumptions, Pfizer believes the preliminary estimates of fair value of the identifiable intangible assets and their weighted-average useful lives provide a reasonable indication of the adjustment that is likely to occur.
 
These preliminary estimates of fair value and weighted-average useful life will likely be different from the final acquisition accounting, and the difference could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited
pro forma condensed combined financial statements. Once Pfizer has full access to the specifics of the Wyeth intangible assets, additional insight will be gained that could impact (i) the estimated total value assigned to intangible assets, (ii) the estimated allocation of value between finite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or (iii) the estimated weighted-average useful life of each category of intangible assets. The estimated intangible asset values and their useful lives could be impacted by a variety of factors that may become known to Pfizer only upon access to additional information and/or by changes in such factors that may occur prior to the effective time of the merger. These factors include but are not limited to the regulatory, legislative, legal, technological and competitive environments. Increased knowledge about these and/or other elements could result in a change to the estimated fair value of the Wyeth intangible assets and/or to the
estimated weighted-average useful lives from what we have assumed in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The combined effect of any such changes could then also result in a significant increase or decrease to our estimate of associated amortization expense.
 
 
 
Pfizer believes that a fair value will be determinable for many of the environmental matters and does not expect those adjustments to be significant.  With respect to legal contingencies, the access to information has been more limited and Pfizer does not have sufficient information at this time to evaluate if the fair value of these contingencies can be determined and, if determinable, to value them under a fair value standard. A fair valuation effort would require intimate knowledge of complex legal matters and associated defense strategies, which cannot occur prior to the effective time of the merger. If fair value cannot be determined for Wyeths contingencies, the combined company would continue to account for the Wyeth contingencies under the same probable and estimable standard currently being used by Wyeth, as required. Since Wyeths current accounting approach is subject to external audit and as Wyeth management, unlike Pfizer management, has full and complete access to relevant information about these contingencies, Pfizer believes that it has no basis for modifying Wyeths current application of these standards.  Accordingly, for the purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, Pfizer has not adjusted the Wyeth book values. This approach is preliminary and subject to change.
 
In addition, Wyeth has recorded provisions for uncertain tax positions. As disclosed in Wyeths 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, these assessments involve complex judgments
about future events and rely on estimates and assumptions by management. Income taxes are exceptions to both the recognition and fair value measurement principles under the acquisition method of accounting and
they continue to be accounted for under the asset recognition model currently being used by Wyeth, as required. Since Wyeths current accounting approach is subject to external audit and as Wyeth management, unlike Pfizer management, has full and complete access to relevant information about these tax positions, Pfizer believes that it has no basis for modifying Wyeths current application of these standards. Accordingly, for the purpose of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, Pfizer has not adjusted the Wyeth book values. This assessment is preliminary and subject to change.
 
12
 
 
 
 
The pro forma adjustment to record the effect of deferred taxes and other tax adjustments was computed as follows:
 
Certain amounts may reflect rounding adjustments.
 
 
 
13
 
 
6.      
Pro Forma Adjustments
 
This note should be read in conjunction with ; ; and . Adjustments included in the column under the heading Pro Forma Adjustments represent the following:
Note 1. Description of Transaction
Note 2. Basis of Presentation
Note 4. Estimate of Consideration Expected to
be Transferred;
Note 5. Estimate of Assets to be Acquired and Liabilities to
be Assumed
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
Pfizer has assumed a 39% tax rate when estimating the tax impacts of the additional expense on incremental debt to finance the merger because the debt is an obligation of a U.S. entity and taxed at the estimated combined effective U.S. federal statutory and state rate. Except for those tax impacts related to the incremental debt incurred to finance the merger, Pfizer has generally assumed a blended 30% tax rate when estimating the tax impacts of the acquisition, representing a weighted-average estimate of the statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions where these adjustments are reasonably expected to occur. Pfizer believes that including an estimated blended tax rate is factually supportable in that it is derived from statutory rates and recognizes that Wyeth is a large multinational corporation with operations in most countries of the world. The effective tax rate and tax accounts in the balance sheet of the combined company could be significantly different (either higher or lower) depending on post acquisition activities, including repatriation decisions, cash needs as well as geographical mix of income.
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect anticipated acquisition-related transaction costs to be incurred by Wyeth, which are estimated to be approximately $135 million.
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not present a combined dividend per share amount. On June 25, 2009, Pfizer declared a third quarter 2009 dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, which was paid on September 2, 2009.  On June 2, 2009, Pfizer paid a second quarter 2009 dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock. On March 3, 2009, Pfizer paid a first quarter 2009 dividend of $0.32 per share of common stock. In January 2009, Pfizer announced that, effective with the dividend to be paid in the second quarter of 2009, its quarterly dividend per share of common stock will be reduced to $0.16 ($0.80 per share of common stock annualized for 2009). Following the first quarter of 2009, Pfizer will not declare or pay a quarterly dividend in excess of $0.16 per share of common stock prior to consummation of the merger and any future payment of Pfizers quarterly dividend is subject to future approval and declaration by the Pfizer board of directors. On June 11, 2009, Wyeth declared a third quarter 2009 dividend of $0.30 per share of common stock, which was paid on September 1, 2009.  On June 1, 2009, Wyeth paid a second quarter 2009 dividend of $0.30 per share of common stock. On March 2, 2009, Wyeth paid a first quarter dividend of $0.30 per share of common stock ($1.20 per share of common stock annualized). Wyeth will not declare or pay a quarterly dividend in excess of $0.30 per share of common stock prior to consummation of the merger and any future payment of Wyeths quarterly dividend is subject to future approval and declaration by the Wyeth board of directors. The dividend policy of Pfizer following the merger will be determined by the Pfizer board of directors following the merger.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined basic and diluted earnings per share for the period presented are based on the combined basic and diluted weighted-average shares. The historical basic and diluted weighted average shares of Wyeth were assumed to be replaced by the shares expected to be issued by Pfizer to effect the merger.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect the expected realization of annual cost savings of $4 billion by 2012. These savings are expected in selling, informational and administrative functions, research and development and manufacturing. Although Pfizer management expects that cost savings will result
from the merger, there can be no assurance that these cost savings will be achieved. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect estimated restructuring and integration charges associated with the expected cost savings, which could be in the range of approximately $6 to $8 billion and which will be expensed as incurred.
7.      
Forward-looking Statements
 
These Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are typically identified by the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate" and similar expressions. 
Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the pending merger between Pfizer and Wyeth, including future financial and operating results, the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
These forward-looking statements are based largely on management's expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.  Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.  Neither Pfizer nor Wyeth undertake any obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.  The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the possibility that the expected synergies from the pending merger of Pfizer and Wyeth will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period, due to, among other things, the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and pending legislation that could affect the pharmaceutical industry; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the possibility that the merger does not close, including,
but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions; Pfizer's and Wyeth's ability to accurately predict future market conditions; dependence on the effectiveness of Pfizer's and Wyeth's patents and other protections for innovative products; the risk of new and changing regulation and health policies in the U.S. and internationally and the exposure to litigation and/or regulatory actions.  Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Pfizer's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on February 27, 2009, Wyeth's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009, as amended on April 30, 2009, included in the Risk Factors section of each of these filings, and each company's other filings with the SEC available at the SEC's Internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
 
18

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated condensed financial statements.
3
 
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated condensed financial statements.
4
 
 
Six Months Ended June 30, 2009:
 
 
- Common stock cash dividend of $0.30 per share ($400,250 in the aggregate) declared on June 11, 2009 and payable on September 1, 2009; and
- Preferred stock cash dividends of $0.50 per share ($3 in the aggregate) declared on April 23, 2009 and paid on July 1, 2009.
 
- Common stock cash dividend of $0.28 per share ($373,310 in the aggregate) declared on June 26, 2008 and payable on September 2, 2008; and
- Preferred stock cash dividends of $0.50 per share ($5 in the aggregate) declared on June 26, 2008 and payable on October 1, 2008.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated condensed financial statements.
5
 
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated condensed financial statements.
6
 
 
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards:
 
In April 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 141(R)-1, Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies (FSP 141(R)-1). FSP 141(R)-1 requires contingencies acquired in a business combination accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141(R) Business Combinations, to be recorded at acquisition date fair value, if determinable. If the fair value cannot be determined, an entity is required to follow existing guidance in SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and FASB Interpretation No. 14, Reasonable Estimation of a Loss. FSP 141(R)-1 also requires additional disclosures of the contingencies recognized at acquisition, including the nature of the contingency, the amount recognized and the measurement basis used. FSP 141(R)-1 is effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company has not had any business combinations since the effective date of FSP 141(R)-1 but will comply with the requirements when applicable.
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 165, Subsequent Events (SFAS No. 165). SFAS No. 165 defines subsequent events and requires an entity to evaluate events that occur after the balance sheet date but before its financial statements are either issued or are available to be issued for possible measurement and recognition as of the balance sheet date. SFAS No. 165 also requires the disclosure of the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated, as well as a pro forma disclosure of the financial statement effect of a nonrecognized subsequent event if material to the reporting entity. SFAS No. 165 is effective prospectively for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company has adopted SFAS No. 165 beginning with the 2009 second quarter.
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS No. 166). SFAS No. 166 eliminates the Qualifying Special Purpose Entity concept, amends the guidance entities use when determining whether a transfer of a financial asset qualifies as a sale, and requires that a transferor of a financial asset initially record beneficial interests received pursuant to the transfer at fair value. SFAS No. 166 also requires additional disclosures detailing the relationship between a transferor and transferee, including any continued financial interests retained by the transferor subsequent to a transfer of assets. SFAS No. 166 is effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The Company currently is assessing the impact of SFAS No. 166 on its consolidated financial position and results of operations.
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (SFAS No. 167). SFAS No. 167 amends the consolidation guidance for Variable Interest Entities (VIE), including requiring an ongoing qualitative assessment of the primary beneficiary of a VIE, the removal of the Qualifying Special Purpose Entity scope exception from FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), and amending guidance on determining an entitys status as a VIE. SFAS No. 167 is effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The Company currently is assessing the impact of SFAS No. 167 on its consolidated financial position and results of operations.
 
7
 
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS No. 168). SFAS No. 168 replaces SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as the source of authoritative Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), in addition to the rules and interpretative releases of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as they apply to SEC registrants. SFAS No. 168 separates existing accounting guidance as either authoritative or nonauthoritative and applies to financial statements of all nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with GAAP. SFAS No. 168 is effective for all financial statements issued after September 15, 2009, including those issued in interim periods. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of SFAS No. 168 will have a material effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.
TM
 
 
In December 2007, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 07-1, Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements (EITF 07-1). EITF 07-1 provides guidance for determining if a collaborative arrangement exists and establishes procedures for reporting revenue and costs generated from transactions with third parties, as well as between the parties within the collaborative arrangement, and provides guidance for financial statement disclosures of collaborative arrangements. EITF 07-1 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2009. The following are collaborative arrangements that are significant to the Company:
 
 
 
The Company also has numerous other collaborative arrangements, none of which are individually or in the aggregate significant.
 
8
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the June 30, 2008 consolidated condensed financial statements and accompanying notes to conform with the June 30, 2009 presentation.
Reclassifications:
 
 
The following table sets forth the computations of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share:
 
 
 
 
On July 15, 2009, $765.1 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2024 (the Convertible Debentures) were validly tendered and accepted for purchase at par value. The Convertible Debentures were tendered to the Company pursuant to the put option contained in the Convertible Debentures and represented approximately 97.1 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Convertible Debentures at the time of purchase.
 
9
 
 
On July 15, 2009, the Company redeemed all of its outstanding $2 convertible preferred stock. The redemption price for each share was $60.08, which included an amount equal to all accrued but unpaid dividends up to, and including, the redemption date. Each share of convertible preferred stock was convertible into 36 shares of common stock, and holders could elect to convert all, or a portion of, their convertible preferred stock into Wyeth common stock at any time prior to the close of business on the redemption date. This redemption was made at Pfizers request pursuant to the merger agreement with Pfizer.
 
 
Net periodic benefit cost for the Companys defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:
 
 
During the six months ended June 30, 2009, contributions of $70.8 million were made to the Companys defined benefit pension plans, and payments of $47.2 million were made for other postretirement benefits. The Company expects to contribute for the 2009 full year approximately $450.0 million to its defined benefit pension plans and make payments of approximately $103.0 million for its other postretirement benefit plans.
 
10
 
 
The carrying cost, gross unrealized gains (losses) and fair value of available-for-sale securities by major security type at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 were as follows:
 
 
The following table summarizes the Companys marketable securities at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 that have been in an unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and those that have been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more:
 
 
11
 
 
 
The Company has determined that the marketable securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more are not other than temporarily impaired because the Company does not have the intent to sell these marketable securities and has the ability to hold the marketable securities until maturity.
 
The Companys net realized losses on its investments for the three months ended June 30, 2009 were $2.3 million, and for the six months ended June 30, 2009, the Company had net realized gains of $4.3 million. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, net realized losses on the Companys investments were $26.3 million and $30.2 million, respectively.
 
The contractual maturities of debt securities classified as available-for-sale at June 30, 2009 were as follows:
 
 
The Company monitors its investments with counterparties with the objective of minimizing concentrations of credit risk. The Companys investment policy places limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any individual institution. The policy also requires that investments are made only with highly rated corporate and financial institutions.
 
In April 2009, FASB issued FSP FAS No. 115-2 and FAS 124-2, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments (FSP FAS 115-2), which amended the existing guidance on determining whether an impairment for investments in debt securities is other than temporary. The new guidance was effective for the Companys 2009 second quarter. FSP FAS 115-2 required a reclassification upon adoption to retained earnings with a corresponding offset to accumulated other comprehensive income for the portion of other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) recorded in earnings in previous periods on securities in the Companys portfolio at March 31, 2009 that were related to factors other than credit and would not have been required to be recognized in earnings had the new guidance been effective for those periods. The reclassification for the initial adoption of FSP FAS 115-2 was not material to the Company and, therefore, was not recorded.
 
12
 
 
The following table presents a roll forward for the three months ended June 30, 2009 of the credit-related loss on debt securities that have been written down for other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) for which the credit loss component has been recognized in earnings.
 
 
 
The Company uses the following methods for determining fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. For assets and liabilities that are measured using quoted prices in active markets for the identical asset or liability, the total fair value is the published market price per unit multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs (Level 1). Assets and liabilities that are measured using significant other observable inputs are valued by reference to similar assets or liabilities, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data (Level 2). For all remaining assets and liabilities for which there are no significant observable inputs, fair value is derived using an assessment of various discount rates, default risk, credit quality and the overall capital market liquidity (Level 3).
 
13
 
 
The following table summarizes the basis used to measure certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheet:
 
 
The following table presents the changes in fair value for assets that have no significant observable inputs (Level 3):
 
 
As of June 30, 2009, the Companys long-term debt had a carrying value of $11,468.7 million and a fair value of $11,795.6 million.
 
14
 
 
 
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 requires entities to provide enhanced disclosure about how and why the entity uses derivative instruments, how the instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133), and how the instruments and related hedged items affect the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the entity. The Company adopted SFAS No. 161 during the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
 
The Company manages its exposure to certain market risks, including foreign exchange and interest rate risks, through the use of derivative financial instruments. On the date that the Company enters into a derivative contract, it designates the derivative as either a:
 
(1) Fair Value Hedge. For derivative contracts that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, the derivative instrument is marked-to-market with gains and losses recognized in current period earnings to offset the respective losses and gains recognized on the underlying exposure. The Companys interest rate swaps, which are composed of fixed-to-floating rate interest rate swaps, qualify as fair value hedges. In April 2009, the Company discontinued the $5,000.0 million notional amount of interest rate swap contracts, which were used to manage exposures to changes in interest rates. As a result of this transaction, the Company received cash of $383.6 million and recorded a deferred gain (reflected in current and long-term debt, as appropriate), which will be amortized against interest expense over the remaining term of the underlying debt instruments; or
 
(2) Foreign Currency Cash Flow Hedge. SFAS No. 133 requires that the Company perform periodic assessments of hedge effectiveness. The Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis thereafter, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. For derivative contracts that are designated and qualify as foreign currency cash flow hedges, the effective portion of gains and losses on these contracts is reported as a component of  (AOCI) and reclassified into earnings in the same period the hedged transaction affects earnings. Any hedge ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges is immediately recognized in earnings. Ineffectiveness is minimized through the proper relationship of the hedging derivative contract with the hedged item. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, there was no hedge ineffectiveness recorded in the consolidated condensed statements of operations. The Company uses foreign currency option and forward contracts in its cash flow hedging program to partially cover foreign currency risk related to international intercompany inventory sales. The unrealized net gains or losses in  on these cash flow hedges will be reclassified into the consolidated condensed statement of operations when the inventory is sold to a third party, generally three months after the expiration of the option or forward contract. Option and forward contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2009 expire no later than December 2009.
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
 
The Company also uses short-term foreign currency forward contracts and swap contracts as economic hedges to neutralize month-end balance sheet exposures. These contracts are not designated as hedging instruments. The contracts take the opposite currency position of the underlying exposure in the month-end balance sheet to counterbalance the effect of any currency movement and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated condensed balance sheet, with the gain or loss recognized in current period earnings.
 
15
 
 
The cash flows from each of the Companys derivative contracts are reflected as operating activities in the consolidated condensed statements of cash flows. The Company does not hold any derivative instruments for trading purposes.
 
The fair value of foreign currency forward and option contracts and interest rate swaps reflects the present value of the contracts, taking into consideration counterparty credit risk, at June 30, 2009 and 2008.
 
The following table summarizes the balance sheet locations and fair values of the Companys derivative financial instruments as of June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
16
 
 
The following tables summarize the effect of derivative instruments on the Companys consolidated condensed statements of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
17
 
 
 
Credit Risk of Derivatives
 
The use of derivative instruments exposes the Company to credit risk. If the counterparty fails to perform, the credit risk is equal to the Companys fair value gain, if any, in the derivative. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is positive, this generally indicates that the counterparty owes the Company and, therefore, creates a credit risk for the Company. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is negative, the Company owes the counterparty and may be required to post collateral to one or more counterparties equal to the liability. The Company seeks to minimize the credit risk in derivative instruments by entering into transactions with reputable broker-dealers (financial institutions) that are reviewed periodically by the Company with the objective of minimizing credit risk. The Company has a policy of diversifying derivatives counterparties to mitigate the overall risk of counterparty defaults.
 
18
 
 
 
During the 2009 first half, the Company continued to implement productivity initiatives and realize the benefits of Project Impact. Prior to 2008, the Company had other global productivity initiatives in place.
 
The Company recorded the following charges related to its productivity initiatives for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
 
 
The net productivity initiatives charges were recorded as follows:
 
 
19
 
 
Net productivity initiatives charges are recorded in the Corporate segment. The following table sets forth net productivity initiatives charges as they relate to the Companys reportable segments:
 
 
The following table summarizes the net productivity initiatives charges, payments made and the reserve balance at June 30, 2009:
 
 
At June 30, 2009, the reserve balance for personnel costs related primarily to committed employee severance obligations and other employee-related costs associated with the Companys productivity initiatives. These amounts are expected to be paid over the next 24 months. It is expected that additional costs will be incurred under the Companys productivity initiatives over the next several years.
 
20
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the components and classification of stock-based compensation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
In connection with the Companys merger agreement with Pfizer, the Company agreed that in lieu of granting equity-based long-term incentive awards for 2009, it would grant long-term incentive awards settled in cash. In February 2009, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Companys Board of Directors adopted, and the Companys Board of Directors ratified the adoption of, the Wyeth 2009 Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan, which provides for the grant of cash-settled awards to eligible employees in an amount not to exceed $300 million in the aggregate. These awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to acceleration in the event of a qualifying termination of employment following a change in control. These awards are not stock-based compensation and, therefore, are not reflected in the table above.
 
 
Taxing authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of reviewing the Companys tax returns. Except for the California Franchise Tax Board, where the Company has filed protests for the 1996-2003 tax years, taxing authorities are generally reviewing the Companys tax returns for post-2001 tax years, including the Internal Revenue Service, which has begun its audit of the Companys tax returns for the 2002-2005 tax years. Certain of these taxing authorities are examining tax positions associated with the Companys cross-border arrangements. While the Company believes that these tax positions are appropriate and that its reserves are adequate with respect to such positions, it is possible that one or more taxing authorities will propose adjustments in excess of such reserves and that conclusion of these audits will result in adjustments in excess of such reserves. An unfavorable resolution for open tax years could have a material effect on the Companys results of operations or cash flows in the period in which an adjustment is recorded and in future periods. The Company believes that an unfavorable resolution for open tax years would not be material to the financial position of the Company; however, each year, the Company records significant tax benefits with respect to its cross-border arrangements, and, therefore, the possibility of a resolution that is material to the financial position of the Company cannot be excluded.
 
21
 
 
 
The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, including product liability, patent, commercial, environmental and antitrust matters, of a nature considered normal to its business, the most important of which are described below and/or have been described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report as incorporated in its 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K (referred to as the Companys 2008 Financial Report) and/or the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and an amount is reasonably estimable. Additionally, the Company records insurance receivable amounts from third-party insurers when recovery is probable.
 
Like many pharmaceutical companies in the current legal environment, the Company is involved in legal proceedings, including product liability litigation, patent litigation, and suits and investigations relating to, among other things, pricing practices and promotional activities brought by governments and private payors, which are significant to its business, are complex in nature and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert managements attention, may adversely affect the Companys reputation and demand for its products, and may result in significant damages. Patent litigation, if resolved unfavorably, can injure the Companys business by subjecting the Companys products to earlier than expected generic competition and also can give rise to payment of significant damages or restrictions on the Companys future ability to operate its business. Investigations and/or suits brought by governments and/or private payors, regardless of their merits, are costly, divert managements attention, and may adversely affect the Companys reputation and demand for its products and, if resolved unfavorably, result in significant payments of fines or damages.
 
The Company intends to vigorously defend itself and its products in the litigation described below and in its prior filings and believes its legal positions are strong. However, from time to time, the Company may settle or decide no longer to pursue particular litigation as it deems advisable. In light of the circumstances discussed above, it is not possible to determine the ultimate outcome of the Companys legal proceedings, and, therefore, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings could be material to the Companys results of operations, cash flows and financial position.
 
The following presents certain recent developments concerning the Companys legal proceedings and should be read in conjunction with the Companys prior reports, including the Companys 2008 Financial Report and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter.
 
22
 
 
Product Liability Litigation
 
Diet Drug Litigation
 
The litigation against the Company alleging that the Companys former weight loss products, and/or, caused certain serious conditions, including valvular heart disease and primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH), is described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter. Total diet drug litigation payments were $44.3 million and $97.3 million for the 2009 second quarter and 2009 first half, respectively, of which $12.9 million and $27.1 million, respectively, were made in connection with the nationwide settlement. Payments under the nationwide settlement may continue, if necessary, until 2018.
REDUX
PONDIMIN
 
As of June 30, 2009, the Company was a defendant in approximately 35 pending lawsuits in which the plaintiff alleges a claim of PPH, alone or with other alleged injuries. During the course of settlement discussions, certain plaintiffs attorneys have informed the Company that they represent additional individuals who claim to have PPH, but the Company is unable to evaluate whether any such additional purported cases of PPH would meet the nationwide settlement agreements definition of PPH, a precondition to maintaining such a lawsuit. The Company continues to work toward resolving the claims of individuals who allege that they have developed PPH as a result of their use of the diet drugs and intends to vigorously defend those PPH cases that cannot be resolved prior to trial.
 
The Company has taken charges in connection with the and diet drug matters, which to date total $21,100.0 million. The $993.9 million reserve balance at June 30, 2009 represents managements best estimate, within a range of outcomes, of the aggregate amount required to cover diet drug litigation costs, including payments in connection with the nationwide settlement, claims asserted by opt outs from the nationwide settlement, PPH claims and the Companys legal fees related to the diet drug litigation. It is possible that additional reserves may be required in the future, although the Company does not believe that the amount of any such additional reserves is likely to be material.
REDUX
PONDIMIN
 
Hormone Therapy Litigation
 
The litigation against the Company alleging injury as a result of the plaintiffs use of one or more of the Companys hormone or estrogen therapy products, including  and , is described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter. As of June 30, 2009, the Company was defending approximately 8,200 actions brought on behalf of approximately 9,900 women in various federal and state courts throughout the United States (including, in particular, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas and the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County) for personal injuries, including claims for breast cancer, stroke, ovarian cancer and heart disease, allegedly resulting from their use of  or ..
  PREMARIN
  PREMPRO
PREMARIN
  PREMPRO
 
23
 
 
Of the 31 hormone therapy cases alleging breast cancer that have been resolved after being set for trial, 23 now have been resolved in the Companys favor (by voluntary dismissal by the plaintiffs (14), summary judgment (5), defense verdict (3) or judgment for the Company notwithstanding the verdict (1)), several of which are being appealed by the plaintiffs. Of the remaining eight cases: five such cases have been settled; one resulted in a plaintiffs verdict that was vacated by the court and a new trial ordered (which plaintiffs have appealed); and two (  and ) resulted in plaintiffs verdicts that the Company is appealing. One case, , that had been resolved in the Companys favor by summary judgment was affirmed in part and reversed in part on appeal and, accordingly, has been excluded from the preceding summary as this case will go back to trial. Additional cases have been voluntarily dismissed by plaintiffs before a trial setting.
Rowatt
  Scroggin
  Brockert
 
Additional trials of hormone therapy cases are scheduled for 2009. Individual trial results depend on a variety of factors, including many that are unique to the particular case, and the Companys trial results to date, therefore, may not be predictive of future trial results.
 
As the Company has not determined that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and an amount is reasonably estimable, the Company has not established any litigation accrual for its hormone therapy litigation. As of June 30, 2009, the Company has recorded $202.0 million in insurance receivables relating to defense and settlement costs of its hormone therapy litigation. The insurance carriers that provide coverage that the Company contends is applicable have either denied coverage or have reserved their rights with respect to such coverage. The Company believes that the denials of coverage are improper and intends to enforce its rights under the terms of those policies.
 
Patent Litigation
 
ENBREL
Litigation
 
As previously described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware entered a final judgment in favor of Amgen that  does not infringe ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc.s U.S. Patent No. 6,410,516. On June 1, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision.
  ENBREL
 
PROTONIX
Litigation
 
In the ongoing litigation described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter relating to generic versions of  tablets, on May 14, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the decision of the District Court denying the Companys and Nycomed GmbHs (Nycomed) request for a preliminary injunction. A trial on the liability (non-damages) issues in this litigation could occur prior to the end of 2009.
  PROTONIX
 
In a letter dated July 3, 2009, Apotex Inc. (Apotex) notified the Company and Nycomed that it has filed a Paragraph IV certification seeking approval to market a generic version of  20 mg and 40 mg tablets before the expiration of the  compound
  PROTONIX
  PROTONIX
 
24
 
 
patent (U.S. Patent No. 4,758,579), the same patent at issue in the litigation against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., Sun Pharmaceutical Advanced Research Centre Ltd. and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (collectively, Sun) and KUDCO Ireland, Ltd. described above. The Company and Nycomed intend to initiate suit against Apotex.
 
The Company has dismissed cases brought against certain generic companies that have filed applications seeking to market generic pantoprazole sodium 40 mg base/vial I.V. in the United States. Those cases involved only the listed formulation patents for ..
  PROTONIX
 
EFFEXOR
Litigation
 
As described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter, the Company has settled several patent infringement lawsuits relating to generic capsule versions of  (extended release capsules). A number of such lawsuits remain pending. In each of these cases, a generic manufacturer filed an application seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval to market extended release venlafaxine capsules in the United States prior to the expiration of the Companys three issued U.S. patents relating to extended release venlafaxine formulations and their use. In each of the cases that have been settled, the Company has granted the generic manufacturer a license to these patents permitting it to market a generic capsule version of  (extended release capsules) on negotiated dates prior to the expiration of these patents.
  EFFEXOR XR
  EFFEXOR XR
 
On May 18, 2009, pursuant to a settlement agreement between the parties, the United States District Court for the Central District of California entered a consent judgment and dismissed the lawsuit filed by the Company against Wockhardt Limited (Wockhardt), alleging that the filing by Wockhardt of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) seeking FDA approval to market extended release venlafaxine capsules infringes the same three patents discussed above. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company has granted Wockhardt a license to these same patents permitting it to market its generic capsule version of  (extended release capsules) on or after June 1, 2012, subject to earlier launch in limited circumstances but in no event earlier than January 1, 2011. In connection with the license, Wockhardt will pay the Company a specified percentage of profit from sales of its generic product.
  EFFEXOR XR
 
25
 
 
The seven lawsuits relating to generic capsule versions of (extended release capsules) that remain pending are summarized in the following table:
EFFEXOR XR
 
 
*     Stay could terminate upon an earlier court decision holding the patents at issue invalid or not infringed.
 
26
 
 
Commercial Litigation
 
-
Merger
Related Litigation
 
As described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter and in the proxy statement/prospectus for the Companys 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, purported class actions were commenced by the Companys stockholders in the Delaware Court of Chancery (the Delaware Action) and in federal and state court in New Jersey against the Company and members of its Board of Directors seeking to rescind the Companys merger agreement with Pfizer. On June 10, 2009, the Company, the
Companys directors and Pfizer entered into a memorandum of understanding with the plaintiffs in the Delaware Action reflecting an agreement in principle to settle the Delaware Action based on an agreement by the Company and its directors to include in the proxy statement/prospectus relating to the merger certain additional disclosures relating to the transaction. The Company, its directors and Pfizer each have denied, and continue to deny, that they have committed or aided and abetted the commission of any violation of law or engaged in any of the wrongful acts alleged in the Delaware Action, and expressly maintain that they diligently and scrupulously complied with their fiduciary and other legal duties. The Company, its directors and Pfizer believe the Delaware Action is without merit, and they entered into the memorandum of understanding solely to avoid the risk of delaying the merger and to minimize the expense of litigation. The memorandum of understanding is subject to customary conditions including completion of appropriate settlement documentation, completion of due diligence to confirm the fairness of the settlement, approval by the Delaware Court of Chancery, and consummation of the merger.
 
If the settlement is consummated, the Delaware Action will be dismissed with prejudice and the defendants and other released persons will receive from or on behalf of all persons and entities who held the Companys common stock at any time from January 26, 2009 through the date of consummation of the merger a release of all claims relating to the merger, the merger agreement and the transactions contemplated therein, and the disclosures made in connection therewith (including the claims asserted in the lawsuits filed in New Jersey state and federal courts). Members of the purported plaintiff class will be sent notice of the proposed settlement, and a hearing before the Delaware Court of Chancery will be scheduled regarding, among other things, approval of the proposed settlement and any application by plaintiffs counsel for an award of attorneys fees and expenses.
 
Average Wholesale Price Litigation
 
In the litigation, described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter, in which plaintiffs allege that the Company and other defendant pharmaceutical companies artificially inflated the Average Wholesale Price (AWP) of their drugs, which allegedly resulted in overpayment by, among others, Medicare and Medicare beneficiaries and state Medicaid plans, two of the pending AWP cases have been dismissed. , No. CV2002-004988, Sup. Ct., Maricopa Cty., AZ, a putative state-wide class action pending in Arizona, has been dismissed on summary judgment because the sole named plaintiff and class representative used only one drug, Lupron (a drug not manufactured or sold by the Company), and the defendants were able to show that the plaintiff never purchased the drug based on an inflated AWP. In ., No. 05CH0274, Cir. Ct., Cook Cty., IL, the plaintiff State of Illinois has agreed to the dismissal without prejudice of the case against the Company.
  Swanston v. TAP Pharmaceuticals Products, Inc., et al.
  The People of Illinois v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc., et al
 
27
 
 
Government Investigations
 
In connection with the grand jury investigation into the Companys pricing and promotional practices relating to described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 2009 first quarter, on May 18, 2009, the United States Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts and the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice filed a complaint in intervention in two  actions that had been filed under seal in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts.  , Civil Action No. 03-12366-DPW. The complaint alleges that the Company violated the civil False Claims Act and federal common law by misreporting its Best Price for  between 2001 and 2006. The two underlying  complaints, which contain similar allegations, also were unsealed. Thereafter, on June 15, 2009, 15 states and the District of Columbia filed a complaint under the same docket number asserting violations of their various state laws based on allegations nearly identical to the federal complaint. On July 27, 2009, the Company waived service of the governments complaint and moved to dismiss the complaint on several grounds. As of this date, the Company has not been served with any of the operative complaints. The Company believes that its pricing calculations were correct and intends to defend itself vigorously in these actions. The grand jury investigation continues.
PROTONIX
  qui tam
United States et al. ex rel. Kieff v. Wyeth
  PROTONIX
  qui tam
 
Antitrust Matters
 
On July 8, 2009, the European Commission issued its final report in the European Commissions sector-wide competition law inquiry into the pharmaceutical industry, , Case No. COMP/D2/39.514, described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report, and announced the opening of one formal antitrust investigation, which did not involve the Company.
  EU Pharmaceuticals Sector Inquiry
 
Environmental Proceedings
 
MPA Matter
 
In the criminal proceedings in Ireland, described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report, in which Wyeth Medica Ireland (WMI) has been charged with violations of the Irish Waste Management Act and violations of WMIs Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control License in connection with shipments of medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA)-contaminated sugar water waste from WMIs Newbridge, Ireland facility, the Company has withdrawn its appeal in the Irish Supreme Court challenging the right of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Irish Environmental Protection Agency to prosecute the alleged violations of WMIs Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control License. On June 12, 2009, the proceedings were transferred from the Naas Circuit Court, where they originally had been brought, to the Dublin Circuit Court, and on July 10, 2009, the matter was set for trial on June 2, 2010.
 
28
 
 
Regulatory Matters
 
EFFEXOR
Proceedings
 
In May 2009, at the FDAs request, the Company withdrew its pending petitions for reconsideration and stay of the FDAs grant of an April 2003 petition by a consultant on behalf of an unnamed client seeking the FDAs permission to submit an ANDA for venlafaxine extended release tablets utilizing the Companys  (extended release capsules) as the reference product (as described in the Companys 2008 Financial Report). As part of its November 2008 ruling that Suns ANDA for venlafaxine extended release tablets referencing  (extended release capsules) must be withdrawn on the ground that its proper reference drug should be Osmotica Pharmaceutical Corp.s venlafaxine extended release tablet product, not  (extended release capsules) (see Patent Litigation   Litigation in the Companys 2008 Financial Report), the FDA had stated that the outcome made it unnecessary to address the issues raised in the Companys petitions for stay and reconsideration.
  EFFEXOR XR
  EFFEXOR XR
  EFFEXOR XR
  EFFEXOR
 
 
The Company has four reportable segments: Wyeth Pharmaceuticals (Pharmaceuticals), Wyeth Consumer Healthcare (Consumer Healthcare), Fort Dodge Animal Health (Animal Health) and Corporate. The Companys Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare and Animal Health reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services. The reportable segments are managed separately because they develop, manufacture, distribute and sell distinct products and provide services that require differing technologies and marketing strategies. The Companys Corporate segment is responsible for the audit, controller, treasury, tax and legal operations of the Companys businesses and maintains and/or incurs certain assets, liabilities, income, expense, gains and losses related to the overall management of the Company that are not allocated to the other reportable segments.
 
29
 
 
The following tables set forth for the Companys principal products and reportable segments, as well as  for the Companys reportable segments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
Net revenue
Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 26, 2009, the Company announced it had entered into a definitive merger agreement with Pfizer, a Delaware corporation, and a wholly owned Delaware subsidiary of Pfizer. Pursuant to the merger agreement and subject to the conditions set forth therein, the Pfizer subsidiary will merge with and into the Company, with the Company surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer.
 
As a result of the merger, each outstanding share of the Companys common stock, other than shares of restricted stock (for which holders will be entitled to receive cash consideration pursuant to separate terms of the merger agreement), and shares of common stock held directly or indirectly by the Company or Pfizer (which will be canceled as a result of the proposed merger), and other than those shares with respect to which appraisal rights are properly exercised and not withdrawn, will be converted into the right to receive $33.00 in cash, without interest, and 0.985 of a validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable share of common stock of Pfizer. Under the terms of the merger agreement, in the event that the number of shares of common stock of Pfizer issuable as a result of the merger would exceed 19.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Pfizer immediately prior to the closing of the merger, the stock portion of the merger consideration will be reduced so that no more than 19.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Pfizer become issuable in the merger, and the cash portion of the merger consideration will be increased by a corresponding amount.
 
31
 
The completion of the merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others (i) adoption of the merger agreement by the Companys stockholders (which occurred on July 20, 2009), (ii) the absence of certain legal impediments to the consummation of the merger, (iii) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and obtaining antitrust approvals in certain other jurisdictions (on July 17, 2009, the European Commission, one such jurisdiction, approved the proposed merger, subject to certain conditions), (iv) subject to certain materiality exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by the Company and Pfizer, respectively, and compliance by the Company and Pfizer with their respective obligations under the merger agreement, (v) declaration of the effectiveness by the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Pfizer (which occurred on June 17, 2009), and (vi) the lenders providing Pfizer with debt financing in connection with the merger shall not have declined to provide such financing at closing due to the occurrence of a Parent Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the merger agreement) or due to Pfizer failing to obtain certain credit ratings (the Specified Financing Condition). As of June 3, 2009, Pfizer had replaced its debt financing commitments with permanent financing through the issuance of unsecured senior notes, and, therefore, the Specified Financing Condition no longer is applicable.
 
A copy of the merger agreement was filed as an exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 29, 2009.
 
There are no assurances that the proposed transaction with Pfizer will be consummated on the expected timetable (at the end of the third quarter or during the fourth quarter of 2009) or at all. The merger agreement contains specified termination rights for the parties and sets forth specified circumstances under which either the Company or Pfizer would be required to pay the other party a termination fee in connection with the exercise of such termination rights.
 
The merger agreement with Pfizer received the required approval of stockholders at Wyeths Annual Meeting of Stockholders on July 20, 2009. Over 98 percent of votes cast and approximately 78 percent of the outstanding shares were voted in favor of the proposed merger with Pfizer.
 
During the 2009 second quarter and first half, the Company incurred $21.2 million after-tax ($0.02 per share-diluted) and $48.5 million after-tax ($0.04 per share-diluted), respectively, of costs related to the proposed merger with Pfizer.
 
32


