FILE:PFE/PFE-8K-20101209163054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Under the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the authorized undersigned.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 10.1
      THIS AGREEMENT (this Agreement), dated as of December 5, 2010, is by and between Pfizer Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), and Jeffrey B. Kindler (the Executive).      WHEREAS, Executive is currently employed as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board) and Chief Executive Officer of the Company;      WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire that Executives employment with the Company terminates, and that Executive resign from his position as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and all other positions with the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates on the date hereof (the Termination Date); and      WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire to set forth their respective rights and obligations in respect of Executives departure from the Company.      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and conditions set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
     1.     .  Executive and the Company hereby agree that Executives employment with the Company shall terminate, and Executive shall resign from his positions as Chairman of the Board, a member of the Board, Chief Executive Officer of the Company and from any and all other positions with the Company and its subsidiaries and other affiliated entities held by Executive, all on the date hereof.  Upon signing this Agreement, Executive shall execute and deliver to the Company a letter of resignation in the form of hereto.      2.     .  In consideration of the agreements of Executive herein and in full satisfaction of any benefits payable under the Companys Executive Severance Plan (the Severance Plan), Executive is entitled to the compensation and benefits set forth in this Section 2.      a.     .  On the first day of the seventh month following the Termination Date, the Company shall pay to Executive $4,510,500, as a lump sum severance amount.      b.     .  Executives Performance Shares shall be treated as if Executive remained employed through February 26, 2011. Executive shall be eligible to receive awards, prorated for service, with respect to Executives outstanding Performance Share Awards in accordance with, but subject to, the terms and conditions specified in the original award letter, Points of Interest and other applicable plan documents (including, without limitation, the restrictions on engaging in activities in competition with, or inimical, contrary or harmful to the interests of, the Company specified therein).  The amount, if any, of such awards shall be determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion upon completion of the applicable performance periods; provided, that the Compensation Committee shall exercise such discretion as to Executive no less favorably than such discretion is exercised with re spect to the then-current CEO of the Company.      c.    .  Executive will be entitled to the continuation of his medical and life insurance coverage for twelve (12) months following the Termination Date at active employee rates in accordance with the terms set forth in the Severance Plan.      d.     .  Executives termination of employment shall be treated as an early retirement (age 55 and 10 years of service) for purposes of calculating the applicable discount rate under the Companys Supplemental Retirement Plan.      e.    .  Executive will be paid a lump sum cash payment of $3,252,500 with respect to his 2010 annual bonus.  Such amount shall be paid at such time as bonuses are paid to active senior executives of the Company generally but in no event later than March 15, 2011.      f.     .  Executive will be paid a lump sum cash amount in full settlement of his 2010 Short Term Incentive Shift Award equal to $1,800,000 and shall forfeit any other benefit with respect thereto.      g.     .  Executives Restricted Stock Units and Total Shareholder Return Units/Stock Appreciation Rights shall be treated as if Executive remained employed through February 26, 2011 and Executives termination shall be treated as if it were an early retirement (age 55 and 10 years of service) for purposes of the award agreements governing his Total Shareholder Return Units/Stock Appreciation Rights.  Executives outstanding Restricted Stock Units and Total Shareholder Return Units/Stock Appreciation Rights will otherwise be treated consistent with the terms and conditions of such awards, and such awards will remain subject to the terms and conditions specified in the original award letters, Points of Interest and other applicable plan documents (including, without limitation, the restrictions on engaging in activities in competition with, or inimical, contrary or harmful to the i nterests of, the Company specified therein).      h.     .  Executive will be entitled to any right he may have to vested and accrued benefits, including, but not limited to, all previously vested deferred compensation shares of Company stock, under any applicable benefit plan, program, agreement or award of the Company from which he is not excluded from participating by this Agreement or by the terms of any such plan, program, agreement or award.      i.     .  No payments shall be made under this Section 2 until the release in Section 3 hereof (the Release) becomes effective and non-revocable pursuant to Section 17 hereof.      3.   .      a.    .  Except as specifically provided in the following paragraph, and in consideration of the benefits provided under Section 2 of this Agreement, which provides for payments and benefits in addition to payments and benefits to which Executive would otherwise be entitled, Executive, on behalf of Executive and Executives heirs, executors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges the Company, its past and present stockholders, its past and present divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates and related entities, its successors and assigns and all past and present directors, officers, employees, agents, heirs, executors and administrators and their heirs and assigns, and any and all employee retirement, health and welfare and other benefit plans, programs and arrangements of the Company, including current and former trustees and administrators of all such employee benefit plans, programs and arrangements (col lectively, the Releasees), from all actions, causes of action in law or in equity, administrative proceedings, suits, claims, debts, liens, sums of money, charges, accounts, reckonings, bonds, bills, specialties, covenants, contracts, controversies, agreements, promises, variances, trespasses, damages, judgments, extents, executions, claims, and demands whatsoever, in law or equity, whether known or unknown, which against the Releasees Executive or Executives successors and assigns ever had, now have or hereafter can, shall or may have, for, upon, or by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever from the beginning of the world to the date of this Release, including without limitation, any claims Executive may have arising from or relating to Executives employment or termination from employment with the Company, including a release of any rights or claims Executive may have under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, and the Civil Rights Act of 199 1 (which prohibit discrimination in employment based upon race, color, sex, religion, and national origin); the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (which prohibit discrimination based upon disability); the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (which prohibits discrimination based on requesting or taking a family or medical leave); Section 1981 of the Civil Rights Act of 1866 (which prohibits discrimination based upon race); Section 1985(3) of the Civil Rights Act of 1871 (which prohibits conspiracies to discriminate); the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (which prohibits discrimination with regard to benefits); any other federal, state or local laws against discrimination; or any other federal, state, or local statute, or common law relating to employment, wages, hours, or any other terms and conditions of employment.  This includes a release by Executive of any claims for wrongful discharge, breach of contract, torts or any other claims in any way related to Executives employment with or resignation or termination from the Company.  This Release also includes a release of any claims for age discrimination under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended (ADEA).  The ADEA requires that Executive be advised to consult with an attorney before Executive waives any claim under ADEA.  In addition, the ADEA provides Executive with at least twenty-one (21) days to decide whether to waive claims under ADEA and seven (7) days after Executive signs the waiver to revoke that waiver.      b.    .  In consideration of and in exchange for Executives acceptance of this Agreement and the obligations it imposes upon him, the Company, on behalf of itself and its parents, subsidiaries, affiliated companies, successors and assigns, hereby releases and forever discharges Executive and his heirs, administrators, executors and assigns (the Executive Released Parties) from any and all claims, injuries, damages, remedies, attorneys fees and costs or any other losses, whether known or unknown, arising from or related to Executives employment with the Company, including, but not limited to any and all statutory or common law claims of any kind, any claim based on breach of a statutory duty, and any other claim, from the beginning of time through the date the Company executes this Agreement.      c.    .  This Release does not encompass any rights or claims, including Executives rights as a stockholder, that may arise from conduct that occurs after the execution of this Release, and shall in no way be construed to affect either partys right to enforce any and all terms of the Agreement.      d.    .  Executive and the Company each represent and warrant that no other person or entity has, or to the best knowledge of Executive and the Company, respectively, claims, any interest in any potential claims, demands, causes of action, obligations, damages or suits that are the subject of the release set forth in this Section 3.  Executive and the Company each represent and warrant that neither has assigned or otherwise transferred any actions, causes of action, suits, debts, dues, sums of money, accounts, reckonings, bonds, bills, specialties, covenants, contracts, controversies, agreements, promises, variances, trespasses, damages, embarrassment, injury to business, injury to reputation, judgments, executions, claims, or demands whatsoever, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, disclosed or undisclosed, fixed or contingent, accrued or unaccrued, asserted or unasserted, which either ever had, now have or hereafter can, shall or may have from the beginning of the world to the date of the releases set forth in this Section 3 against the Releasees or the Executive Released Parties, as applicable.  Executive and his administrators, agents, successors and assigns and the Company and its successors and assigns, respectively, shall indemnify Releasees and the Executive Released Parties, as applicable, and hold them harmless from, all damages, losses, costs and expenses which Releasees or the Executive Released Parties, as applicable, may suffer or incur as a result of the assertion against them of any of the foregoing matters which were assigned or otherwise transferred by either party in a transaction which constitutes a breach of the representation and warranty contained in the immediately preceding sentence.      e.    .  This Release may not be changed orally.
Resignation from Current Positions
Exhibit A
Compensation and Benefits
Cash Severance
Performance Share Awards
 Medical and Life Insurance Benefits
Retirement Plans
 2010 Bonus
Short Term Shift Award
Equity Awards
Other Benefits
Effectiveness of Payments
 Mutual Release
Executive Release
Company Release
Claims Arising after Date Hereof
Ownership of Claims
No Oral Modification
     4.     .      a.   .  The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that a principal consideration for the agreement to make the payments provided in Section 2 hereof is Executives compliance with the undertakings set forth in this Section 4.      b.   .  Executive shall hold all trade secrets, secret or confidential information, intellectual property, or other proprietary information, knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies and their respective businesses that Executive obtained during or after Executives employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies (Confidential Information) in strict confidence.  Confidential Information does not include information that is or becomes publicly available, other than by the actions of Executive or his representatives.  Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, use, copy, communicate, divulge or disseminate Confidential Information at any time during or after Executives employment by the Company or any of its affiliated companies, except with the prior written consent of the Company or as otherwise required by law, regulation or legal process.  If Executive is requested pursuant to, or required by, applicable law or regulation or by legal process to disclose any Confidential Information, Executive will use his reasonable best efforts to provide the Company, as promptly as the circumstances reasonably permit, with notice of such request or requirement and, unless a protective order or other appropriate relief is previously obtained, the Confidential Information, subject to such request, may be disclosed pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of such request or requirement, provided that Executive shall use his best efforts to limit any such disclosure to the precise terms of such request or requirement. Executive will remain bound and strictly abide by the applicable terms of any agreement related to Confidential Information to which he previously agreed.      c.   .  Executive agrees, for the benefit of the Company, that he will not, from the date hereof through the third anniversary of the date hereof (the Restricted Period), engage, directly or indirectly, whether as principal, agent, distributor, representative, consultant, employee, partner, stockholder, limited partner or other investor (other than an investment of not more than (i) five percent (5%) of the stock or equity of any corporation the capital stock of which is publicly traded or (ii) five percent (5%) of the ownership interest of any limited partnership or other entity) or otherwise, in any public company which is competitive with the business now (as the Companys business is described in the Companys most recent Form 10-K), or at any time during the Restricted Period, conducted by the Company or its subsidiaries.  Without limiting the foregoing, during the Rest ricted Period, Executive shall not serve on the board of directors (or similar governing body), or accept a nomination therefor, of any pharmaceutical, bio-technology or technology company without the prior approval of the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, such an approval not to be unreasonably withheld.  During the Restricted Period, Executive will not, directly or indirectly, solicit, or induce any other person to solicit, any employee of the Company or its subsidiaries to leave his or her employment.       d.   .  Executive agrees to provide reasonable assistance to and cooperate with the Company and its counsel in regard to any litigation presently pending or subsequently initiated involving matters of which Executive has particular knowledge as a result of Executives employment with the Company.  Such assistance and cooperation shall consist of Executive making himself available at reasonable times for consultation with officers of the Company and its counsel and for depositions or other similar activity should the occasion arise.  Executive shall not receive any additional compensation for rendering such assistance.  In the event that travel or other expenses are incurred by Executive in connection with such assistance or in the event his testimony is required, the reasonable first-class travel costs and out-of-pocket expenses in connection therewith shall be reimbursed by the Company.  With respect to any pending or subsequent litigation in which Executive is a defendant as a result of his employment or other service on behalf of the Company, Executive hereby consents to his representation by Company counsel; provided, further, that if Company counsel determines that Executive should be separately represented in any matter, Executive shall be entitled to retain his counsel of choice at the expense of the Company.  In addition, Executive agrees to provide other reasonable post-termination assistance to and cooperate with the Company and its affiliates with regard to such matters as the Company may reasonably request from time to time, taking into account Executives personal and business obligations.  Following the Termination Date, the Company shall provide or cause to be provided to Executive coverage under the Companys directors and officers insurance policies for events that occurred while Executive was a director o r officer of the Company on the same terms and conditions applicable to other former senior executives and directors of the Company generally.  The Company shall indemnify Executive to the extent provided in Pfizers Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws as of the date hereof or to the extent subsequently modified for all former directors and officers of the Company generally.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no alleged violation of this Paragraph 4(d) shall, absent a final judgment entered in a Court of competent jurisdiction, shall be grounds for the Company to withhold payment of any monies to be paid pursuant to this Agreement.      e.   .  The parties hereto hereby acknowledge that the provisions of Sections 4(b) and 4(c) are reasonable and necessary for the protection of the Company and its subsidiaries.  In addition, Executive further acknowledges that the Company and its subsidiaries will be irrevocably damaged if such covenants are not specifically enforced.  Accordingly, Executive agrees that, in addition to any other relief to which the Company may be entitled, the Company will be entitled to seek and obtain injunctive relief (without the requirement of any bond) from a court of competent jurisdiction for the purposes of restraining Executive from any actual or threatened breach of such covenants.      5.    .      a.       .  In no event shall Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement, and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not Executive obtains other employment.
Restrictions and Obligations of Executive
Consideration for Restrictions and Covenants
Confidentiality
Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation
Litigation and Other Post-Termination Assistance
Relief
 Full Settlement; Payment in the Event of Death or Incapacity
No Obligation to Mitigate
     b.       .  All amounts payable to Executive pursuant to this Agreement shall be payable without regard to the death or incapacity of Executive.  Except as otherwise provided pursuant to terms of an employee benefit plan or a beneficiary designation thereunder pursuant to which any such amounts are payable, in the event of Executives death all such payments shall be paid to his estate, or such person or trust as he designates and in the event of Executives incapacity all such payments shall be made to his legal representative.
Payment in the Event of Death or Incapacity
     6.     .  No later than five days after the Termination Date, Executive shall return all property of the Company in his possession or control, including, but not limited to, Company keys, credit cards, security key cards, telephone cards, cell phone, car service cards, computer software or hardware and peripherals, Company identification cards, Company records and copies of records, correspondence and copies of correspondence and other books or manuals issued by the Company, that have been marked Confidential or that otherwise contain confidential or proprietary information of the Company or its subsidiaries.  Executive represents that he is not indebted in any manner to the Company.  The Company shall provide Executive with the opportunity to retrieve all personal effects from his office and shall cooperate with Executive to determine which items are personal.  In addition, th e Company shall cooperate with Executive including by working with Executives current executive assistant to provide Executive with electronic mail forwarding of personal emails for a transition period following the Termination Date.
 Retained Property
     7.    .  Executive warrants that he is entering into this Agreement voluntarily, and that, except as set forth herein, no promises or inducements for this Agreement have been made, and he is entering into this Agreement without reliance upon any other statement or representation by any of the Company and its affiliates, and its and their present and former stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, successors and assigns or any other person, concerning any fact material hereto.      8.    .  This Agreement and the Release constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersede any and all prior agreements or understandings between the parties arising out of or relating to Executives employment and the cessation thereof.  This Agreement and the Release may only be changed by written agreement executed by the parties.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive acknowledges and agrees that compensation previously provided to Executive or provided to Executive under this Agreement shall be subject to the Companys compensation recovery policy as in effect on the date hereof or as subsequently modified to the extent required by applicable law.      9.    .  This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflicts of law principles thereof.     10.    .  Each party represents and warrants to the other party that (i) such party has full and complete authority to execute this Agreement, (ii) the execution and delivery of this Agreement has been duly authorized and all actions necessary for the due execution of this Agreement have been taken, (iii) this Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the party, and (iv) this Agreement has been executed and delivered as its or his own free act and deed and not as the result of duress by the other party hereto.  Executive specifically acknowledges that he has been advised to consult legal counsel prior to executing this Agreement, and has been advised that he has an opportunity of at least twenty-one (21) days to consider this Agreement, which Executive has waived.     11.   .  Executive covenants and agrees not to engage in any act or say anything that is intended, or may reasonably be expected, to harm the reputation, business, prospects or operations of the Company, its officers, directors, stockholders or employees.  The Company will instruct its senior management and directors not to engage in any act or say anything that is intended, or may reasonably be expected, to harm the reputation, or business prospects of Executive and further agrees to make no official statements that are intended, or may reasonably be expected, to harm the reputation of Executive.  In the event that any potential employer of Executive seeks a reference or other information about Executive, the Company, its senior management and directors will describe Executive in terms substantially identical to the statement about him in the approved press release, and shall not make any disparaging statement about Executive.  Nothing in this Section 11 shall prohibit any person from making any truthful statements to the extent required by law or legal process.     12.    .  The parties have agreed to the press release attached as .     13.    .  Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be considered an admission by either party of any wrongdoing or liability under any Federal, state or local statute, public policy, tort law, contract law, common law or otherwise.     14.    .  Except as expressly stated herein, the parties do not intend to make any person or entity who is not a party to this Agreement a beneficiary hereof, and this Agreement should not be construed as being made for the benefit of any person or entity not expressly provided for herein.     15.    .  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall be one and the same instrument.     16.    .  Each of the sections contained in this Agreement shall be enforceable independently of every other section in this Agreement, and the invalidity or nonenforceability of any section shall not invalidate or render unenforceable any other section contained in this Agreement.  Executive acknowledges that the restrictive covenants contained in Section 4 are a condition of this Agreement.  If any court or arbitrator determines that any of the covenants in Section 4, or any part of any of them, is invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of such covenants and parts thereof shall not thereby be affected and shall be given full effect, without regard to the invalid portion.  If any court or arbitrator determines that any of such covenants, or part thereof, is invalid or unenforceable because of the geographic or temporal scope of such provision, such court or arbitrator shall reduce such scope to the minimum extent necessary to make such covenants, or part thereof, valid and enforceable.     17.    .  Executive has been advised that he shall have a period of twenty-one (21) days from the date of receipt of this Agreement to review and accept the Release, which Executive has waived.  Executive shall have seven (7) days following his execution of the Release during which time he may revoke the Release by providing the Company with written notice of the revocation.  The Release shall become effective and enforceable after the expiration of seven (7) days following Executives execution of the Release, and is not enforceable until after the seven-day revocation period expires.     18.    .  All payments and benefits provided to Executive under this Agreement will be less applicable withholdings for federal, state and local taxes.     19.    .  Except as otherwise provided for herein, any controversy arising under, out of, in connection with, or relating to, this Agreement, and any amendment hereof, or the breach hereof or thereof, shall be determined and settled by arbitration in New York, New York, by a single person mutually agreed upon, or in the event of a disagreement as to the selection of arbitrator, in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association.  Any award rendered therein shall specify the findings of fact of the arbitrator or arbitrators and the reasons of such award, with references to and reliance on relevant law.  Any such award shall be final and binding on each and all of the parties thereto and their personal representatives, and judgment may be entered thereon in any court having jurisdiction thereof.  The Company shall bear the costs of the Arbitrator subject to reapportionme nt by the Arbitrator.  The Company shall pay the Executives reasonable attorneys fees in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement, subject to a maximum of $25,000.     20.    .  It is the intent of the parties that all payments and benefits to Executive pursuant to this Agreement shall be made in full compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), if and to the extent applicable to such payments and benefits, and this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance therewith, and modified accordingly if necessary.  Notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, if any payment or benefit required hereunder cannot be provided or made at the time specified herein without incurring sanctions under Section 409A of the Code, then such benefit or payment shall be provided in full at the earliest time thereafter when such sanctions will not be imposed.
No Inducements
Entire Agreement
Governing Law
Representations and Warranties
 Non-Disparagement
Public Announcement
Exhibit B
No Admissions
No Third Party Beneficiaries
Counterparts
Severability of Provisions
Acceptance and Revocation
Tax Withholding
Arbitration
Section 409A
 
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written. PFIZER INC. By: Constance J. Horner         Lead Independent Director
/s/ Constance J. Horner
Jeffrey B. Kindler
/s/ Jeffrey B. Kindler
 
_________________________________________________________________________
 
 
December 5, 2010 Board of Directors Pfizer Inc.
Ladies and Gentlemen: Effective as of the date hereof, I, Jeffrey B. Kindler, hereby resign from my position as Chief Executive Officer of Pfizer Inc. (the Company) from my position as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, from my position as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, and from any and all other positions with the Company, its subsidiaries and any other of its affiliated entities held by me.
Very truly yours,
_______________________
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
New York  December 5, 2010  Pfizer Inc. (NYSE: PFE) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Ian C. Read, 57, currently head of the Companys global biopharmaceutical operations, as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director. Mr. Read succeeds Jeffrey B. Kindler, who has retired from the Company. 
The Boards Lead Independent Director, Constance J. Horner, said, In 2006, Jeff Kindler took on the challenge of transforming Pfizer in the face of enormous changes in the global health care marketplace and significant patent expirations of major products, including Lipitor.  Acting with the highest level of ethics and professionalism, he moved aggressively to drive change at the Company, including putting new, more focused and agile business units in place, building and enhancing world class compliance systems, recruiting talented new leaders, and refocusing and streamlining operations in every part of the world.  He also led the acquisition of Wyeth, which brought the Company valuable in-line and pipeline products and capabilities in attractive growth areas, including vaccines and biologics.  Due to the efforts of Jeff, the executive leadership team and Pfizers talented employees around the world, the Company is now a stronger, more diversified and more foc used company.      
Mr. Kindler commented, My nearly nine years at Pfizer and, particularly the last four and a half as CEO, have been extremely exciting and rewarding.  I feel our team can proudly boast of some transformational accomplishments.  However, the combination of meeting the requirements of our many stakeholders around the world and the 24/7 nature of my responsibilities, has made this period extremely demanding on me personally.  Now that we are about to complete a full year of operating Pfizer and Wyeth together, with our world-class team fully in place, I have concluded the time is right to turn the leadership of the company over to Ian Read.  Ian is an outstanding and experienced pharmaceutical executive who I know will make the next phase of the companys future a successful one.  He is more than ready to take on these responsibilities and I am excited at the opportunity to recharge my batteries, spend some rare time with my family, and prepare for the n ext challenge in my career. 
Ms. Horner added, In the last four years as President of Pfizers pharmaceutical businesses, Ian has redefined our go to market approach with the creation of global business units and has brought to product development a focus and commitment to advance only medicines that have clear value to our customers.  Todays business leaders need to understand global markets, drive change and innovation, and move quickly to adapt to competitive pressures.  Ians track record throughout his career has demonstrated these exact strengths.
Mr. Read said, I am honored to lead an organization with outstanding and dedicated colleagues on the front lines of medical innovation. We have a broad portfolio that spans the entire spectrum of human and animal health, from vaccines to biologics to primary care, specialty care, oncology, consumer products, nutritionals and beyond.  I have great confidence in the strength of our company and our leaders and will be looking at the performance and potential of all of our businesses to ensure we are delivering value to our customers and shareholders. We have all the elements for success -- financial strength, global reach, a disciplined focus on the therapeutic areas with the strongest growth potential and a talented and dedicated workforce.
Since 2006, Mr. Read has led Pfizers Worldwide Biopharmaceutical Businesses which now comprises five global business units  Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets  and accounts for approximately 85 percent of Pfizers annual revenues.  He was responsible for more than 40,000 Pfizer colleagues.  His leadership team consisted of senior executives directing Pfizer development and commercial operations in 180 nations.
Mr. Read joined Pfizer in 1978 and quickly assumed positions of increasing responsibility in Latin America.  In 1996, he was appointed President of Pfizers International Pharmaceuticals Group, with responsibility for Latin America and Canada. He was named Corporate Vice President in 2001, and assumed responsibility for Europe in addition to Canada.  Mr. Read later added the Africa/Middle East and Latin American regions to his leadership responsibility.
The Board will elect a non-executive Chairman from its current membership at its next regularly scheduled meeting that will take place within the next two weeks. 
Pfizer Inc: Working Together for a Healthier World
At Pfizer (NYSE: PFE), we apply science and our global resources to improve health and well-being at every stage of life.  We strive to set the standard for quality, safety and value in the discovery, development and manufacturing of medicines for people and animals.  Our diversified global health care portfolio includes human and animal biologic and small molecule medicines and vaccines, as well as nutritional products and many of the worlds best-known consumer products.  Every day, Pfizer colleagues work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time.  Consistent with our responsibility as the world's leading biopharmaceutical company, we also collaborate with health care providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable health care around the world.  For more than 150 years, Pfizer has worked to make a difference for all who rely on us. To learn more about our commitments, please visit us at www.pfizer.com.
 
 


