ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in those financial statements. These judgements can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. Our most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition; concentration of credit risk; inventory; pension and other postretirement benefit costs; goodwill and other intangible assets; income taxes; and derivatives. REVENUE RECOGNITION Generally, revenues from merchandise sales are recorded at the time the product is shipped to the customer. We report our sales levels on a net sales basis, which is computed by deducting from gross sales the amount of actual returns received and an amount established for anticipated returns. As is customary in the cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept returns of our products from retailers if properly requested, authorized and approved. In accepting returns, we typically provide a credit to the retailer against sales and accounts receivable from that retailer on a dollar for dollar basis. Our sales return accrual is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net sales. This accrual is calculated based on a history of gross sales and actual returns by region and product category. In addition, as necessary, specific accruals may be established for future known or anticipated events. As a percentage of gross sales, sales returns were 4.9%, 4.9% and 4.3% in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK An entity is more vulnerable to concentrations of credit risk if it is exposed to risk of loss greater than it would have had it mitigated its risk through diversification of customers. Such risks of loss manifest themselves differently, depending on the nature of the concentration, and vary in significance. We have three major customers that owned and operated retail stores that in the aggregate accounted for approximately $1.20 billion, or 25%, of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2002 and $177.8 million, or 28%, of our accounts receivable at June 30, 2002. These groups sell products primarily within North America. Although management believes that these customers are sound and creditworthy, a severe adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our net sales, cash flows, and or financial condition. In the ordinary course of business, we have established an allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions in the amount of $30.6 million and $26.8 million as of June 30, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Our allowance for doubtful accounts is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net earnings. This reserve is based upon the evaluation of accounts receivable aging, specific exposures and historical trends. INVENTORY We state our inventory at the lower of cost or fair market value, with cost being determined on the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe FIFO most closely matches the flow of our products from manufacture through sale. The reported net value of our inventory includes saleable products, promotional products, raw materials and componentry that will be sold or used in future periods. Inventory cost includes raw materials, direct labor and overhead. We also record an inventory obsolescence reserve, which represents the difference between the cost of the inventory and its estimated market value, based on various product sales projections. This reserve is calculated using an estimated obsolescence percentage applied to the inventory based on age, historical trends and requirements to support forecasted sales. In addition, and as necessary, we may establish specific reserves for future known or anticipated events. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS We offer the following benefits to some or all of our employees: a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan; an unfunded, nonqualified domestic benefit pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations; a contributory defined contribution plan; international pension plans, which vary by country, the most significant of which are defined benefit pension plans; deferred compensation; and certain other postretirement benefits. 15 The amounts necessary to fund future payouts under these plans are subject to numerous assumptions and variables. Certain significant variables require us to make assumptions that are within our control such as an anticipated discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and future compensation levels. We evaluate these assumptions with our actuarial advisors and we believe they are within accepted industry ranges, although an increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our control could have a direct impact on reported net earnings. For fiscal 2003, we will use a pre retirement discount rate of 7.0% and anticipate using an expected return on plan assets of 8.75%, both of which will result in a higher calculated pension expense. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the value of their underlying net assets. Other intangible assets principally consist of purchased royalty rights and trademarks. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite life are not amortized. On an annual basis, we test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment. To determine the fair value of these intangible assets, there are many assumptions and estimates used that directly impact the results of the testing. We have the ability to influence the outcome and ultimate results based on the assumptions and estimates we choose. To mitigate undue influence, we use industry accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by various levels of management. Additionally, we evaluated our recorded goodwill with the assistance of a third party valuation firm. INCOME TAXES We have accounted for, and currently account for, income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." This Statement establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effects of income taxes that result from an enterprises activities during the current and preceding years. It requires an asset and liability approach for financial accounting and reporting of income taxes. As of June 30, 2002, we have current net deferred tax assets of $112.4 million and non current net deferred tax assets of $72.7 million. These net deferred tax assets assume sufficient future earnings for their realization, as well as the continued application of current tax rates. Included in net deferred tax assets is a valuation allowance of approximately $1.5 million for deferred tax assets, which relates to foreign tax loss carryforwards not utilized to date, where management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the relevant jurisdiction. Based on our assessments, no additional valuation allowance is required. If we determine that a deferred tax asset will not be realizable, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will result in a reduction of earnings at that time. Furthermore, the Company provides tax reserves for Federal, state and international exposures relating to audit results, planning initiatives and compliance responsibilities. The development of these reserves requires judgements about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical estimate. DERIVATIVES We currently account for derivative financial instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as amended, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. This Statement also requires the recognition of all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and that they be measured at fair value. We currently use derivative financial instruments to hedge certain anticipated transactions as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. We do not utilize derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Hedge effectiveness is documented, assessed and monitored by our employees who are qualified to make such assessments and monitor the instruments. Variables that are external to the Company such as social, political and economic risks may have an impact on our hedging program and the results thereon. 16 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We manufacture, market and sell skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products which are distributed in over 130 countries and territories. The following is a comparative summary of operating results for fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 and reflects the basis of presentation described in Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented. Sales of products and services that do not meet our definition of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care have been included in the "other" category. YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS) NET SALES BY REGION: The Americas .......................... $2,878.2 $2,857.8 $2,714.0 Europe, the Middle East & Africa ...... 1,261.1 1,221.8 1,142.2 Asia/Pacific .......................... 610.6 596.1 584.1 4,749.9 4,675.7 4,440.3 Restructuring * ....................... (6.2) (8.0) $4,743.7 $4,667.7 $4,440.3 BY PRODUCT CATEGORY: Skin Care ............................. $1,703.3 $1,660.7 $1,577.0 Makeup ................................ 1,790.5 1,721.6 1,603.5 Fragrance ............................. 1,017.3 1,085.1 1,117.2 Hair Care ............................. 215.8 180.7 113.9 Other ................................. 23.0 27.6 28.7 4,749.9 4,675.7 4,440.3 Restructuring * ....................... (6.2) (8.0) $4,743.7 $4,667.7 $4,440.3 OPERATING INCOME BY REGION: The Americas .......................... $ 222.9 $ 299.9 $ 287.9 Europe, the Middle East & Africa ...... 179.9 201.8 168.9 Asia/Pacific .......................... 56.0 56.9 59.0 458.8 558.6 515.8 Restructuring and other non recurring expenses * ............ (117.4) (63.0) $ 341.4 $ 495.6 $ 515.8 BY PRODUCT CATEGORY: Skin Care ............................. $ 248.4 $ 266.9 $ 240.5 Makeup ................................ 183.2 212.5 181.8 Fragrance ............................. 13.4 63.6 80.6 Hair Care ............................. 13.7 13.1 12.4 Other ................................. 0.1 2.5 0.5 458.8 558.6 515.8 Restructuring and other non recurring expenses * ............ (117.4) (63.0) $ 341.4 $ 495.6 $ 515.8 * Refer to the two "Restructuring and Other Non Recurring Expenses" sections of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information about these charges. 17 The following table presents certain consolidated earnings data as a percentage of net sales: YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 2002 2001 2000 Net sales ................................... 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Cost of sales ............................... 26.8 26.3 27.9 Gross profit ................................ 73.2 73.7 72.1 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative ..... 63.3 61.5 59.8 Restructuring ........................... 2.3 0.8 Other non recurring ..................... 0.3 Related party royalties ................. 0.4 0.5 0.7 66.0 63.1 60.5 Operating income ............................ 7.2 10.6 11.6 Interest expense, net ....................... 0.2 0.2 0.4 Earnings before income taxes, minority interest and accounting change ............ 7.0 10.4 11.2 Provision for income taxes .................. 2.4 3.7 4.1 Minority interest, net of tax ............... (0.1) (0.1) Net earnings before accounting change ....... 4.5 6.6 7.1 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax .......... (0.4) (0.1) Net earnings ................................ 4.1% 6.5% 7.1% FISCAL 2002 AS COMPARED WITH FISCAL 2001 NET SALES Net sales increased 2% or $76.0 million to $4.74 billion reflecting continued growth in the makeup, skin care and hair care categories, partially offset by a decline in fragrance net sales. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales increased 3%. The unusual events that occurred during the current fiscal year and their effect on the economy, particularly in the United States, have adversely impacted our business. In addition, the decline in worldwide travel during most of fiscal 2002 led to a 13% reduction in our travel retail sales. Sales growth from certain newer brands and recently launched products partially offset these decreases. The following discussions of Net Sales by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of the restructurings in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. Neither restructuring was material to our net sales, and the discussions represent the manner in which we conduct and view our business. For a discussion of the restructurings, see "Operating Expenses Restructuring and Other Non Recurring Expenses" in this section and under the same heading under "Fiscal 2001 as compared with Fiscal 2000". PRODUCT CATEGORIES SKIN CARE Net sales of skin care products increased 3% or $42.6 million to $1.70 billion. The net sales increase is primarily attributable to recently launched products such as Total Turnaround Visible Skin Renewer, Advanced Night Repair Eye Recovery Complex, Moisture Surge Extra and Moisture Surge Eye Gel, A Perfect World, LightSource Transforming Moisture Lotion and Cream, and Re Nutriv Ultimate Lifting Creme. Partially offsetting these increases were lower net sales of certain existing products such as Turnaround Cream and Resilience Lift, as well as products in Cliniques 3 Step Skin Care System. 18 MAKEUP Makeup net sales increased 4% or $68.9 million to $1.79 billion. Newer brands such as M.A.C, Bobbi Brown and Stila, which are primarily makeup products, contributed through growth at existing doors and increased distribution. In addition, strong sales of the Pure Color Line of products, the worldwide launch of Gentle Light Makeup and Illusionist Mascara contributed positively to net sales growth. Partially offsetting the increase in net sales were lower sales of Two in One Eye Shadow, Lucidity Makeup, and Long Last Soft Shine Lipstick. FRAGRANCE Net sales of fragrance products decreased 6% or $67.8 million to $1.02 billion. This category continued to be impacted by the softness of the fragrance business in the United States and the decline in our travel retail business, which depends substantially on fragrance products. Lower net sales of Beautiful, Estee Lauder pleasures, DKNY for Women and certain existing Tommy Hilfiger licensed products were partially offset by the recent launch of T, a new fragrance in the Tommy Hilfiger line, and Intuition for Men, as well as strong sales of Donna Karan Cashmere Mist. HAIR CARE Hair care net sales increased 19% or $35.1 million to $215.8 million. This increase was primarily the result of growth from Aveda, which benefited from recently launched texture lotion products and Color Conserve Shampoo and an increase in the number of Company owned Aveda Environmental Lifestyle Stores. Sales of Bumble and bumble products increased due to an expanded product line and an increase in the number of points of sale. The results were partially offset by lower sales from Cliniques Simple Hair Care System when compared with the prior year launch. The introduction of new products may have some cannibalizing effect on sales of existing products, which we take into account in our business planning. GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS Net sales in the Americas increased 1% or $20.4 million to $2.88 billion. The increase is primarily due to the success of most newer brands, partially offset by economic weakness and uncertainty in the United States during most of the fiscal year. We expect uncertain economic conditions to persist into fiscal 2003 and we are planning accordingly. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, net sales increased 3% or $39.3 million to $1.26 billion. This increase was primarily the result of higher net sales in the United Kingdom, Spain and Greece, where in fiscal 2002 we formed a joint venture in which we own a controlling majority interest with our former distributor. The increase was partially offset by lower net sales in our travel retail business, which has been adversely affected by a decrease in worldwide travel. Excluding the impact of our travel retail business, net sales in Europe, the Middle East & Africa increased 8% or $77.8 million. Net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 2% or $14.5 million to $610.6 million primarily due to higher net sales in Korea and Thailand, as well as in Australia where we benefited from a change in retailer arrangements. The increased sales were partially offset by lower net sales in Japan. Japan continues to remain a difficult market due to local economic conditions and increasing competition. The challenges were made more difficult by the weakness of the Japanese yen during fiscal 2002 as compared with the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 9%. We strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in regional sales growth. COST OF SALES Cost of sales as a percentage of total net sales was 26.8% as compared with 26.3% in the prior year. The lower margin can be attributed in part to production volume decreases resulting in under absorption of overhead, as well as lower than planned raw material purchases that reduced anticipated savings from sourcing initiatives. Partially offsetting these negative factors were lower sales volumes of products with a higher cost of goods, particularly in travel retail and fragrance. Due to variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, we anticipate greater fluctuations in our gross margins and operating expenses on a period by period basis. 19 OPERATING EXPENSES OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses increased to 66.0% of net sales as compared with 63.1% of net sales in the prior year. The increase in operating expenses primarily related to restructuring expenses, continued advertising and promotional spending and the cost to expand and operate our retail stores. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales reflects a slower growth rate in sales than operating expenses, primarily due to economic conditions in the United States as discussed above. As part of our long term strategies, we continued to emphasize the building of "brand equities" through advertising and promotional spending and retail store expansion despite difficult economic times. Changes in advertising and promotional spending result from the type, timing and level of advertising and promotional activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets being emphasized. Excluding the impact of restructuring and other non recurring expenses, operating expenses were 63.5% and 61.9% of net sales for the fiscal years ended 2002 and 2001, respectively. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON RECURRING EXPENSES During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we recorded special charges for a restructuring related to repositioning certain businesses as part of our ongoing efforts to drive long term growth and increase profitability. The restructuring focused on cost reduction opportunities related to the Internet, our supply chain, globalization of the organization and distribution channel refinements. We have committed to a defined plan of action, which resulted in an aggregate pre tax charge of $117.4 million, of which $59.4 million is cash related. On an after tax basis, the aggregate charge was $76.9 million, equal to $.32 per diluted share. As these initiatives are fully implemented, we expect to generate annual ongoing savings of about $46 million, of which a portion will be reinvested. Specifically, the charge included the following: o INTERNET. In an effort to achieve strategic objectives, reduce costs and improve profitability, we outsourced Gloss.com platform development and maintenance efforts to a third party provider. Additionally, Gloss.com closed its San Francisco facility and consolidated its operations in New York. As a result, included in the charge was a $23.9 million provision for restructuring the Gloss.com operations, including benefits and severance packages for 36 employees as well as asset write offs. We also took a $20.1 million charge to write off the related Gloss.com acquisition goodwill. o SUPPLY CHAIN. Building on previously announced supply chain initiatives, we have restructured certain manufacturing, distribution, research and development, information systems and quality assurance operations in the United States, Canada and Europe, which included benefits and severance packages for 110 employees. A charge of $23.7 million was recorded related to this effort. o GLOBALIZATION OF ORGANIZATION. We continue to implement our previously announced transition to a global brand structure designed to streamline the decision making process and increase innovation and speed to market. The next phase of this transition entailed eliminating duplicate functions and responsibilities, which resulted in charges for benefits and severance for 122 employees. We recorded a charge of $27.1 million associated with these efforts. o DISTRIBUTION. We evaluated areas of distribution relative to our financial targets and will focus our resources on the most productive sales channels and markets. As a result, we closed our operations in Argentina and the remaining customers will be serviced by our Chilean affiliate. We are also closing all remaining in store "tommys shops" and we are closing other select points of distribution. We recorded a $22.6 million provision related to these actions, which included benefits and severance for 85 employees. Following is a summary of the charges as recorded in the consolidated statement of earnings for fiscal 2002: RESTRUCTURING (IN MILLIONS) NET COST OF OPERATING SALES SALES EXPENSES TOTAL Internet ......................... $ $ $ 44.0 $ 44.0 Supply Chain ..................... 23.7 23.7 Globalization of Organization .... 27.1 27.1 Distribution ..................... 6.2 0.8 15.6 22.6 TOTAL CHARGE ..................... $ 6.2 $ 0.8 $110.4 117.4 Tax effect ....................... (40.5) NET CHARGE ....................... $ 76.9 20 The restructuring charge was recorded in other accrued liabilities or, where applicable, as a reduction of the related asset. During fiscal 2002, $9.3 million related to this restructuring was paid and approximately $5.6 million of additional payments were made through August 31, 2002. We expect to settle a majority of the remaining obligations by the end of fiscal 2003 with certain additional payments made ratably through fiscal 2006. OPERATING RESULTS Operating income decreased 31% or $154.2 million to $341.4 million as compared with the prior year. Operating margins were 7.2% of net sales in the current period as compared with 10.6% in the prior year. The decrease in operating margin was primarily due to restructuring expenses, lower than expected sales levels, increased support spending and new distribution channel costs. This was partially offset by the exclusion of amortization expense due to the adoption of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", in fiscal 2002 and the November 2000 expiration of amortization related to purchased royalty rights. Operating income reflected the inclusion of restructuring and other non recurring expenses of $117.4 million and $63.0 million in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. Before consideration of the restructuring and other non recurring expenses, operating income decreased 18% to $458.8 million and operating margins were 9.7% in fiscal 2002 as compared with 11.9% in fiscal 2001. Net earnings and net earnings per diluted share decreased approximately 37% and 39%, respectively. Net earnings declined $113.3 million to $191.9 million and net earnings per diluted share was lower by $.46 per diluted share from $1.16 to $.70. On a comparable basis, before restructuring and other non recurring expenses, before the cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting principle, and excluding goodwill amortization in fiscal 2001, net earnings were $289.4 million, representing a decrease of 20% over the prior year, and diluted earnings per common share decreased 21% to $1.10 from $1.39 in the prior year. The following discussions of Operating Income by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of restructuring and other non recurring expenses and represent the manner in which we conduct and view our business. PRODUCT CATEGORIES Operating income decreased 79% to $13.4 million in fragrance, 14% to $183.2 million in makeup and 7% to $248.4 million in skin care, primarily due to lower than anticipated sales levels, coupled with continued advertising and promotional spending to promote new and recently launched products. Hair care operating income increased 5%, from a smaller base, to $13.7 million, primarily due to sales growth from Aveda and Bumble and bumble. GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS Operating income in the Americas decreased 26% or $77.0 million to $222.9 million, primarily due to lower sales attributable to weakness in the U.S. economy and continued advertising and promotional spending. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income decreased 11% or $21.9 million to $179.9 million, primarily due to the significant decrease in our travel retail business. Partially offsetting the decrease were improved operating results in Italy, the United Kingdom, Spain and Germany. We also benefited from the inclusion of operating results from our majority owned joint venture in Greece. In Asia/Pacific, operating income decreased slightly to $56.0 million due to lower income in China and Hong Kong offset by higher results in Korea, in Australia, where we benefited from a change in retailer arrangements, and in Japan, where we were able to reduce operating expenses. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Net interest expense was $9.8 million as compared with $12.3 million in the prior year. The decrease in net interest expense resulted from a lower effective interest rate compared with the prior year. This was primarily due to our interest rate risk management strategy that relied on commercial paper and variable rate term loans. In January 2002, we took advantage of prevailing market rates and issued fixed rate long term notes to replace our variable rate debt. We believe this will mitigate future interest rate volatility, but we expect it will result in a higher level of interest expense in the near term. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The Companys effective tax rate will change from year to year based on non recurring and recurring factors including, but not limited to, the geographical mix of earnings, the timing and amount of foreign dividends, state and local taxes, tax audit settlements and interaction of various global tax strategies. 21 The provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The effective rate for income taxes for fiscal 2002 was 34.5% compared with 36% in the prior year. These rates reflect the effect of state and local taxes, changes in tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, tax credits and certain non deductible expenses. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was attributable to ongoing tax planning initiatives, as well as a decrease in non deductible domestic royalty expense and the elimination of certain non deductible goodwill amortization resulting from the implementation of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets". FISCAL 2001 AS COMPARED WITH FISCAL 2000 NET SALES Net sales increased 5% or $227.4 million to $4.67 billion reflecting continued growth in the makeup, skin care and hair care categories, partially offset by a decline in fragrance net sales. The United States retail business demonstrated continued softness particularly in the fragrance category. Growth on a reported basis reflected the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in virtually all markets in which we do business. Net sales growth was primarily attributable to a combination of new and recently launched products, the inclusion of newer brands such as Bumble and bumble and changes in distribution, including additional retail locations. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales increased 9%, with double digit contributions from each of Europe, the Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific. The following discussions of Net Sales by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of the fiscal 2001 restructuring and other non recurring expenses, which were not material to our net sales, and represent the manner in which we conduct and view our business. For a discussion of the restructuring and other non recurring expenses, see "Operating Expenses Restructuring and Other Non Recurring Expenses" in this section. PRODUCT CATEGORIES SKIN CARE Net sales of skin care products increased 5% or $83.7 million to $1.66 billion. This increase was primarily attributable to newer products such as Idealist Skin Refinisher, Anti Gravity Firming Lift Cream, Anti Gravity Firming Eye Lift Cream and Pro Preferred Skincare products, the first skin care line for our M.A.C brand. By introducing new products into lines such as Re Nutriv, the Origins Ginger Bath and Body Collection and Acne Solutions, we continued to attract consumers to the lines and maintain sales momentum. White Light Brightening System and Active White continued to be popular whitening products particularly in the Asia/Pacific region. Newly launched products such as Private Spa Collection, Origins facial skin products and initial shipments of LightSource contributed to increased sales. Partially offsetting these increases were lower sales of certain existing products such as Fruition Extra and Diminish. MAKEUP Makeup net sales increased 7% or $118.1 million to $1.72 billion. Significant contributors were recently launched products such as High Impact Eye Shadow, Moisture Surge Lipstick, Equalizer Smart Makeup, Lash Doubling Mascara, Glossware, Pure Color Lip Gloss, Luxe Makeup and Automatic Pencil Duo. In addition, established products such as Pure Color Lipstick, Quickliner For Lips, Quickliner For Eyes and Sheer Powder Blusher added to increased sales. M.A.C products also contributed to increased sales with the Eden Rocks, M.A.C Paints and Heat product lines. FRAGRANCE Net sales of fragrance products decreased 3% or $32.1 million to $1.09 billion, but increased 1% on a comparable currency basis. The decrease in net sales was attributable to a continued decline in sales of Tommy Hilfiger licensed products, as well as to lower sales of Estee Lauder pleasures, Clinique Happy and Clinique Happy for Men. The continued softness of the fragrance business in the United States in fiscal 2001 and difficult comparisons to the prior year contributed to the decline in this category. Contributing positively to the category were new products, such as Intuition, Ginger Essence and DKNY for Men, as well as the international rollout of DKNY for Women. HAIR CARE Hair care net sales increased 59% or $66.8 million to $180.7 million. The increase in sales is attributable to the inclusion of Bumble and bumble, in which we acquired a controlling majority equity interest in June 2000, and the launch of Cliniques Simple Hair Care System. In addition, sales growth was generated by Aveda shampoo and conditioner products, such as the Sap Moss and Brilliant product groups, and an increase in the number of Company owned Aveda Environmental Lifestyle Stores. 22 The introduction of new products may have some cannibalizing effect on sales of existing products, which we take into account in our business planning. GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS Sales in the Americas increased 5% or $143.8 million to $2.86 billion. This increase was driven by sales growth in the makeup, skin care, and hair care categories, particularly with the success of new and recently launched products and the growth of our newer brands. The increase was partially offset by a decline in fragrance sales due to the softness in this category in the United States. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, net sales increased 7% or $79.6 million to $1.22 billion. The increase was primarily the result of higher net sales in the United Kingdom, Spain and France and in our distributor and travel retail businesses. This increase was partially offset by decreased sales in Germany and South Africa. Net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 2% or $12.0 million to $596.1 million primarily due to higher net sales in Korea, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Thailand, partially offset by lower sales in Japan and Australia. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, sales grew in each country in Europe, the Middle East & Africa and in Asia/Pacific, accounting for growth of 17% and 10%, respectively. We strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in regional sales growth. COST OF SALES Cost of sales as a percentage of total net sales improved to 26.3% from 27.9%, reflecting the impact of our manufacturing and sourcing initiatives as well as changes in distribution and product mix. Changes in distribution include the rollout of our own retail stores and the acquisition of certain distributor operations, both of which contributed to higher gross margins. In addition, the synergies achieved by incorporating recently acquired businesses into our existing manufacturing and sourcing infrastructures had a favorable impact on gross margins. OPERATING EXPENSES OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses increased to 63.1% of net sales as compared with 60.5% of net sales in the prior year. Excluding the impact of restructuring and other non recurring expenses, operating expenses were 61.9% of net sales. This change primarily related to the increased cost of our retail store and Internet operations, which have higher operating cost structures than our traditional distribution channels. Additionally, depreciation and amortization charges increased compared with the prior year, reflecting increased goodwill amortization from acquisitions and depreciation related to capital investments, partially offset by the November 2000 expiration of amortization related to purchased royalty rights. Changes in advertising and promotional spending result from the type, timing and level of advertising and promotional activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as from the markets being emphasized. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON RECURRING EXPENSES During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we recorded one time charges for restructuring and other non recurring expenses related to repositioning certain businesses as part of our ongoing efforts to drive long term growth and increase profitability. The restructuring and other non recurring expenses focused on four areas: product fixtures for the jane brand; in store "tommys shops"; information systems and other assets; and global brand reorganization. We committed to a defined plan of action, which resulted in an aggregate pre tax charge of $63.0 million, of which $35.9 million is cash related. On an after tax basis, the aggregate charge was $40.3 million, equal to $.17 per diluted share. Specifically, the charge included the following: o jane. To bring product innovation rapidly to the market and drive growth, jane switched from its traditional wall displays to a carded program. We believed this change would lead to increased sales and improvements in profitability. The positive effects on sales and improved profitability of this initiative were offset by the reduction in the number of points of sale during fiscal 2002. The charge included a $16.1 million write down of existing jane product fixtures and the return of uncarded product from virtually all of the 13,000 distribution outlets in the United States. o "tommys shops". We also restructured the in store "tommys shops" to focus on our most productive locations and decided to close certain shops that underperformed relative to expectations. As a result, we recorded a $6.3 million provision for the closing of 86 under performing in store "tommys shops", located in the United States, and for related product returns. 23 o INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND OTHER ASSETS. In response to changing technology and our new strategic direction, the charge included a $16.2 million provision for costs associated with the reevaluation of supply chain systems that we will no longer utilize and with the elimination of unproductive assets related to the change to standard financial systems. o GLOBAL BRAND REORGANIZATION. We recorded $20.8 million related to benefits and severance packages for 75 management employees who were affected by the reconfiguration to a global brand structure and another $3.6 million related to infrastructure costs. As of June 30, 2002, none of the 75 management employees identified in the reorganization was still an employee. We believe that the global brand structure is improving decision making processes, thereby increasing innovation and speed to market. Following is a summary of the charges as recorded in the consolidated statement of earnings for fiscal 2001: RESTRUCTURING OTHER NON (IN MILLIONS) NET COST OF OPERATING RECURRING SALES SALES EXPENSES EXPENSES TOTAL jane .......................... $ 5.7 $ 1.5 $ 4.8 $ 4.1 $16.1 "tommys shops" ............... 2.3 (0.4) 4.4 6.3 Information systems and other assets ................ 4.6 11.6 16.2 Global brand reorganization ... 23.8 0.6 24.4 TOTAL CHARGE .................. $ 8.0 $ 1.1 $37.6 $16.3 63.0 Tax effect .................... (22.7) NET CHARGE .................... $40.3 The restructuring charge was recorded in other accrued liabilities or as a reduction of fixed assets. During fiscal 2001, $0.7 million was paid and through June 30, 2002, an additional $26.7 million was paid. As of June 30, 2002, the remaining obligation was $7.1 million, the majority of which we expect to settle by the end of fiscal 2003 with remaining payments made ratably through fiscal 2004. OPERATING RESULTS Operating income decreased 4% or $20.2 million to $495.6 million as compared with the prior year. Operating margins were 10.6% of net sales in fiscal 2001 as compared with 11.6% in the prior year. Operating income reflected the inclusion of restructuring and other non recurring expenses of $46.7 million and $16.3 million, respectively. Before consideration of these one time charges, operating income increased 8% to $558.6 million and operating margins were 11.9%. The increase in operating income was primarily due to higher net sales and an improved gross margin percentage, partially offset by increased operating expenses reflecting increased sales support spending and new distribution channel costs. Net earnings and net earnings per diluted share decreased approximately 3%. Net earnings declined $8.9 million to $305.2 million and net earnings per diluted share was lower by $.04 per diluted share from $1.20 to $1.16. Net earnings before restructuring and other non recurring expenses and before the cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting principle was $347.7 million, representing an increase of 11% over the prior year; diluted earnings per common share increased 12% to $1.34 from $1.20 in the prior year. The following discussions of Operating Income by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of restructuring and other non recurring expenses and represent the manner in which we conduct and view our business. PRODUCT CATEGORIES Operating income increased 17% to $212.5 million and 11% to $266.9 million in makeup and skin care, respectively, due primarily to the strength of recently launched products. The strong growth of our M.A.C business, which includes retail store expansion, also contributed to the increase in makeup operating income. Operating income from our fragrance business declined by $17.0 million reflecting lower sales and increased support spending versus the prior year. The nominal increase in hair care operating income was a result of the inclusion of Bumble and bumble and sales from recent launches, partially offset by costs associated with refining Avedas salon distribution, opening new Aveda Environmental Lifestyle Stores and investing in new product introductions. 24 GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS Operating income in the Americas increased 4% or $12.0 million to $299.9 million as compared with the prior year, primarily due to net sales increases related to new and recently launched products, strong growth in our M.A.C business and the inclusion of Bumble and bumble, partially offset by a decline in fragrance net sales. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income increased 19% or $32.9 million to $201.8 million primarily due to improved operating results in the United Kingdom and Spain and in the travel retail business, partially offset by lower operating income in South Africa. In Asia/Pacific, operating income decreased slightly to $56.9 million due to higher results in Korea and Hong Kong offset by lower operating income in Japan and Australia. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Net interest expense was $12.3 million as compared with $17.1 million in the prior year. As a result of an increase in average available cash during the period, we had higher interest income on invested funds and lower interest expense due to reduced short term borrowings. Additionally, we benefited from a lower effective interest rate on our long term borrowings resulting from our interest rate risk management strategy. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The effective rate for income taxes for fiscal 2001 was 36% compared with 37% in the prior year. These rates reflect the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain non deductible expenses. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was principally attributable to ongoing tax planning initiatives. FINANCIAL CONDITION LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our principal sources of funds historically have been cash flows from operations and borrowings under commercial paper and committed and uncommitted credit lines provided by banks in the United States and abroad. In February 2002, we repaid $200.0 million principal amount of bank borrowings with proceeds of a public offering of 6% Senior Notes due 2012 ("6% Senior Notes"). At June 30, 2002, we had cash and cash equivalents of $546.9 million compared with $346.7 million at June 30, 2001. We have a $750.0 million commercial paper program, under which we have issued, and intend to issue, commercial paper in the United States. Our commercial paper is currently rated A 1 by Standard & Poors and P 1 by Moodys. Our long term credit ratings are A+ by Standard & Poors and A1 by Moodys. At June 30, 2002, our outstanding borrowings consisted of $130.0 million of commercial paper; $248.9 million, net of $1.1 million unamortized debt discount, of 6% Senior Notes due January 2012; a 700.0 million yen loan payable (approximately $5.8 million at current exchange rates), which is due in April 2003; and a 3.0 billion yen term loan (approximately $25.0 million at current exchange rates), which is due in March 2006. Commercial paper is classified as long term debt on our balance sheet based upon our intent and ability to refinance maturing commercial paper on a long term basis. It is our policy to maintain backup facilities to support our commercial paper program and its classification as long term debt. As of June 30, 2002, we had an unused $400.0 million revolving credit facility, expiring on June 28, 2006. We also have an effective shelf registration statement covering the potential issuance of up to $150.0 million in debt securities. In January 2002, we issued and sold $250.0 million of 6% Senior Notes due 2012 in a public offering. The 6% Senior Notes were priced at 99.538% with a yield of 6.062%. Interest payments are required to be made semi annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year. We made the first payment on July 15, 2002. The primary portion of the net proceeds of the offering was used to repay a $200.0 million term loan. The remainder was used to repay a portion of the outstanding commercial paper. We issued these fixed rate notes in an attempt to mitigate future interest rate volatility and capitalize on the prevailing market interest rates then available for such long term instruments. However, we do expect the refinancing to result in a higher level of interest expense in the near term. Our business is seasonal in nature and, accordingly, our working capital needs vary. To meet these needs, we could issue up to an additional $620.0 million of commercial paper under our program, issue long term debt securities or borrow under the revolving credit facility. As of June 30, 2002, we also had $22.9 million in unused uncommitted facilities. Total debt as a percent of total capitalization was 18% at June 30, 2002 as compared with 20% at June 30, 2001, primarily as a result of higher total capital. 25 Net cash provided by operating activities was $518.0 million in fiscal 2002 as compared with $305.4 million in fiscal 2001 and $442.5 million in fiscal 2000. This improvement in net cash flows was generated primarily by a reduction of inventory. Inventory levels were unseasonably high at the end of fiscal 2001 and were lowered during the current fiscal year as part of our ongoing effort to keep inventory levels in line with forecasted sales. Operating cash flows were generally not impacted by the fiscal 2002 restructuring as lower net earnings were offset by the non cash portion of the charge and the increase in other accrued liabilities. We expect the settlement of these accrued charges to result in a lower level of cash flow provided by operating activities in fiscal 2003. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2001 as compared to fiscal 2000 reflected an increase in inventory primarily due to accelerated growth both in new distribution channels and in the rollout of new brands; a shift in the timing of Christmas production at the end of fiscal 2001 as compared with the prior year; reconfiguration of some of our distribution to improve service levels; and softer retail sales than projected in the Americas. Accounts receivable increased due to sales growth, particularly outside the United States, and the timing of shipments as compared with fiscal 2000. The decrease in other accrued liabilities in fiscal 2001 reflected the type and timing of various expenditures and the tightening of spending, particularly in the Americas, due to the difficult retail environment, partially offset by a $35.2 million accrual for restructuring and other non recurring expenses. Net cash used for investing activities was $217.0 million in fiscal 2002, compared with $206.3 million in fiscal 2001 and $374.3 million in fiscal 2000. Net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2002 is comparable to fiscal 2001 and relates primarily to capital expenditures in both periods. Investment spending in fiscal 2000 reflected capital expenditures and the acquisitions of Stila, Jo Malone, Gloss.com and Bumble and bumble, as well as certain Aveda distributors. Capital expenditures amounted to $203.2 million, $192.2 million and $180.9 million in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Spending in all three years primarily reflected the continued upgrade of manufacturing equipment, dies and molds, new store openings, store improvements, counter construction and information technology enhancements. Cash used for financing activities was $121.8 million, $63.5 million and $87.9 million in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Cash used for financing during fiscal 2002 and 2000 primarily relates to dividend payments and common stock repurchases. The cash used in fiscal 2001 was primarily related to dividend payments. In September 1998, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program. We have purchased, and may continue to purchase, over an unspecified period of time, a total of up to eight million shares of Class A Common Stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions and other factors. During fiscal 2002, we purchased 1.5 million shares for $49.7 million. As of June 30, 2002, we have purchased approximately 2.6 million shares under this program. Subsequent to year end, we purchased an additional 4.4 million shares for $138.1 million bringing the cumulative total of acquired shares to 7.0 million. The Board of Directors declared, and we paid, quarterly dividends on our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock at the rate of $.05 per share in each quarter of fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000. In fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, dividends declared on our common stock totaled $47.5 million, $47.7 million and $47.5 million, respectively. In May 2002, we announced that, after declaring the $.05 per share quarterly dividend paid on July 2, 2002, the Board of Directors determined that it would pay future cash dividends on its common stock annually rather than quarterly. We expect that the Board of Directors will declare the first annual dividend of $.20 per share in the second quarter of fiscal 2003, so it will be payable in January 2003. Accordingly, we expect total dividends paid on the Common Stock in fiscal 2003 to amount to $.25 per share. Total dividends declared, including dividends on the $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, were $70.9 million, $71.1 million and $70.9 million in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. We will be required to redeem the outstanding $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock on June 30, 2005. However, in the event that Mrs. Estee Lauder were to pass away before such date, then we would have the right to redeem the shares from the current holders, and the holders of such shares would have the right to put the shares to us, at $100 per share (or an aggregate of $360.0 million). If shares of $6.50 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock are put to us, we would have up to 120 days after notice to purchase such shares. The effects of inflation have not been significant to our overall operating results in recent years. Generally, we have been able to increase selling prices sufficiently to offset cost increases, which have been moderate. We believe that cash on hand, cash generated from operations, available credit lines and access to credit markets will be adequate to support currently planned business operations and capital expenditures on both a near term and long term basis. 26 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS We address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We primarily enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. We categorize these instruments as entered into for purposes other than trading. For each derivative contract we enter into, we formally document the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair value, cash flow, or foreign currency hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. We also formally assess, both at the hedges inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective, then we will be required to discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that derivative prospectively. FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT We enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge anticipated transactions as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies for periods consistent with our identified exposures. The purpose of the hedging activities is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on our costs and on the cash flows that we receive from foreign subsidiaries. Almost all foreign currency contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries and are with large financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a major rating agency. We also enter into foreign currency options to hedge anticipated transactions where there is a high probability that anticipated exposures will materialize. The forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options have been designated as cash flow hedges. As of June 30, 2002, these cash flow hedges were highly effective, in all material respects. As a matter of policy, we only enter into contracts with counterparties that have at least an "A" (or equivalent) credit rating. The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions. We do not have significant exposure to any one counterparty. Our exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by any of the counterparties is limited to only the recognized, but not realized, gains attributable to the contracts. Management believes risk of loss under these hedging contracts is remote and in any event would not be material to the consolidated financial results. The contracts have varying maturities through the end of July 2003. Costs associated with entering into such contracts have not been material to our consolidated financial results. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. At June 30, 2002, we had foreign currency contracts in the form of forward exchange contracts in the amount of $227.2 million. The foreign currencies included in these contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the Japanese yen ($70.7 million), Euro ($31.7 million), British pound ($26.2 million), Australian dollar ($16.0 million), Swiss franc ($11.8 million), Danish krone ($11.6 million) and Canadian dollar ($10.5 million). INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT In February 2002, we paid off our outstanding term loan, which had a floating interest rate, with the proceeds from our January 2002 public debt offering of 6% Senior Notes. As a result, we terminated the interest rate swaps and options that were previously outstanding to mitigate interest rate volatility. No material gain or loss resulted from the termination of those contracts. MARKET RISK We use a value at risk model to assess the market risk of our derivative financial instruments. Value at risk represents the potential losses for an instrument or portfolio from adverse changes in market factors for a specified time period and confidence level. We estimate value at risk across all of our derivative financial instruments using a model with historical volatilities and correlations calculated over the past 250 day period. The measured value at risk, calculated as an average, for the twelve months ended June 30, 2002, related to our foreign exchange contracts, using a variance/co variance model with a 95 percent confidence level and assuming normal market conditions, was $10.0 million. Our calculated value at risk exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on our portfolio of derivative financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may or may not occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures, and the timing thereof, and changes in the portfolio of derivative financial instruments during the year. We believe, however, that any loss incurred would be offset by the effects of market rate movements on the respective underlying transactions for which the hedge is intended. 27 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Effective July 1, 2001, we adopted SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets". These statements established financial accounting and reporting standards for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. Specifically, the standards address how acquired intangible assets should be accounted for both at the time of acquisition and after they have been recognized in the financial statements. The provisions of SFAS No. 141 apply to all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, intangible assets, including purchased goodwill, must be evaluated for impairment. Those intangible assets that will continue to be classified as goodwill or as other intangibles with indefinite lives are no longer amortized. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, we completed our transitional impairment testing of intangible assets during the first quarter of fiscal 2002. That effort, and preliminary assessments of our identifiable intangible assets, indicated that little or no adjustment would be required upon adoption of this pronouncement. The impairment testing is performed in two steps: (i) we determine impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value, and (ii) if there is an impairment, we measure the amount of impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2002, with the assistance of a third party valuation firm, we finalized the testing of goodwill. Using conservative, but realistic assumptions to model our jane business, we determined that the carrying value of this unit was slightly greater than the derived fair value, indicating an impairment in the recorded goodwill. To determine fair value, we relied on three valuation models: guideline public companies, acquisition analysis and discounted cash flow. For goodwill valuation purposes only, the revised fair value of this unit was allocated to the assets and liabilities of the business unit to arrive at an implied fair value of goodwill, based upon known facts and circumstances, as if the acquisition occurred currently. This allocation resulted in a write down of recorded goodwill in the amount of $20.6 million, which has been reported as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, as of July 1, 2001, in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings. On a product category basis, this write down would have primarily impacted our makeup category. The following table presents adjusted net earnings and earnings per share data restated to include the retroactive impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 142. YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) Reported Net Earnings before Accounting Change ....... $212.5 $307.4 $314.1 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax ................. (20.6) (2.2) Net Earnings ....................................... 191.9 305.2 314.1 Preferred stock dividends .......................... 23.4 23.4 23.4 Reported Net Earnings Attributable to Common Stock ... 168.5 281.8 290.7 Add back: Goodwill amortization, net of tax .................. 13.4 11.1 Adjusted Net Earnings ................................ $168.5 $295.2 $301.8 BASIC NET EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE: Reported net earnings attributable to common stock before accounting change ............ $ .79 $ 1.19 $ 1.22 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax ............................ (.08) (.01) Net earnings attributable to common stock .......... .71 1.18 1.22 Goodwill amortization, net of tax .................. .06 .05 Adjusted net earnings attributable to common stock .................................. $ .71 $ 1.24 $ 1.27 28 YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 2002 2001 2000 DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE: Reported net earnings attributable to common stock before accounting change .... $ .78 $ 1.17 $ 1.20 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax ......... (.08) (.01) Net earnings attributable to common stock ... .70 1.16 1.20 Goodwill amortization, net of tax ........... .06 .04 Adjusted net earnings attributable to common stock .......................... $ .70 $ 1.22 $ 1.24 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic ....................................... 238.2 238.4 237.7 Diluted ..................................... 241.1 242.2 242.5 Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 01 9, "Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer", which codified and reconciled the following EITF Issues: Issue No. 00 14, "Accounting for Certain Sales Incentives", Issue No. 00 22, "Accounting for Points and Certain Other Time Based or Volume Based Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services to be Delivered in the Future" and Issue No. 00 25, "Vendor Income Statement Characterization of Consideration Paid to a Reseller of the Vendors Products". Issue No. 00 14 addressed when sales incentives and discounts should be recognized, as well as where the related revenues and expenses should be classified in the financial statements. Upon adoption of this Issue, we reclassified revenues generated from our purchase with purchase activities as sales and the costs of our purchase with purchase and gift with purchase activities as cost of sales, which were previously reported net as operating expenses. Operating income has remained unchanged by this adoption. These reclassifications have been reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of earnings retroactively for all periods reported. In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets". This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets. SFAS No. 144 will be effective for financial statements relating to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. We will adopt this statement for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2003 and do not anticipate that it will have a material impact on our consolidated financial results. In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities". This statement covers restructuring type activities beginning with plans initiated after December 31, 2002. Should we enter into activities covered by this standard after that date, the provisions of SFAS No. 146 would be applied. As a result of this standard, there is no impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. 29 FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION We and our representatives from time to time make written or oral forward looking statements, including statements contained in this and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in our reports to stockholders. The words and phrases "will likely result," "expect," "believe," "planned," "will," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimates," "projects" or similar expressions are intended to identify "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, without limitation, our expectations regarding sales, earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, product introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information systems initiatives, new methods of sale and future operations or operating results. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations, actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, without limitation: (i) increased competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than we do; (ii) our ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating results may depend; (iii) consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing a decrease in the number of stores that sell our products, an increase in the ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by our competitors and ownership of competitors by our customers that are retailers; (iv) shifts in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of products and services we sell; (v) social, political and economic risks to our foreign or domestic manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States; (vi) changes in the laws, regulations and policies, including changes in accounting standards and trade rules, and legal or regulatory proceedings, that affect, or will affect, our business; (vii) foreign currency fluctuations affecting our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and our operating and manufacturing costs outside of the United States; (viii) changes in global or local economic conditions that could affect consumer purchasing, the financial strength of our customers, the cost and availability of capital, which we may need for new equipment, facilities or acquisitions, and the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates; (ix) shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from disruptions of operations at any of the facilities which, due to consolidations in our manufacturing operations, now manufacture nearly all of our supply of a particular type of product (i.e. focus factories); (x) real estate rates and availability, which may affect our ability to increase the number of retail locations at which we sell our products; (xi) changes in product mix to products which are less profitable; (xii) our ability to acquire or develop e commerce capabilities, and other new information and distribution technologies, on a timely basis and within our cost estimates; (xiii) our ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as globalization, and to integrate acquired businesses and realize value therefrom; and (xiv) consequences attributable to the events that took place in New York City and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, including further attacks, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation. We assume no responsibility to update forward looking statements made herein or otherwise. 30 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. The information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the captions "Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk" and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
