Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition at June 30, 2007 and our results of operations for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in those financial statements. These judgments can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. Our most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, concentration of credit risk, inventory, pension and other post retirement benefit costs, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, derivatives and stock based compensation. Management of the Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Revenues from merchandise sales are recognized upon transfer of ownership, including passage of title to the customer and transfer of the risk of loss related to those goods. In the Americas region, sales are generally recognized at the time the product is shipped to the customer and in the Europe, Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific regions sales are generally recognized based upon the customers receipt. In certain circumstances, transfer of title takes place at the point of sale, for example, at our retail stores. Sales at our retail stores and online are recognized in accordance with a 4 4 5 retail calendar. Revenues are reported on a net sales basis, which is computed by deducting from gross sales the amount of actual product returns received, discounts, incentive arrangements with retailers and an amount established for anticipated product returns. Our practice is to accept product returns from retailers only if properly requested, authorized and approved. In accepting returns, we typically provide a credit to the retailer against accounts receivable from that retailer. As a percentage of gross sales, returns were 4.2%, 5.0% and 4.6% in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our sales return accrual is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net sales. This accrual is calculated based on a history of actual returns, estimated future returns and information provided by authorized retailers regarding their inventory levels. Consideration of these factors results in an accrual for anticipated sales returns that reflects increases or decreases related to seasonal fluctuations. Experience has shown a relationship between retailer inventory levels and sales returns in the subsequent period, as well as a consistent pattern of returns due to the seasonal nature of our business. In addition, as necessary, specific accruals may be established for significant future known or anticipated events. The types of known or anticipated events that we have considered, and will continue to consider, include, but are not limited to, the financial condition of our customers, store closings by retailers, changes in the retail environment and our decision to continue or support new and existing products. Concentration of Credit Risk An entity is vulnerable to concentration of credit risk if it is exposed to risks of loss greater than it would have if it mitigated its risks through diversification of customers. The significance of such credit risk depends on the extent and nature of the concentration. During fiscal 2006, Federated Department Stores, Inc. acquired The May Department Stores Company, resulting in the merger of our previous two largest customers (collectively Macys, Inc.). This customer sells products primarily within North America and accounted for $958.8 million, or 14%, and $1,005.8 million, or 16%, of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. This customer accounted for $105.3 million, or 12%, and $105.4 million, or 14%, of our accounts receivable at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Although management believes that this customer and our other major customers are sound and creditworthy, a severe adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our net sales, cash flows and or financial condition. In the ordinary course of business, we have established an allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions in the amount of $23.3 million and $27.1 million as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our allowance for doubtful accounts is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net earnings. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $18.2 million, $12.0 million and $12.6 million for customer deductions and write offs in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and increased by $14.4 million, $10.2 million and $11.4 million for additional provisions in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. This reserve is based upon the evaluation of accounts receivable aging, specific exposures and historical trends. Inventory We state our inventory at the lower of cost or fair market value, with cost being determined on the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe FIFO most closely matches the flow of our products from manufacture through sale. The reported net value of our inventory includes saleable products, promotional products, raw materials and componentry and work in process that will be sold or used in future periods. Inventory cost includes raw materials, direct labor and overhead. 21 We also record an inventory obsolescence reserve, which represents the difference between the cost of the inventory and its estimated realizable value, based on various product sales projections. This reserve is calculated using an estimated obsolescence percentage applied to the inventory based on age, historical trends and requirements to support forecasted sales. In addition, and as necessary, we may establish specific reserves for future known or anticipated events. Pension and Other Post retirement Benefit Costs We offer the following benefits to some or all of our employees: a domestic trust based noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (U.S. Qualified Plan) and an unfunded, non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations (collectively with the U.S. Qualified Plan, the Domestic Plans); a domestic contributory defined contribution plan; international pension plans, which vary by country, consisting of both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans; deferred compensation arrangements; and certain other post retirement benefit plans. The amounts needed to fund future payouts under these plans are subject to numerous assumptions and variables. Certain significant variables require us to make assumptions that are within our control such as an anticipated discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and future compensation levels. We evaluate these assumptions with our actuarial advisors and we believe they are within accepted industry ranges, although an increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our control could have a direct impact on reported net earnings. The pre retirement discount rate for each plan used for determining future net periodic benefit cost is based on a review of highly rated long term bonds. For fiscal 2007, we used a pre retirement discount rate for our Domestic Plans of 6.25% and varying rates on our international plans of between 2.25% and 6.25%. The pre retirement rate for our Domestic Plans is based on a bond portfolio that includes only long term bonds with an Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency. We believe the timing and amount of cash flows related to the bonds included in this portfolio is expected to match the estimated defined benefit payment streams of our Domestic Plans. For fiscal 2007, we used an expected return on plan assets of 7.75% for our U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates of between 2.75% and 7.25% for our international plans. In determining the long term rate of return for a plan, we consider the historical rates of return, the nature of the plans investments and an expectation for the plans investment strategies. The U.S. Qualified Plan asset allocation as of June 30, 2007 was approximately 49% equity investments, 31% fixed income investments and 20% other investments. The asset allocation of our combined international plans as of June 30, 2007 was approximately 55% equity investments, 29% fixed income investments and 16% other investments. The difference between actual and expected returns on plan assets is accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, affects our recorded obligations and recognized expenses in such future periods. For fiscal 2007, our pension plans had actual returns on assets of $80.1 million as compared with expected returns on assets of $42.5 million, which resulted in a net deferred gain of $37.6 million. A 25 basis point change in the discount rate or the expected rate of return on plan assets would have had the following effect on fiscal 2007 pension expense: 25 Basis Point 25 Basis Point (In millions) Increase Decrease Discount rate $ (2.5 ) $ 2.7 Expected return on assets $ (1.5 ) $ 1.5 Our post retirement plans are comprised of health care plans that could be impacted by health care cost trend rates, which may have a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates for fiscal 2007 would have had the following effects: (In millions) One Percentage Point Increase One Percentage Point Decrease Effect on total service and interest costs $ 1.5 $ (1.3 ) Effect on post retirement benefit obligations $ 12.1 $ (10.8 ) For fiscal 2008, we are using a pre retirement discount rate for the Domestic Plans of 6.25% and varying rates for our international plans of between 2.25% and 6.25%. We are using an expected return on plan assets of 7.75% for the U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates for our international pension plans of between 3.00% and 6.75%. The net change in these assumptions from those used in fiscal 2007 will result in a decrease in pension expense of approximately $2.0 million in fiscal 2008. We will continue to monitor the market conditions relative to these assumptions and adjust them accordingly. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the fair value of their underlying net assets. Other intangible assets principally consist of purchased royalty rights and trademarks. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite life are not amortized. 22 On an annual basis, or more frequently if certain events or circumstances warrant, we test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. To determine the fair value of these intangible assets, there are many assumptions and estimates used that directly impact the results of the testing. We have the ability to influence the outcome and ultimate results based on the assumptions and estimates we choose. To mitigate undue influence, we use industry accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by various levels of management and, in certain instances, we engage third party valuation specialists to advise us. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, as amended. This statement establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effects of income taxes that result from an enterprises activities during the current and preceding years. It requires an asset and liability approach for financial accounting and reporting of income taxes. As of June 30, 2007, we have current net deferred tax assets of $124.0 million and non current net deferred tax liabilities of $16.6 million. The net deferred tax assets assume sufficient future earnings for their realization, as well as the continued application of currently anticipated tax rates. Included in net deferred tax assets is a valuation allowance of approximately $5.5 million for deferred tax assets, where management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the relevant jurisdiction. Based on our assessments, no additional valuation allowance is required. If we determine that a deferred tax asset will not be realizable, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will result in a reduction of earnings at that time. We provide tax reserves for Federal, state, local and international exposures relating to periods subject to audit. The development of reserves for these exposures requires judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical estimate. Although the outcome relating to these exposures is uncertain, in managements opinion adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for estimable potential liabilities emanating from these exposures. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties which render them inestimable. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, including those that cannot be quantified, they could have a material impact on our results of operations, as we experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Results of Operations, Fiscal 2006 as Compared with Fiscal 2005 Provision for Income Taxes). Derivatives We account for derivative financial instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. This statement also requires the recognition of all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and that they be measured at fair value. We currently use derivative financial instruments to hedge certain anticipated transactions and interest rates, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. We do not utilize derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Hedge effectiveness is documented, assessed and monitored by employees who are qualified to make such assessments and monitor the instruments. Variables that are external to us such as social, political and economic risks may have an impact on our hedging program and the results thereof. For a discussion on the quantitative impact of market risks related to our derivative financial instruments, refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk. Stock Based Compensation We are required to record the fair value of stock based compensation awards as an expense in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, as amended. In order to determine the fair value of stock options on the date of grant, we apply the Black Scholes option pricing model. Inherent in this model are assumptions related to expected stock price volatility, option life, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. While the risk free interest rate and dividend yield are less subjective assumptions that are based on factual data derived from public sources, the expected stock price volatility and option life assumptions require a greater level of judgment which makes them critical accounting estimates. We use an expected stock price volatility assumption that is a combination of both current and historical implied volatilities of the underlying stock which are obtained from public data sources. This approach is used as a predictor of future realized and implied volatilities and is directly related to stock option valuation. For stock option grants issued during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, we used a weighted average expected stock price volatility of 24% based upon the implied volatility at the time of issuance. With regard to the weighted average option life assumption, we consider the exercise behavior of past grants and model the pattern of aggregate exercises. Patterns are determined based on specific criteria of the aggregate pool of optionees including the reaction to vesting, realizable value, long run exercise propensity, pent up demand, stock run up effect and short time to maturity effect. For stock option grants issued during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, we used a weighted average expected option life assumption of approximately 8 years. 23 While we believe the above critical estimates are based on outcomes that are reasonably likely to occur, if we were to increase or decrease the expected option life by one year and simultaneously increase or decrease the expected volatility by 100 basis points, recognized compensation expense would have changed approximately $2.0 million in either direction for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. Quantitative Analysis During the three year period ended June 30, 2007, there have not been material changes in the assumptions underlying these critical accounting policies, nor to the related significant estimates. With the exception of our tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, which finalized the ultimate liability for exposures which were previously inestimable (see Results of Operations, Fiscal 2006 as Compared with Fiscal 2005 Provision for Income Taxes), the results of our business underlying these assumptions have not differed significantly from our expectations. While we believe that the estimates that we have made are proper and the related results of operations for the period are presented fairly in all material respects, other assumptions could reasonably be justified that would change the amount of reported net sales, cost of sales, operating expenses or our provision for income taxes as they relate to the provisions for anticipated sales returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory obsolescence reserve and income taxes. For fiscal 2007, had these estimates been changed simultaneously by 2.5% in either direction, our reported gross profit would have increased or decreased by approximately $4.7 million, operating expenses would have changed by approximately $0.6 million and the provision for income taxes would have increased or decreased by approximately $1.4 million. The collective impact of these changes on operating income, net earnings and net earnings per diluted common share would be an increase or decrease of approximately $5.3 million, $6.7 million and $.03, respectively. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We manufacture, market and sell skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products which are distributed in over 135 countries and territories. We believe that the best way to increase stockholder value is to provide our customers and consumers with the products and services that they have come to expect from us in the most efficient and profitable manner. With this goal in mind, we have developed a long term strategy based on the following five imperatives: 1. Optimize brand portfolio 2. Strengthen product categories 3. Strengthen and expand geographic presence 4. Diversify and strengthen distribution channels 5. Achieve operational and cost excellence In fiscal 2007, we continued to find ways to strengthen our core brands and product categories, maximize high growth brands, incubate and develop next generation brands and divest non strategic brands. Net sales from Este Lauder and Clinique grew on a global basis, fueled by strong demand overseas. Our faster growing M.A.C., Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone and Aveda brands continued to grow in virtually all regions and we acquired the remaining equity interest in Bumble and bumble. Sean John Unforgivable continued to be a success at retail in North America and we rolled out the brand in certain international markets during fiscal 2007. We launched products under the Tom Ford brand name in North America and Europe and entered into a license agreement with Ford Motor Company to create a fragrance using the name Mustang. In July 2007, we acquired the Ojon Corporation, a privately held hair care and skin care company based in Canada. In August 2007, we sold Rodan + Fields back to its founders. The majority of our net sales continue to be generated outside the United States. Around the globe, we generated growth in sales and profits in our travel retail business and increased our presence in China and Russia. We also acquired a distributor in Turkey and established an affiliate in Brazil. In alternative distribution channels, we continued to grow our online business in North America, where products from most of our brands are available at Company owned websites. However, in order to streamline this business, we terminated our majority owned Gloss.com joint venture. In addition, we recently expanded the online business into the United Kingdom, Australia and France. Certain of our products are now available at specialty retailers such as Sephora, ULTA, and Shoppers Drug Mart. We made strategic investments to establish the platform upon which we intend to build our pharmacy channel business in Europe. Origins has recently expanded into the French pharmacy channel. We also began to expand the number of Company owned Jo Malone retail stores in Europe, including the brands first French store in Cannes. We continued to make progress on our Strategic Modernization Initiative (SMI). In May 2007, our Aveda operating unit began using SAP software, a critical part of SMI. We anticipate SMI implementation will continue at additional locations in fiscal 2008, with the majority of our locations to be implemented through fiscal 2010. 24 Despite the rise in energy and raw material costs, we were able to improve our overall cost of goods margin by negotiating new contracts with suppliers and achieving significant savings by sourcing from Asia. We also reduced the number of our global manufacturing and distribution facilities by increasing the use of third parties to control shipping and warehousing costs. In addition, we improved speed to market of new SKUs and expanded our hub warehouse concept, which allows us to take components on a just in time basis. During fiscal 2007, we also faced challenges, many of which we expect to be ongoing in fiscal 2008. For instance, we continue to see challenges for certain of our core brands due in part to the consolidation and changes taking place among retailers and the decline in effectiveness of gift with purchase promotions. In addition, the fragrance business model continues to be a challenge, with even the most successful launches having difficulty becoming profitable. Efforts to expand geographically are complicated by increasing regulatory issues and cultural barriers. As we continue to implement our strategic imperatives, we expect to make selective investments, embark on new business endeavors, and pursue initiatives that we believe will have long term benefits. The timing, impact and magnitude of any particular actions, such as an acquisition to strengthen our product categories and or diversify our distribution channels, are subject to numerous factors and cannot be predicted. The following table is a comparative summary of operating results from continuing operations for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 and reflects the basis of presentation described in Note 2 and Note 17 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented. Products and services that do not meet our definition of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care have been included in the other category. Year Ended June 30 2007 2006 2005 (In millions) NET SALES By Region: The Americas $ 3,560.9 $ 3,446.4 $ 3,351.1 Europe, the Middle East & Africa 2,493.4 2,147.7 2,109.1 Asia/Pacific 983.2 869.7 819.8 $ 7,037.5 $ 6,463.8 $ 6,280.0 By Product Category: Skin Care $ 2,601.0 $ 2,400.8 $ 2,352.1 Makeup 2,712.7 2,504.2 2,366.8 Fragrance 1,308.6 1,213.3 1,260.6 Hair Care 377.1 318.7 273.9 Other 38.1 26.8 26.6 $ 7,037.5 $ 6,463.8 $ 6,280.0 OPERATING INCOME By Region: The Americas $ 336.4 $ 344.1 $ 366.2 Europe, the Middle East & Africa 321.4 297.5 305.3 Asia/Pacific 93.2 70.1 55.3 Special charges related to cost savings initiative * (1.1 ) (92.1 ) $ 749.9 $ 619.6 $ 726.8 By Product Category: Skin Care $ 341.5 $ 346.4 $ 365.8 Makeup 339.3 329.4 301.1 Fragrance 28.1 7.7 35.8 Hair Care 42.5 26.5 22.8 Other (0.4 ) 1.7 1.3 Special charges related to cost savings initiative * (1.1 ) (92.1 ) $ 749.9 $ 619.6 $ 726.8 * Refer to the following discussion in Fiscal 2006 as Compared with Fiscal 2005 Operating Expenses for further information regarding these charges. 25 The following table presents certain consolidated earnings data as a percentage of net sales: Year Ended June 30 2007 2006 2005 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 25.2 26.1 25.5 Gross profit 74.8 73.9 74.5 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 64.1 62.9 62.9 Special charges related to cost savings initiative 1.4 64.1 64.3 62.9 Operating income 10.7 9.6 11.6 Interest expense, net 0.6 0.4 0.2 Earnings before income taxes, minority interest and discontinued operations 10.1 9.2 11.4 Provision for income taxes 3.6 4.0 4.7 Minority interest, net of tax (0.1 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) Net earnings from continuing operations 6.4 5.0 6.5 Discontinued operations, net of tax (1.2 ) (0.1 ) Net earnings 6.4 % 3.8 % 6.4 % In order to meet the demands of consumers, we continually introduce new products, support new and established products through advertising, sampling and merchandising and phase out existing products that no longer meet the needs of our consumers. The economics of developing, producing, launching and supporting products influence our sales and operating performance each period. The introduction of new products may have some cannibalizing effect on sales of existing products, which we take into account in our business planning. Fiscal 2007 as Compared with Fiscal 2006 NET SALES Net sales increased 9%, or $573.7 million, to $7,037.5 million, reflecting net sales growth in all product categories and geographic regions. The increases in our skin care, makeup and fragrance product categories were led by Europe, the Middle East & Africa while the increase in hair care net sales was predominantly in the Americas. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales increased 7%. Product Categories Skin Care Net sales of skin care products increased 8%, or $200.2 million, to $2,601.0 million. Most of this growth was fueled by new product launches which made their most significant impact in our Europe, the Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific regions. The recent launches of Advanced Night Repair Concentrate Recovery Boosting Treatment and Idealist Refinisher from Este Lauder, and Repairwear Lift Firming Night Cream, Continuous Rescue Antioxidant Moisturizer, All About Eyes Rich and Repairwear Contour Firming Formula from Clinique contributed incremental sales of approximately $95 million, combined. Net sales increases from our fast growing La Mer brand, Resilience Lift Extreme Ultra Firming products and other existing Advanced Night Repair products from Este Lauder, along with products in the Clinique 3 Step Skin Care System and Superdefense from Clinique, totaled approximately $97 million. These improvements were partially offset by approximately $35 million of lower sales from certain other Resilience Lift products and Perfectionist [CP+] from Este Lauder. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net sales increased 6%. 26 Makeup Makeup net sales increased 8%, or $208.5 million, to $2,712.7 million, reflecting growth from our makeup artist brands of approximately $191 million. This increase was supported by new points of distribution and new product launches as well as MAC Viva Glam lip products, the proceeds of which are donated to AIDS related charities. Higher sales of Double Wear Foundation and the recent launch of Resilience Lift Extreme Ultra Firming Makeup SPF 15 by Este Lauder contributed approximately $56 million to the growth in this product category. Lower sales of approximately $35 million of Pure Color Gloss and Individualist Natural Finish Makeup by Este Lauder, and Repairwear Anti Aging Makeup SPF 15 by Clinique partially offset this growth. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, makeup net sales increased 6%. Fragrance Net sales of fragrance products increased 8%, or $95.3 million, to $1,308.6 million, primarily driven by incremental international sales from newer fragrance offerings. DKNY Red Delicious, Pure White Linen from Este Lauder, Sean John Unforgivable, DKNY Red Delicious Men and Donna Karan Gold collectively contributed approximately $128 million to the category. Lower sales of approximately $67 million of True Star and True Star Men by Tommy Hilfiger, and Este Lauder pleasures partially offset the growth in this product category. While current year sales levels compared favorably to the prior year, we anticipate continued challenges in this product category due in part to competitive dynamics, particularly in the United States. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, fragrance net sales increased 5%. Hair Care Hair care net sales increased 18%, or $58.4 million, to $377.1 million, primarily due to sales growth from Aveda and Bumble and bumble products. Aveda net sales increases were primarily due to sales of professional color products, the recent launch of Be Curly shampoo and conditioner and the acquisition of an independent distributor. Bumble and bumble sales benefited from a new hotel amenities program, sales growth in its existing salon distribution and new points of distribution. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, hair care net sales increased 17%. Geographic Regions Net sales in the Americas increased 3%, or $114.5 million, to $3,560.9 million. The increase was led by growth in the United States of approximately $152 million from our makeup artist brands, our hair care business, our internet distribution, and the recent launch of the Unforgivable fragrance by Sean John. Partially offsetting this growth was approximately $90 million related to weaknesses in our core brands as a result of competitive pressures and retailer consolidations. Net sales growth in Canada, Latin America and Mexico contributed an additional $31 million to the increase. The prior year results reflected an incremental provision of approximately $16 million for returns that were anticipated at that time as a result of then announced store closings from retailer consolidations. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, net sales increased 16%, or $345.7 million, to $2,493.4 million, including an exchange rate benefit due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar of approximately $122 million. The growth in the region reflected higher net sales of approximately $260 million in the United Kingdom, our travel retail business, Russia, Germany and Spain, with all benefiting from an improving retail environment, and in Turkey, where we acquired a distributor. On a local currency basis, net sales in Europe, the Middle East & Africa increased 10%. Net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 13%, or $113.5 million, to $983.2 million. The growth in this region reflected higher net sales of approximately $86 million in Korea, China, Hong Kong and Australia. These markets benefited from an improved economy across the region while Chinas growth in net sales primarily reflected our continuing strategic expansion in this country. We also experienced modest sales growth in Japan, our largest market in this region. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 11%. We strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in regional sales growth. COST OF SALES Cost of sales as a percentage of total net sales decreased to 25.2% as compared with 26.1% in the prior year. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales reflected a favorable change in the mix of our business of approximately 40 basis points, a decrease in the level and timing of promotional activities of approximately 20 basis points, the effect of exchange rate translation of approximately 20 basis points and a decrease in obsolescence charges of approximately 10 basis points. Certain of these items reflect savings achieved during the current period from our cost savings initiative, which commenced during fiscal 2006. Since certain promotional activities are a component of sales or cost of sales and the timing and level of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of sales percentage. In addition, future cost of sales mix may be impacted by the inclusion of new brands which have margin and product cost structures different from those of our existing brands. 27 Operating Expenses Operating expenses improved to 64.1% of net sales as compared with 64.3% of net sales in the prior year. During the prior year, we recorded a $92.1 million charge to operating expenses related to the implementation of our cost savings initiative that negatively impacted our operating expense margin by approximately 140 basis points. Partially offsetting this improvement was an increase of approximately 50 basis points in selling, general and administrative expenses reflecting higher demonstration, field selling and training costs in support of our business. In fiscal 2007, our operating expense margin was negatively impacted by approximately 40 basis points resulting from expenses related to our pharmacy channel for organizational costs, costs to streamline the distribution of goods, and the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. An increase in costs incurred related to the implementation of our Strategic Modernization Initiative and higher stock based compensation expenses lowered our operating expense margin by approximately 20 additional basis points, combined. Overall operating expenses reflected savings achieved during the current period from our cost savings initiative, which commenced during fiscal 2006. Changes in advertising, merchandising and sampling spending result from the type, timing and level of activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets being emphasized. Operating Results Due to the growth in net sales and the decreases in our cost of sales and operating expense margins as previously discussed, operating income increased 21%, or $130.3 million, to $749.9 million as compared with the prior year. Operating margins were 10.7% of net sales as compared with 9.6% in the prior year, which was negatively impacted by 1.4% of net sales as a result of the special charge related to our cost savings initiative. The following discussions of Operating Results by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of special charges related to our cost savings initiative of $1.1 million and $92.1 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We believe the following analysis of operating results better reflects the manner in which we conduct and view our business. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Segment Data and Related Information. Product Categories Fragrance operating results increased over 100%, or $20.4 million, to $28.1 million, as profits from higher international net sales and lower spending at certain of our core brands in the United States more than offset spending behind new and developing brands. Hair care operating results grew 60%, or $16.0 million, to $42.5 million as the increase in net sales outpaced increased spending in support of new distribution points and product launches. Operating results increased 3%, or $9.9 million, to $339.3 million in makeup, primarily as a result of higher net sales and profits from our makeup artist brands, which more than offset challenges among certain core brands. Skin care operating results decreased 1%, or $4.9 million, to $341.5 million. The results in this product category were negatively impacted in fiscal 2007 by charges related to our pharmacy channel. We recorded approximately $30 million for organizational costs, costs to streamline the distribution of goods, and the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, improvements in international skin care results were partially offset by challenges in certain core brands in the United States. Geographic Regions Operating income in the Americas decreased 2%, or $7.7 million, to $336.4 million, reflecting spending behind strategic initiatives at our core brands, retailer consolidation and costs to develop new brands in the United States. Operating income growth from our makeup artist brands, hair care business and our internet distribution partially offset these results. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income increased 8%, or $23.9 million, to $321.4 million primarily due to higher results of approximately $49 million from our travel retail business, the United Kingdom, Russia and Germany. Lower results from France partially offset these improvements by approximately $10 million. The current year operating results in France reflected the rebalancing of inventory levels at certain retailers as well as strategic investment spending behind the field sales force. During the current year, the region was negatively impacted by the charges discussed above related to our pharmacy channel, partially offset by modest combined operating income growth from the remaining affiliates in this region. In Asia/Pacific, operating income increased 33%, or $23.1 million, to $93.2 million. This increase reflected improved results of approximately $23 million in Hong Kong, China, Australia and Korea. 28 Interest Expense, Net Net interest expense was $38.9 million as compared with $23.8 million in the prior year. This change primarily resulted from higher average debt balances, primarily associated with the funding of our accelerated share repurchase program, and higher average interest rates. Also contributing to the increase was reduced interest income generated from lower average investment balances internationally, partially offset by higher average investment rates. These increases were partially offset by the capitalization of interest expense on internally developed software in connection with the upgrade of our information systems. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The effective rate differs from statutory rates due to the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate will change from quarter to quarter based on non recurring and recurring factors including, but not limited to, the geographical mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation, state and local taxes, tax audit settlements and the interaction of various global tax strategies. The effective rate for income taxes for the year ended June 30, 2007 was 35.9% as compared with 43.6% in the prior year. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily attributable to the prior year effect of the IRS tax settlement of approximately 770 basis points. Discontinued Operations On September 30, 2005, we committed to a plan to sell and on April 10, 2006, we completed the sale of certain assets and operations of our reporting unit that marketed and sold Stila brand products. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, $0.5 million, net of tax, of operating income was reflected as discontinued operations, reflecting the conclusion of transitional distribution services provided to the purchaser. The prior year charge of $80.3 million, net of tax, reflected the then anticipated loss on the sale of the business of $69.9 million, net of tax, and the operating loss of $10.4 million, net of tax. Net Earnings Net earnings as compared with the prior fiscal year increased $205.0 million to $449.2 million and diluted net earnings per common share improved 93% from $1.12 to $2.16. Net earnings from continuing operations as compared with the prior fiscal year increased by $124.2 million, or 38%, to $448.7 million and diluted net earnings per common share from continuing operations increased 45% from $1.49 to $2.16. Fiscal 2006 as Compared with Fiscal 2005 Net Sales Net sales increased 3%, or $183.8 million, to $6,463.8 million due to growth in our makeup, skin care and hair care product categories, which was partially offset by lower sales in our fragrance product category. The net increase reflected sales growth in all geographic regions. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales increased 4%. Product Categories Skin Care Net sales of skin care products increased 2%, or $48.7 million, to $2,400.8 million primarily due to new product launches. The fiscal 2006 launches of Resilience Lift Extreme Ultra Firming Cremes and Re Nutriv Ultimate Lifting Serum by Este Lauder, and Turnaround Concentrate Visible Skin Renewer and Turnaround 15 Minute Facial by Clinique generated incremental sales of approximately $123 million, combined. Perfectionist [CP+] by Este Lauder and products in Cliniques 3 Step Skin Care System, bolstered by the introduction of Liquid Facial Soap, contributed approximately $78 million to the increase. These improvements were offset by approximately $157 million of decreases in sales of existing products in certain of our core brands as well as declines in our BeautyBank brands, which completed their initial rollout during fiscal 2005. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net sales increased 3%. Makeup Makeup net sales increased 6%, or $137.4 million, to $2,504.2 million reflecting growth from our makeup artist brands of approximately $179 million. This growth was partially offset by approximately $72 million of lower sales from certain existing products, reflecting challenges experienced by certain of our core brands, and declines in our BeautyBank brands, which completed their initial rollout during fiscal 2005. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, makeup net sales increased 7%. 29 Fragrance Net sales of fragrance products decreased 4%, or $47.3 million, to $1,213.3 million as we continued to be challenged in this product category, particularly in the Americas region. Este Lauder Beyond Paradise and various fragrances from Clinique and Tommy Hilfiger generated approximately $106 million of lower sales. Also contributing to the decrease were lower sales of approximately $28 million of True Star by Tommy Hilfiger and Lauder Beyond Paradise Men by Este Lauder as we anniversaried the initial shipments of those products in fiscal 2005. These decreases were partially offset by the fiscal 2006 launches of True Star Men by Tommy Hilfiger and Unforgivable by Sean John, which collectively contributed approximately $49 million to the category, and higher sales of approximately $47 million of DKNY Be Delicious and Este Lauder pleasures. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, fragrance net sales decreased 2%. Hair Care Hair care net sales increased 16%, or $44.8 million, to $318.7 million, primarily due to sales growth from Bumble and bumble and Aveda products. Bumble and bumble sales benefited from sales growth due to new points of distribution, increases in sales of core products and the launches of Shine and Powder products. Aveda net sales increases benefited from the fiscal 2006 launch of Damage Remedy hair care products, strong demand for color products and from the acquisition of a distributor. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, hair care net sales increased 17%. Geographic Regions Net sales in the Americas increased 3%, or $95.3 million, to $3,446.4 million. The increase was led by growth in the United States of approximately $190 million from our makeup artist and hair care brands, our internet distribution, and the introduction of the Unforgivable fragrance by Sean John. Partially offsetting this growth was approximately $122 million related to weaknesses in certain of our core brands as a result of challenges from competitive pressures and business disruptions at certain key retailers, and lower sales from our BeautyBank brands, which completed their initial rollout during fiscal 2005. Net sales growth in Canada, Latin America and Mexico contributed an additional $48 million to the increase. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, net sales increased 2%, or $38.6 million, to $2,147.7 million, reflecting higher net sales of approximately $64 million from our travel retail and distributor businesses, Russia and the United Kingdom, with all benefiting from the success of the DKNY Be Delicious franchise and the sale of MAC products. These increases were partially offset by decreases of approximately $26 million in Spain and Italy. Spains net sales were adversely affected by changes to our distribution policy and a difficult retail environment. Net sales in Italy were negatively impacted by changes to our distribution policy and, to a lesser extent, the balancing of inventory levels at its retailers. On a local currency basis, net sales in Europe, the Middle East & Africa increased 5%. Net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 6%, or $49.9 million, to $869.7 million. Strategic growth in China combined with positive results in Korea and Hong Kong, contributed approximately $57 million to sales growth in this region. These increases were partially offset by decreases in Japan and Australia of approximately $18 million. Japans results were negatively impacted due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen. The decrease in Australia reflected slower sell through in a difficult retail environment, particularly in the fragrance category, as well as the balancing of inventory levels at a major retailer. On a local currency basis, net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 7%. We strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in regional sales growth. Cost of Sales Cost of sales as a percentage of total net sales increased to 26.1% as compared with 25.5% in fiscal 2005. This change reflected an increase in obsolescence charges of approximately 40 basis points, the net change in the mix of our business within our geographic regions and product categories of approximately 20 basis points, a charge related to unutilized tooling of approximately 10 basis points and 20 basis points related to commodity material prices. Partially offsetting these increases were favorable changes in promotional activities of approximately 30 basis points. The higher price of oil resulted in price increases in certain oil based chemicals, which had a slight adverse effect on our cost of sales margin. Since certain promotional activities are a component of net sales or cost of sales and the timing and level of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have experienced fluctuations in the cost of sales percentage. 30 Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased to 64.3% of net sales as compared with 62.9% of net sales in fiscal 2005. The fiscal 2006 operating expense margin was negatively impacted by charges related to the implementation of our cost savings initiative of approximately $92.1 million or approximately 140 basis points, costs related to stock based compensation as a result of the fiscal 2006 adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) of approximately 60 basis points, and the estimated impact of both the merger of Federated Department Stores, Inc. and The May Department Stores Company and the hurricanes that affected the southern United States of approximately 40 basis points. Partially offsetting these incremental costs were operating expense margin improvements of approximately 90 basis points primarily resulting from net sales growth in brands and channels with lower advertising, merchandising and sampling cost structures as well as an overall reduction in this type of spending. Overall operating expenses reflected savings achieved during fiscal 2006 from our cost savings initiative. Changes in advertising, sampling and merchandising spending result from the type, timing and level of activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets being emphasized. During fiscal 2006, we recorded special charges associated with a cost savings initiative that was designed to support our long term financial objectives. As part of this multi faceted initiative, we identified savings opportunities that include streamlined processes and organizational changes. The principal component of the initiative was a voluntary separation program offered primarily to North America based employees. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, involuntary separations were communicated to certain employees. Under this initiative, we incurred expenses related to one time termination benefits for 494 employees, of which 28 were involuntary, which benefits were based principally upon years of service.In addition, we identified other cost savings opportunities to impr ove efficiencies in our distribution network and product offerings and to eliminate other nonessential costs. These charges primarily related to employee severance for facilities that are closing, contract cancellations, counter and door closings and product returns.For the year ended June 30, 2006, aggregate expenses of $92.1 million were recorded as special charges related to the cost savings initiative in the accompanying consolidated statement of earnings.The following table summarizes the costs and expected savings associated with our cost savings initiative, which impacted, and will continue to impact, our operating expenses and cost of sales: Fiscal 2006 expense Fiscal 2006 payments Accrued at June 30, 2006 Fiscal 2006 savings (In millions) Employee separation expenses $ 75.9 $ 20.7 $ 55.2 $ 17.5 Facility closures and product/distribution rationalization 12.5 12.5 11.7 Advertising and promotional effectiveness 3.7 2.5 1.2 9.8 $ 92.1 $ 23.2 $ 68.9 $ 39.0 Operating Results Operating income decreased 15%, or $107.2 million, to $619.6 million. Operating margin was 9.6% of net sales in fiscal 2006 as compared with 11.6% in fiscal 2005. These results were negatively impacted by the effects of special charges related to our cost savings initiative of $92.1 million, or 1.4% of net sales. In addition to the special charges, net sales growth was more than offset by the increases in our cost of sales and operating expense margins as previously discussed. The following discussions of Operating Results by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of special charges related to the implementation of our cost savings initiative. We believe the following analysis of operating results better reflects the manner in which we conduct and view our business. 31 Product Categories Operating income declined 79%, or $28.1 million, to $7.7 million in the fragrance product category reflecting lower sales and, to a lesser extent, expenses incurred related to development of new products and brands, partially offset by a shift in spending in certain of our core brands to other product categories. Skin care operating income decreased 5%, or $19.4 million, to $346.4 million primarily reflecting lower than anticipated net sales in certain of our core brands. Operating income increased 9%, or $28.3 million, to $329.4 million in the makeup product category primarily reflecting sales growth from our makeup artist brands, partially offset by declines in certain of our core brands. Hair care operating income increased 16%, or $3.7 million, to $26.5 million reflecting worldwide sales growth. In fiscal 2006, the merger of Federated Department Stores, Inc. and The May Department Stores Company had a negative impact on the operating results of our skin care, makeup and fragrance product categories, while incremental operating expenses associated with new accounting rules for stock based compensation negatively impacted all of our product categories. Geographic Regions Operating income in the Americas decreased 6%, or $22.1 million, to $344.1 million, primarily reflecting challenges experienced by certain of our core brands, due in part to competitive pressures and retailer consolidations, and incremental operating expenses of approximately $33 million associated with new accounting rules for stock based compensation. The ongoing success of our makeup artist and hair care brands and our internet distribution partially offset these challenges. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income decreased 3%, or $7.8 million, to $297.5 million. This decrease was primarily due to lower results in Spain, Benelux (Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg) and Italy of approximately $20 million, collectively. These decreases were partially offset by improvements of approximately $12 million in France, our travel retail business and Central Europe (Hungary, Poland and Czech Republic). In Asia/Pacific, operating income increased 27%, or $14.8 million, to $70.1 million. This increase reflects improved results of approximately $16 million in Korea, Japan and China, partially offset by lower results in Taiwan and Thailand of approximately $4 million, collectively. As China is an emerging market for us, we have invested, and plan to continue to invest, in new brand expansion and business opportunities there. Interest Expense, Net Net interest expense was $23.8 million as compared with $13.9 million in fiscal 2005. The increase in net interest expense was primarily due to higher average interest rates and, to a lesser extent, higher average debt balances due to outstanding commercial paper during the year. The increased expense was partially offset by increased interest income related to higher investment interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The effective rate for income taxes for fiscal 2006 was 43.6% as compared with 41.2% in fiscal 2005. The effective rate differs from statutory rates due to the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. The Companys effective tax rate will change from year to year based on non recurring and recurring factors including, but not limited to, the geographic mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation, state and local taxes, tax audit findings and settlements and the interaction of various global tax strategies. On July 13, 2006, we announced a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regarding its examination of our consolidated Federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1998 through June 30, 2001. The settlement resolves previously disclosed issues raised during the IRSs examination, including transfer pricing and foreign tax credit computations. The settlement of these issues resulted in a tax charge of approximately $46 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and represents the aggregate earnings impact of the settlement through fiscal 2006. In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we completed the repatriation of foreign earnings through intercompany dividends as required under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the AJCA). In connection with the repatriation, we updated the computation of the related aggregate tax impact, resulting in a favorable adjustment of approximately $11 million. The tax settlement, coupled with the AJCA favorable tax adjustment, resulted in a net increase to our fiscal 2006 income tax provision of approximately $35 million. The increase in the effective income tax rate was attributable to the tax settlement charge of approximately 770 basis points, an increase of approximately 60 basis points resulting from our foreign operations and an increase in nondeductible expenses of approximately 30 basis points. These increases were partially offset by the net reduction in the incremental tax charge relative to the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the AJCA of approximately 570 basis points, as well as a reduction of approximately 50 basis points for miscellaneous items. 32 Discontinued Operations On April 10, 2006 (the Effective Date), we completed the sale of certain assets and operations of the reporting unit that marketed and sold Stila brand products to Stila Corp. (the Purchaser), an affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, Inc., for consideration of $23.0 million. The sale price included cash of $9.3 million, a promissory note with a notional value of $13.3 million and a fair value of $11.0 million and convertible preferred stock with an aggregate liquidation preference of $5.0 million and a fair value of $2.7 million. As additional consideration for the purchased assets, and subject to the terms and conditions of the sale agreement, the Purchaser will pay us an amount equal to two percent of the annual net sales of the acquired business during the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending August 20, 2019. We will use these proceeds to satisfy our commitment under the 1999 agreement pursuant to which we originally purchased the Stila business. The Purchaser immediately assumed responsibility for all decisions regarding the operations of the Stila business and we agreed to divest ourselves of continuing involvement in the Stila business, except as described below. In fiscal 2006, we recorded charges of $80.3 million (net of $43.3 million tax benefit) to discontinued operations, which reflected the loss on the disposition of the business of $69.9 million, net of tax, and adjustments to the fair value of assets sold, the costs to dispose of those assets not acquired by the Purchaser and other costs in connection with the sale. The charges also included the operating losses of $10.4 million, net of tax, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Net sales associated with the discontinued operations were $45.1 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. All statements of earnings information for previous years has been restated for comparative purposes, including the restatement of the makeup product category and each of the geographic regions presented in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Segment Data and Related Information. In order to facilitate the transition of the Stila business to the Purchaser, we agreed to provide certain information systems, accounting and other back office services to the Purchaser in exchange for monthly service fees designed to recover the estimated costs of providing these transition services. We also agreed with the Purchaser to provide certain distribution and online services. In both cases, the services concluded in fiscal 2007. In addition, we agreed to manufacture and sell to the Purchaser a limited range of products for a period of up to four months following the Effective Date and, in the case of one product, of up to two years. Net Earnings Net earnings as compared with fiscal 2005 declined $161.9 million or 40% to $244.2 million and diluted net earnings per common share decreased 37% from $1.78 to $1.12. Net earnings from continuing operations as compared with fiscal 2005 decreased by $85.4 million, or 21%, to $324.5 million and diluted net earnings per common share from continuing operations decreased 17% from $1.80 to $1.49. 33 FINANCIAL CONDITION LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our principal sources of funds historically have been cash flows from operations and borrowings under commercial paper, borrowings from the issuance of long term debt and committed and uncommitted credit lines provided by banks and other lenders in the United States and abroad. At June 30, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $253.7 million compared with $368.6 million at June 30, 2006. At June 30, 2007, our outstanding borrowings were as follows: Long term Debt Short term Debt Total Debt (In millions) 6.00% Senior Notes, due May 15, 2037 (2037 Senior Notes) (1) $ 296.2 $ $ 296.2 5.55% Senior Notes, due May 15, 2017 (2017 Senior Notes) (2) 290.9 290.9 6.00% Senior Notes, due January 15, 2012 (2012 Senior Notes) (3) 239.7 239.7 5.75% Senior Notes, due October 15, 2033 (2033 Senior Notes) (4) 197.4 197.4 Commercial paper maturing through July 2007 (5.40% average interest rate) 26.5 26.5 12.3 million Turkish lira overdraft borrowing facility 9.4 9.4 Other borrowings 3.9 24.5 28.4 $ 1,028.1 $ 60.4 $ 1,088.5 (1) Consists of $300.0 million principal and unamortized debt discount of $3.8 million. (2) Consists of $300.0 million principal, unamortized debt discount of $0.5 million and an $8.6 million adjustment to reflect the fair value of outstanding interest rate swaps. (3) Consists of $250.0 million principal, unamortized debt discount of $0.5 million and a $9.8 million adjustment to reflect the remaining termination value of an interest rate swap that is being amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt. (4) Consists of $200.0 million principal and unamortized debt discount of $2.6 million. We have a $750.0 million commercial paper program under which we may issue commercial paper in the United States. Our commercial paper is currently rated A 1 by Standard & Poors and P 1 by Moodys. Our long term credit ratings are A with a stable outlook by Standard & Poors and A2 with a stable outlook by Moodys. At June 30, 2007, we had $26.5 million of commercial paper outstanding, which we may refinance on a periodic basis as it matures at then prevailing market interest rates. We also have $178.9 million in additional uncommitted credit facilities, of which $28.9 million was used as of June 30, 2007. Effective April 2007, we entered into a $750.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility, expiring on April 26, 2012, primarily to provide credit support for our commercial paper program, to repurchase shares of our common stock and for general corporate purposes. The new facility replaced our prior, undrawn $600.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which had been effective since May 27, 2005. Up to the equivalent of $250 million of the current facility is available for multi currency loans. The interest rate on borrowings under the credit facility is based on LIBOR or on the higher of prime, which is the rate of interest publicly announced by the administrative agent, or % plus the Federal funds rate. We incurred costs of approximately $0.3 million to establish the facility which will be amortized over the term of the facility. The credit facility has an annual fee of $0.4 million, payable quarterly, based on our current credit ratings. As of June 30, 2007, we were in compliance with all related financial and other restrictive covenants, including limitations on indebtedness and liens. In May 2007, we issued and sold the 2017 Senior Notes and the 2037 Senior Notes in a public offering. The 2017 Senior Notes were priced at 99.845% with a yield of 5.570% and the 2037 Senior Notes were priced at 98.722% with a yield of 6.093%. Interest payments on both notes are required to be made semi annually on May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2007. We used the net proceeds of this offering to repay long term commercial paper, which was used to fund our accelerated stock repurchase program, and to pay transaction fees and expenses related to this offering. We have a fixed rate promissory note agreement with a financial institution pursuant to which we may borrow up to $150.0 million in the form of loan participation notes through one of our subsidiaries in Europe. The interest rate on borrowings under this agreement is at an all in fixed rate determined by the lender and agreed to by us at the date of each borrowing. At June 30, 2007, no borrowings were outstanding under this agreement. Debt issuance costs incurred related to this agreement were de minimis. 34 We have an overdraft borrowing agreement with a financial institution pursuant to which our subsidiary in Turkey may be credited to satisfy outstanding negative daily balances arising from its business operations. The total balance outstanding at any time shall not exceed 20.0 million Turkish lira. The interest rate applicable to each such credit shall be 40 basis points per annum above the spot rate charged by the lender or the lenders floating call rate agreed to by us at each borrowing. There were no debt issuance costs incurred related to this agreement. The outstanding balance at June 30, 2007 ($9.4 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2007) is classified as short term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. We have a 3.0 billion yen revolving credit facility that expires on March 24, 2009. The interest rate on borrowings under the credit facility is based on TIBOR (Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate) and a 10 basis point facility fee is incurred on the undrawn balance. At June 30, 2007, no borrowings were outstanding under this facility. Our business is seasonal in nature and, accordingly, our working capital needs vary. From time to time, we may enter into investing and financing transactions that require additional funding. To the extent that these needs exceed cash from operations, we could, subject to market conditions, issue commercial paper, issue long term debt securities or borrow under our revolving credit facilities. Total debt as a percent of total capitalization was 48% at June 30, 2007 and 24% at June 30, 2006. The effects of inflation have not been significant to our overall operating results in recent years. Generally, we have been able to introduce new products at higher selling prices or increase selling prices sufficiently to offset cost increases, which have been moderate. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that cash on hand, cash generated from operations, available credit lines and access to credit markets will be adequate to support currently planned business operations, information systems enhancements, capital expenditures, stock repurchases, commitments and other contractual obligations on both a near term and long term basis. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $661.6 million, $709.8 million and $478.1 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The net decrease in operating cash flows from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007 reflected higher domestic and international inventory levels primarily driven by growth in new and emerging international markets, increased regulatory requirements and the building of safety stock for the recent implementation of SAP as part of our Strategic Modernization Initiative at our Aveda manufacturing facility. In addition, the decrease in operating cash flows reflected higher accounts receivable balances, primarily related to significant sales growth from our international operations. Cash flows were also impacted by cash payments made during fiscal 2007 related to our fiscal 2006 cost savings initiative. Partially offsetting the decrease was an improvement in net earnings from continuing operations. The net increase in operating cash flows for fiscal 2006 as compared with fiscal 2005 primarily reflected favorable changes in certain working capital accounts, partially offset by a decrease in net earnings from continuing operations. Net accounts receivable balances decreased primarily reflecting higher collections domestically during fiscal 2006. Inventory levels remained constant at June 30, 2006 as compared to June 30, 2005 due to our efforts to better manage our inventory. Increases in other accrued liabilities primarily reflected higher advertising, merchandising and sampling accruals compared to fiscal 2005, as well as significant deferred compensation and supplemental pension payments made to retired executives in fiscal 2005. Additional increases in other accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities reflected accrued employee separation benefits related to the Companys fiscal 2006 cost savings initiative. Net cash used for investing activities was $373.8 million, $303.2 million and $237.0 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. The increase in cash flows used for investing activities as compared with fiscal 2006 primarily reflected capital expenditures, which reflected our continuing company wide initiative to upgrade our information systems, store improvements and counter construction. Fiscal 2007 investing activities also reflected the purchase of the remaining equity interest in Bumble and Bumble Products, LLC and Bumble and Bumble, LLC, as well as the acquisition of businesses engaged in the wholesale distribution and retail sale of our products in the United States and other countries. The increase in cash flows used for investing activities during fiscal 2006 primarily reflected the cash payment related to the Jo Malone Limited earn out provision and, to a lesser extent, Aveda distributor acquisitions. Capital expenditures also increased in fiscal 2006 primarily reflecting our continued company wide initiative to upgrade our information systems, which was initiated in fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 capital expenditures reflected those costs related to our information systems as well as the investment in leasehold improvements for our corporate offices. 35 Cash used for financing activities was $411.6 million, $594.6 million and $300.4 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net cash flows related to short term and long term borrowings increased approximately $722.1 million from the prior year. An increase in proceeds from employee stock transactions of approximately $87 million also contributed to the improvement. Partially offsetting these improvements were increases in treasury stock repurchases of approximately $604 million and an increase of approximately $18 million in dividends paid to stockholders. During fiscal 2006, in addition to common stock repurchases and dividend payments, cash flows used for financing activities reflected the repayment of short term commercial paper that was outstanding at June 30, 2005 and the October 2005 redemption of the remaining 2015 Preferred Stock. These outflows were partially offset by short term borrowings under our loan participation note program. The 3.0 billion yen term loan outstanding at the end of fiscal 2005 was refinanced by borrowings under the new 3.0 billion yen revolving credit facility that we entered into in March 2006. The net cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2005 primarily reflected common stock repurchases and dividend payments, partially offset by the issuance of short term commercial paper to fund working capital needs and the receipt of proceeds from employee stock option transactions. Dividends On October 25, 2006, the Board of Directors declared an annual dividend of $.50 per share on our Class A and Class B Common Stock, of which an aggregate of $103.6 million was paid on December 27, 2006 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 8, 2006. The annual common stock dividend declared during fiscal 2006 was $.40 per share, of which an aggregate of $85.4 million was paid on December 28, 2005 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 9, 2005. Dividends on the 2015 Preferred Stock were $0.5 million for fiscal 2006 and were characterized as interest expense in the accompanying consolidated statement of earnings. 2015 Preferred Stock was redeemed in October 2005. Pension Plan Funding and Expense We maintain pension plans covering substantially all of our full time employees for our U.S. operations and a majority of our international operations. Several plans provide pension benefits based primarily on years of service and employees earnings. In the United States, we maintain a trust based, noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (U.S. Qualified Plan). Additionally, we have an unfunded, non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations. Our international pension plans are comprised of defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Several factors influence our annual funding requirements. For the U.S. Qualified Plan, our funding policy consists of annual contributions at a rate that provides for future plan benefits and maintains appropriate funded percentages. Such contribution is not less than the minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), and subsequent pension legislation, and is not more than the maximum amount deductible for income tax purposes. For each international plan, our funding policies are determined by local laws and regulations. In addition, amounts necessary to fund future obligations under these plans could vary depending on estimated assumptions (as detailed in Critical Accounting Polices and Estimates). The effect of our pension plan funding on future operating results will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, the number of participants electing to take lump sum distributions, investment performance and funding decisions. For fiscal 2007 and 2006, there was no minimum contribution to the U.S. Qualified Plan required by ERISA. During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 was adopted into law in the United States. Certain provisions of this law changed the calculation related to the maximum contribution amount deductible for income tax purposes. As a result of these provisions, we made discretionary contributions totaling $20.0 million to the U.S. Qualified Plan during fiscal 2007. We did not make any cash contributions pursuant to the plan during fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2008, we expect to make cash contributions totaling $20.0 million to the U.S. Qualified Plan. For fiscal 2007 and 2006, we made benefit payments under our non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan of $5.3 million and $7.4 million, respectively. We expect to make benefit payments under this plan during fiscal 2008 of $11.7 million. For fiscal 2007 and 2006, we made cash contributions to our international defined benefit pension plans of $24.0 million and $25.7 million, respectively. We expect to make contributions under these plans during fiscal 2008 of $21.0 million. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158). SFAS No. 158 requires employers to recognize a net liability or asset and an offsetting adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income to report the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Previous standards required employers to disclose the complete funded status of its plans only in the notes to the financial statements. Changes in the funded status of these plans will be recognized as they occur through other comprehensive income. Additional minimum liability adjustments are no longer recognized upon adoption of SFAS No. 158. As of June 30, 2007, we prospectively adopted the balance sheet recognition provisions of SFAS No. 158. Additionally, SFAS No. 158 requires employers to measure plan assets and obligations at their year end balance sheet date. Our principal pension and post retirement benefit plans are measured as of June 30; therefore, the measurement provisions of SFAS No. 158 did not affect our existing valuation practices. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 did not impact the consolidated statements of earnings or our financial debt covenant. As of June 30, 2007, we recognized other assets of $128.0 million, other accrued liabilities of $19.0 million and other noncurrent liabilities of $237.3 million on our consolidated balance sheet representing the funded status of our pension and post retirement plans. 36 Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 158, we recognized a liability on our balance sheet for each pension plan if the fair market value of the assets of that plan was less than the accumulated benefit obligation and, accordingly, a benefit or a charge was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity for the change in such liability. During fiscal 2006, we recorded a benefit, net of deferred tax, of $29.9 million. Commitments and Contingencies Certain of our business acquisition agreements include earn out provisions. These provisions generally require that we pay to the seller or sellers of the business additional amounts based on the performance of the acquired business. Since the size of each payment depends upon performance of the acquired business, we do not expect that such payments will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial condition. For additional contingencies, refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed and determinable as of June 30, 2007: Payments Due in Fiscal Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter (In millions) Debt service (1) $ 2,198.7 $ 122.4 $ 63.6 $ 62.6 $ 61.9 $ 304.4 $ 1,583.8 Operating lease commitments (2) 1,240.6 166.3 156.6 139.8 118.9 103.3 555.7 Unconditional purchase obligations (3) 1,553.0 1,046.1 132.5 99.9 63.9 36.9 173.7 Total contractual obligations $ 4,992.3 $ 1,334.8 $ 352.7 $ 302.3 $ 244.7 $ 444.6 $ 2,313.2 (1) Includes long term and short term debt and the related projected interest costs, and to a lesser extent, capital lease commitments. Refer to Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Refer to Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Unconditional purchase obligations primarily include inventory commitments, estimated future earn out payments, estimated royalty payments pursuant to license agreements, advertising commitments, capital improvement commitments, planned funding of pension and other post retirement benefit obligations, commitments pursuant to executive compensation arrangements and obligations related to our cost savings initiative. Future earn out payments and future royalty and advertising commitments were estimated based on planned future sales for the term that was in effect at June 30, 2007, without consideration for potential renewal periods. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities We address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We primarily enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. We also enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage the effects of fluctuating interest rates. We categorize these instruments as entered into for purposes other than trading. For each derivative contract entered into where we look to obtain special hedge accounting treatment, we formally document the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the nature of the risk being hedged, how the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the hedged risk will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively, and a description of the method of measuring ineffectiveness. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair value, cash flow, or foreign currency hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. We also formally assess, both at the hedges inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective, then we will be required to discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that derivative prospectively. 37 Foreign Exchange Risk Management We enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge anticipated transactions, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies, for periods consistent with our identified exposures. The purpose of the hedging activities is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on our costs and on the cash flows that we receive from foreign subsidiaries. Almost all foreign currency contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries and are with large financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a major rating agency. We also may enter into foreign currency options to hedge anticipated transactions where there is a high probability that anticipated exposures will materialize. The forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options entered into to hedge anticipated transactions have been designated as cash flow hedges. Hedge effectiveness of forward exchange contracts is based on a hypothetical derivative methodology and excludes the portion of fair value attributable to the spot forward difference which is recorded in current period earnings. Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency option contracts is based on a dollar offset methodology. The ineffective portion of both forward exchange and foreign currency option contracts is recorded in current period earnings. For hedge contracts that are no longer deemed highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued and gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to earnings when the underlying forecasted transaction occurs. If it is probable that the forecasted transaction will no longer occur, then any gains or losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to current period earnings. As of June 30, 2007, these cash flow hedges were highly effective, in all material respects. As a matter of policy, we only enter into contracts with counterparties that have at least an A (or equivalent) credit rating. The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions. We do not have significant exposure to any one counterparty. Our exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by any of the counterparties is limited to only the recognized, but not realized, gains attributable to the contracts. Management believes risk of default under these hedging contracts is remote and in any event would not be material to the consolidated financial results. The contracts have varying maturities through the end of June 2008. Costs associated with entering into such contracts have not been material to our consolidated financial results. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. At June 30, 2007, we had foreign currency contracts in the form of forward exchange contracts in the amount of $862.0 million. The foreign currencies included in forward exchange contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the British pound ($148.1 million), Canadian dollar ($140.3 million), Euro ($124.1 million), Swiss franc ($113.1 million), Australian dollar ($79.3 million), Japanese yen ($42.6 million) and South Korean won ($33.6 million). As of June 30, 2007, all of our previously outstanding option contracts have matured. Interest Rate Risk Management We enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage the exposure to fluctuations of interest rates on our funded and unfunded indebtedness for periods consistent with the identified exposures. All interest rate derivative contracts are with large financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a major rating agency. In April 2007, we terminated an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $250.0 million to effectively convert fixed rate interest on the 2012 Senior Notes to variable interest rates based on six month LIBOR. This instrument, which was designated as a fair value hedge and classified as a liability, had a termination fair value of $11.1 million at cash settlement, which included $0.9 million of accrued interest payable to the counterparty. Hedge accounting treatment was discontinued prospectively and the offsetting adjustment to the carrying amount of the related debt will be amortized to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt. In April 2007, in connection with the anticipated issuance of debt, we entered into a series of forward starting interest rate swap agreements on a notional amount totaling $210.0 million at a weighted average all in rate of 5.45%. These forward starting swap agreements, designated as cash flow hedges, were used to hedge the exposure to a possible rise in interest rates prior to the May 2007 issuance of debt. The agreements were settled upon the issuance of the 2037 Senior Notes and we recognized a loss in other comprehensive income of $0.9 million that will be amortized to interest expense over the 30 year life of the 2037 Senior Notes. In April 2007, we entered into interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount totaling $250.0 million to effectively convert the fixed rate interest on our 2017 Senior Notes to variable interest rates based on six month LIBOR. The interest rate swaps were designated as fair value hedges. As of June 30, 2007, these fair value hedges were highly effective, in all material respects. Market Risk We use a value at risk model to assess the market risk of our derivative financial instruments. Value at risk represents the potential losses for an instrument or portfolio from adverse changes in market factors for a specified time period and confidence level. We estimate value at risk across all of our derivative financial instruments using a model with historical volatilities and correlations calculated over the past 250 day period. The measured value at risk, calculated as an average, for the twelve months ended June 30, 2007 related to our foreign exchange contracts and our interest rate contracts was $10.2 million and $7.5 million, respectively. The model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95 percent confidence level. We used a statistical simulation model that valued our derivative financial instruments against one thousand randomly generated market price paths. 38 Our calculated value at risk exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on our portfolio of derivative financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may or may not occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures, and the timing thereof, and changes in our portfolio of derivative financial instruments during the year. We believe, however, that any such loss incurred would be offset by the effects of market rate movements on the respective underlying transactions for which the derivative financial instrument was intended. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not maintain any off balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect upon our financial condition or results of operations. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation Number (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 prescribes a two step evaluation process for tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, in a tax return. The first step is recognition and the second is measurement. For recognition, an enterprise judgmentally determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. If the tax position meets the more likely than not recognition threshold it is measured and recognized in the financial statements as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. Tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold at the effective date of FIN 48 may be recognized or, continue to be recognized, upon adoption of FIN 48. The cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN 48 shall be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for that fiscal year. FIN 48 will apply to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with earlier adoption permitted. In May 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FIN 48 1, Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48, an amendment of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FSP No. FIN 48 1). FSP No. FIN 48 1 provides guidance on how to determine whether a tax position is effectively settled for the purpose of recognizing previously unrecognized tax benefits. The provisions of FIN 48 became effective for us on July 1, 2007. While we are continuing to evaluate the impact of the interpretation on the consolidated financial statements, we expect the cumulative effect of adoption to reduce opening retained earnings by approximately $10 million to $20 million with a corresponding increase to reserves for uncertain tax positions. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157) to clarify the definition of fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and expand the disclosures on fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). SFAS No. 157 also stipulates that, as a market based measurement, fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, and establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between (a) market participant assumptions developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs) and (b) the reporting entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions developed based on the best information available in the circumstances (unobservable inputs). SFAS No. 157 becomes effective for us in our fiscal year ending June 30, 2009. We are currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of SFAS No. 157 on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, (SFAS No. 159) to permit all entities to choose to elect, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value. An entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront costs and fees related to those items in earnings as incurred and not deferred. SFAS No. 159 applies to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, with early adoption permitted for an entity that has also elected to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 157. An entity is prohibited from retrospectively applying SFAS No. 159, unless it chooses early adoption. We are currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of SFAS No. 159 on our consolidated financial statements, if any, when it becomes effective for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009. 39 FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION We and our representatives from time to time make written or oral forward looking statements, including statements contained in this and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in our reports to stockholders. The words and phrases will likely result, expect, believe, planned, may, should, could, anticipate, estimate, project, intend, forecast or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, without limitation, our expectations regarding sales, earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, product introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information systems initiatives, new methods of sale and future operations or operating results. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations, actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, without limitation: (1) increased competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than we do; (2) our ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating results may depend and to successfully address challenges in our core brands, including gift with purchase, and in our fragrance business; (3) consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing a decrease in the number of stores that sell our products, an increase in the ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by our competitors or ownership of competitors by our customers that are retailers; (4) destocking by retailers; (5) the success, or changes in timing or scope, of new product launches and the success, or changes in the timing or the scope, of advertising, sampling and merchandising programs; (6) shifts in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of products and services we sell; (7) social, political and economic risks to our foreign or domestic manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States; (8) changes in the laws, regulations and policies (including the interpretations and enforcement thereof) that affect, or will affect, our business, including those relating to our products, changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result; (9) foreign currency fluctuations affecting our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and our operating and manufacturing costs outside of the United States; (10) changes in global or local conditions, including those due to natural or man made disasters, real or perceived epidemics, or energy costs, that could affect consumer purchasing, the willingness or ability of consumers to travel and or purchase our products while traveling, the financial strength of our customers or suppliers, our operations, the cost and availability of capital which we may need for new equipment, facilities or acquisitions, the cost and availability of raw materials and the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates; (11) shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from disruptions of operations at any of the facilities that manufacture nearly all of our supply of a particular type of product (i.e., focus factories) or at our distribution or inventory centers, including disruptions that may be caused by the implementation of SAP as part of our Strategic Modernization Initiative; (12) real estate rates and availability, which may affect our ability to increase the number of retail locations at which we sell our products and the costs associated with our other facilities; (13) changes in product mix to products which are less profitable; (14) our ability to acquire, develop or implement new information and distribution technologies, on a timely basis and within our cost estimates; (15) our ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as publicly announced cost savings initiatives and the success of Stila under new ownership, and to integrate acquired businesses and realize value therefrom; (16) consequences attributable to the events that are currently taking place in the Middle East, including terrorist attacks, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation; 40 (17) the timing and impact of acquisitions and divestitures, which depend on willing sellers and buyers, respectively; and (18) additional factors as described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. We assume no responsibility to update forward looking statements made herein or otherwise. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
