Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition at June 30, 2008 and our results of operations for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in those financial statements. These judgments can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. Our most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, concentration of credit risk, inventory, pension and other post retirement benefit costs, goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes and derivatives. Management of the Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Revenues from merchandise sales are recognized upon transfer of ownership, including passage of title to the customer and transfer of the risk of loss related to those goods. In the Americas region, sales are generally recognized at the time the product is shipped to the customer and in the Europe, Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific regions sales are generally recognized based upon the customers receipt. In certain circumstances, transfer of title takes place at the point of sale, for example, at our retail stores. Sales at our retail stores and online are recognized in accordance with a traditional 4 4 5 retail calendar, where each fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4 week periods and one 5 week period, with one extra week in one quarter every seven years. As a result, the retail quarter end and the fiscal quarter end may be different by up to six days. Revenues are reported on a net sales basis, which is computed by deducting from gross sales the amount of actual product returns received, discounts, incentive arrangements with retailers and an amount established for anticipated product returns. Our practice is to accept product returns from retailers only if properly requested, authorized and approved. In accepting returns, we typically provide a credit to the retailer against accounts receivable from that retailer. As a percentage of gross sales, returns were 4.4%, 4.2% and 5.0% in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our sales return accrual is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net sales. This accrual is calculated based on a history of actual returns, estimated future returns and information provided by authorized retailers regarding their inventory levels. Consideration of these factors results in an accrual for anticipated sales returns that reflects increases or decreases related to seasonal fluctuations. Experience has shown a relationship between retailer inventory levels and sales returns in the subsequent period, as well as a consistent pattern of returns due to the seasonal nature of our business. In addition, as necessary, specific accruals may be established for significant future known or anticipated events. The types of known or anticipated events that we have considered, and will continue to consider, include, but are not limited to, the financial condition of our customers, store closings by retailers, changes in the retail environment and our decision to continue or support new and existing products. Concentration of Credit Risk An entity is vulnerable to concentration of credit risk if it is exposed to risks of loss greater than it would have if it mitigated its risks through diversification of customers. The significance of such credit risk depends on the extent and nature of the concentration. During fiscal 2006, Federated Department Stores, Inc. acquired The May Department Stores Company, resulting in the merger of our previous two largest customers (collectively Macys, Inc.). This customer sells products primarily within North America and accounted for $951.4 million, or 12%, $958.8 million, or 14%, and $1,005.8 million, or 16%, of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This customer accounted for $109.2 million, or 11%, and $105.3 million, or 12%, of our accounts receivable at June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Although management believes that this customer and our other major customers are sound and creditworthy, a severe adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our net sales, cash flows and or financial condition. In the ordinary course of business, we have established an allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions in the amount of $26.3 million and $23.3 million as of June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our allowance for doubtful accounts is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net earnings. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $10.2 million, $18.2 million and $12.0 million for customer deductions and write offs in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and increased by $13.2 million, $14.4 million and $10.2 million for additional provisions in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This reserve is based upon the evaluation of accounts receivable aging, specific exposures and historical trends. 20 Table of Contents Inventory We state our inventory at the lower of cost or fair market value, with cost being determined on the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe FIFO most closely matches the flow of our products from manufacture through sale. The reported net value of our inventory includes saleable products, promotional products, raw materials and componentry and work in process that will be sold or used in future periods. Inventory cost includes raw materials, direct labor and overhead. We also record an inventory obsolescence reserve, which represents the difference between the cost of the inventory and its estimated realizable value, based on various product sales projections. This reserve is calculated using an estimated obsolescence percentage applied to the inventory based on age, historical trends and requirements to support forecasted sales. In addition, and as necessary, we may establish specific reserves for future known or anticipated events. Pension and Other Post retirement Benefit Costs We offer the following benefits to some or all of our employees: a domestic trust based noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (U.S. Qualified Plan) and an unfunded, non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations (collectively with the U.S. Qualified Plan, the Domestic Plans); a domestic contributory defined contribution plan; international pension plans, which vary by country, consisting of both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans; deferred compensation arrangements; and certain other post retirement benefit plans. The amounts needed to fund future payouts under these plans are subject to numerous assumptions and variables. Certain significant variables require us to make assumptions that are within our control such as an anticipated discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and future compensation levels. We evaluate these assumptions with our actuarial advisors and we believe they are within accepted industry ranges, although an increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our control could have a direct impact on reported net earnings. The pre retirement discount rate for each plan used for determining future net periodic benefit cost is based on a review of highly rated long term bonds. For fiscal 2008, we used a pre retirement discount rate for our Domestic Plans of 6.25% and varying rates on our international plans of between 2.25% and 8.25%. The pre retirement rate for our Domestic Plans is based on a bond portfolio that includes only long term bonds with an Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency. We believe the timing and amount of cash flows related to the bonds included in this portfolio is expected to match the estimated defined benefit payment streams of our Domestic Plans. For fiscal 2008, we used an expected return on plan assets of 7.75% for our U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates of between 3.00% and 8.25% for our international plans. In determining the long term rate of return for a plan, we consider the historical rates of return, the nature of the plans investments and an expectation for the plans investment strategies. The U.S. Qualified Plan asset allocation as of June 30, 2008 was approximately 40% equity investments, 42% debt securities and 18% other investments. The asset allocation of our combined international plans as of June 30, 2008 was approximately 45% equity investments, 38% debt securities and 17% other investments. The difference between actual and expected return on plan assets is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Those gains/losses that are subject to amortization over future periods will be recognized as a component of the net periodic benefit cost in such future periods. For fiscal 2008, our pension plans had actual negative return on assets of $19.3 million as compared with expected return on assets of $47.0 million, which resulted in a net deferred loss of $66.3 million, of which approximately $34 million is subject to amortization over periods ranging from approximately 8 to 16 years. The actual negative return on assets was primarily related to the performance of equity markets during the past fiscal year. A 25 basis point change in the discount rate or the expected rate of return on plan assets would have had the following effect on fiscal 2008 pension expense: (In millions) 25 Basis Point Increase 25 Basis Point Decrease Discount rate $ (2.0 ) $ 2.5 Expected return on assets $ (1.7 ) $ 1.7 Our post retirement plans are comprised of health care plans that could be impacted by health care cost trend rates, which may have a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates for fiscal 2008 would have had the following effects: (In millions) One Percentage Point Increase One Percentage Point Decrease Effect on total service and interest costs $ 1.2 $ (1.1 ) Effect on post retirement benefit obligations $ 10.9 $ (9.8 ) 21 Table of Contents For fiscal 2009, we are using a pre retirement discount rate for the Domestic Plans of 6.75% and varying rates for our international plans of between 2.00% and 9.00%. We are using an expected return on plan assets of 7.75% for the U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates for our international pension plans of between 3.25% and 9.00%. The net change in these assumptions from those used in fiscal 2008 will result in a decrease in pension expense of approximately $3.6 million in fiscal 2009. We will continue to monitor the market conditions relative to these assumptions and adjust them accordingly. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the fair value of their underlying net assets. Other intangible assets principally consist of purchased royalty rights and trademarks. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite life are not amortized. On an annual basis, or more frequently if certain events or circumstances warrant, we test goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. To determine the fair value of these intangible assets, there are many assumptions and estimates used that directly impact the results of the testing. We have the ability to influence the outcome and ultimate results based on the assumptions and estimates we choose. To mitigate undue influence, we use industry accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by various levels of management and, in certain instances, we engage third party valuation specialists to advise us. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, as amended. This statement establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for the effects of income taxes that result from an enterprises activities during the current and preceding years. It requires an asset and liability approach for financial accounting and reporting of income taxes. As of June 30, 2008, we have current net deferred tax assets of $184.6 million and non current net deferred tax assets of $55.3 million. The net deferred tax assets assume sufficient future earnings for their realization, as well as the continued application of currently anticipated tax rates. Included in net deferred tax assets is a valuation allowance of $5.7 million for deferred tax assets, where management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the relevant jurisdiction. Based on our assessments, no additional valuation allowance is required. If we determine that a deferred tax asset will not be realizable, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will result in a reduction of earnings at that time. In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109. FIN 48 prescribes a two step evaluation process for tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, in a tax return. The first step is recognition and the second is measurement. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, disclosures, transition and accounting for interim periods. In May 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FIN 48 1, Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48, an amendment of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FSP No. FIN 48 1). FSP No. FIN 48 1 provides guidance on how to determine whether a tax position is effectively settled for the purpose of recognizing previously unrecognized tax benefits. We adopted the provisions of FIN 48, as amended, effective July 1, 2007. As a result, we recognized an increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and interest of $13.1 million (net of tax effect), which, as required, was accounted for as a reduction to the July 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. We elected to continue our historical practice of classifying applicable interest and penalties as a component of the provision for income taxes. We provide tax reserves for Federal, state, local and international exposures relating to periods subject to audit. The development of reserves for these exposures requires judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical estimate. We assess our tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting dates. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a tax authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. Where applicable, associated interest and penalties have also been recognized. Although the outcome relating to these exposures is uncertain, in managements opinion adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for estimable potential liabilities emanating from these exposures. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties which render them inestimable. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, including those that cannot be quantified, they could have a material impact on our results of operations, as we experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Results of Operations, Fiscal 2007 as Compared with Fiscal 2006 Provision for Income Taxes). 22 Table of Contents Derivatives We account for derivative financial instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. This statement also requires the recognition of all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and that they be measured at fair value. We currently use derivative financial instruments to hedge certain anticipated transactions and interest rates, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. We do not utilize derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Hedge effectiveness is documented, assessed and monitored by employees who are qualified to make such assessments and monitor the instruments. Variables that are external to us such as social, political and economic risks may have an impact on our hedging program and the results thereof. For a discussion on the quantitative impact of market risks related to our derivative financial instruments, refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk. Quantitative Analysis During the three year period ended June 30, 2008 there have not been material changes in the assumptions underlying these critical accounting policies, nor to the related significant estimates. With the exception of our tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, which finalized the ultimate liability for exposures which were previously inestimable, the results of our business underlying these assumptions have not differed significantly from our expectations. While we believe that the estimates that we have made are proper and the related results of operations for the period are presented fairly in all material respects, other assumptions could reasonably be justified that would change the amount of reported net sales, cost of sales, operating expenses or our provision for income taxes as they relate to the provisions for anticipated sales returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory obsolescence reserve and income taxes. For fiscal 2008, had these estimates been changed simultaneously by 2.5% in either direction, our reported gross profit would have increased or decreased by approximately $5.2 million, operating expenses would have changed by approximately $0.7 million and the provision for income taxes would have increased or decreased by approximately $1.7 million. The collective impact of these changes on operating income, net earnings and net earnings per diluted common share would be an increase or decrease of approximately $5.9 million, $7.6 million and $.04, respectively. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We manufacture, market and sell skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products which are distributed in over 140 countries and territories. We believe that the best way to increase stockholder value is to provide our customers and consumers with the products and services that they have come to expect from us in the most efficient and profitable manner. With this goal in mind, we have developed a long term strategy based on the following five imperatives: 1. Optimize brand portfolio 2. Strengthen product categories 3. Strengthen and expand geographic presence 4. Diversify and strengthen distribution channels 5. Achieve operational and cost excellence In fiscal 2008, we continued to find ways to strengthen our core brands and product categories, maximize high growth brands, and incubate and develop next generation brands. Net sales from Este Lauder and Clinique grew on a global basis, fueled by strong demand outside of the United States where these brands generated approximately two thirds of their net sales. We took measures to improve our business at the point of sale by investing in new modular display and tester units for the Este Lauder brand at all North American department store locations and increased our focus to improve the service provided by Este Lauder Beauty Advisors. Our Clinique brand sponsored a program to improve the consumer experience at U.S. and international department stores. Our faster growing MAC, Bobbi Brown, La Mer and Jo Malone brands continued to increase their net sales in all of our geographic regions. The recent launch of Sean John Unforgivable Woman generated significant incremental net sales to our fragrance product category. In July 2007, we acquired Ojon Corporation, a privately held hair care and skin care company based in Canada that sells its products primarily through direct response television (DRTV) and specialty stores. We also recently announced that we purchased a minority interest in a privately held company that manufactures, markets and sells beauty products in India under the Forest Essentials brand. This past year we continued to build on our strength in research and development. For example, we further improved the Este Lauder Re Nutriv product line with the introduction of Re Nutriv Ultimate Youth Crme. Clinique launched a dermatologist certified line called Redness Solutions to reduce the appearance of skin redness. Origins recently launched Origins Organics, the first full line of skin, body and hair care products to be certified under the USDA National Organic Program. 23 Table of Contents Again in fiscal 2008, the majority of our net sales came from outside the United States. We generated growth in sales and profits in our travel retail business, including accelerated growth from downtown locations in Asian cities, border stores in Latin America and shops on cruise ships. We continued to increase our presence in China and Russia and recently established affiliates in the Middle East and India. In an effort to improve the return on our media investment abroad, we consolidated the work of several media agencies into one by selecting M2M, a media company of Omnicom Media Group, to be our media agency in eight European and four Asian/Pacific countries. By doing so, we anticipate integrating traditional media and expanding the use of Internet and digital advertising in these areas. In alternative distribution channels, we continued to grow our online business in the United States, where we sell products from 15 of our brands on Company owned websites. With the recent expansion of our online business into Korea, we now sell products on our own e commerce sites in five foreign countries. In fiscal 2008, we also expanded our presence in the DRTV distribution channel, most significantly with the acquisition of Ojon in July 2007. In the United States, Clinique debuted on QVC, where Bobbi Brown, Origins and Ojon currently have regular shows. BeautyBank created Eyes by Design, a brand which is currently being sold exclusively on HSN. Internationally, Ojon debuted on QVC in Germany while Bobbi Brown and Prescriptives aired on QVC in the United Kingdom. Origins and Good SkinTM have also had shows on DRTV in Korea. As part of our international pharmacy channel business initiative, several distributor markets for Darphin products will now be serviced by our own affiliates and Origins opened more than 20 new pharmacies in France. Tri Aktiline by Good SkinTM launched in over 500 Sephora doors throughout Europe and exclusively in Cosmeds 250 pharmacies in Taiwan, our first entry in Taiwans pharmacy channel. In January 2008, we formed a strategic collaboration with Allergan, Inc., a global medical aesthetics company, to develop a Clinique branded skin care line, Clinique Medical, to be sold exclusively through physicians offices in the United States. We continued to make progress on our Strategic Modernization Initiative (SMI). During fiscal 2008, Demand Planning for select business units began using SAP software, a critical part of SMI. We anticipate SMI implementation will continue at additional primary locations in fiscal 2009, with the majority of our business to be implemented through fiscal 2012. Despite the rise in energy and raw material prices in the current year, we were able to maintain our overall cost of sales margin through other efficiencies achieved from our ongoing savings initiatives. We also opened a new distribution center in Singapore to improve service levels in the fast growing Asia/Pacific region. In December 2007, we entered into agreements to ensure that the equivalent of all electricity utilized by our Global Operations division is generated from green sources. We now rank 22nd on the EPAs list of leading Fortune 500 companies in alternative power usage. During fiscal 2008, we also faced challenges, many of which we expect to be ongoing in fiscal 2009. We believe that economic uncertainty in the United States has affected our business, particularly in the department store channel. We continue to see softness in the United States, including the impact of the consolidation and changes taking place among retailers. In addition, the fragrance category continues to be highly competitive. These challenges have been mitigated through sales in alternative channels, such as freestanding retail stores, internet distribution, self select distribution and DRTV. Efforts to expand geographically are complicated by increasing regulatory issues and cultural barriers. As we continue to implement our strategic imperatives, we expect to make selective investments, embark on new business endeavors, and pursue initiatives that we believe will have long term benefits. The timing, impact and magnitude of any particular actions, such as an acquisition to strengthen our product categories and or diversify our distribution channels, are subject to numerous factors and one time charges that cannot be predicted. 24 Table of Contents The following table is a comparative summary of operating results from continuing operations for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 and reflects the basis of presentation described in Note 2 and Note 21 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented. Products and services that do not meet our definition of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care have been included in the other category. Year Ended June 30 2008 2007 2006 (In millions) NET SALES By Region: The Americas $ 3,711.5 $ 3,560.9 $ 3,446.4 Europe, the Middle East & Africa 3,006.7 2,493.4 2,147.7 Asia/Pacific 1,192.6 983.2 869.7 $ 7,910.8 $ 7,037.5 $ 6,463.8 By Product Category: Skin Care $ 2,996.8 $ 2,601.0 $ 2,400.8 Makeup 3,000.4 2,712.7 2,504.2 Fragrance 1,432.0 1,308.6 1,213.3 Hair Care 427.1 377.1 318.7 Other 54.5 38.1 26.8 $ 7,910.8 $ 7,037.5 $ 6,463.8 OPERATING INCOME By Region: The Americas $ 228.3 $ 336.4 $ 344.1 Europe, the Middle East & Africa 433.1 321.4 297.5 Asia/Pacific 149.7 93.2 70.1 Special charges related to cost savings initiative * (0.4 ) (1.1 ) (92.1 ) $ 810.7 $ 749.9 $ 619.6 By Product Category: Skin Care $ 405.6 $ 341.5 $ 346.4 Makeup 359.4 339.3 329.4 Fragrance 36.2 28.1 7.7 Hair Care 11.5 42.5 26.5 Other (1.6 ) (0.4 ) 1.7 Special charges related to cost savings initiative * (0.4 ) (1.1 ) (92.1 ) $ 810.7 $ 749.9 $ 619.6 * Refer to the discussion in Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 25 Table of Contents The following table presents certain consolidated earnings data as a percentage of net sales: Year Ended June 30 2008 2007 2006 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 25.2 25.2 26.1 Gross profit 74.8 74.8 73.9 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 64.5 64.1 62.9 Special charges related to cost savings initiative 1.4 64.5 64.1 64.3 Operating income 10.3 10.7 9.6 Interest expense, net 0.9 0.6 0.4 Earnings before income taxes, minority interest and discontinued operations 9.4 10.1 9.2 Provision for income taxes 3.3 3.6 4.0 Minority interest, net of tax (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) Net earnings from continuing operations 6.0 6.4 5.0 Discontinued operations, net of tax (1.2 ) Net earnings 6.0 % 6.4 % 3.8 % In order to meet the demands of consumers, we continually introduce new products, support new and established products through advertising, sampling and merchandising and phase out existing products that no longer meet the needs of our consumers. The economics of developing, producing, launching and supporting products influence our sales and operating performance each period. The introduction of new products may have some cannibalizing effect on sales of existing products, which we take into account in our business planning. The recent challenges and uncertainties in the economies of certain key countries, including the United States, may continue to have an adverse impact on consumer demand, which could affect our net sales and operating results in the short and long term. Fiscal 2008 as Compared with Fiscal 2007 NET SALES Net sales increased 12%, or $873.3 million, to $7,910.8 million, reflecting net sales growth in all of our product categories within each geographic region. Skin care, makeup and fragrance net sales increases were led by Europe, the Middle East and Africa while most of the net sales increase in hair care was achieved in the Americas. The increase in net sales reflected our efforts to capitalize on growth opportunities internationally. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales increased 8%. Product Categories Skin Care Net sales of skin care products increased 15%, or $395.8 million, to $2,996.8 million. This growth reflected the recent launches of Idealist Pore Minimizing Skin Refinisher, Cyber White EX and Hydra Bright Skin Tone Perfecting Moisturizers from Este Lauder. Also contributing to the growth were the recent launches of products in the Acne Solutions Clear Skin System, Redness Solutions and Even Better Skin Tone Corrector from Clinique as well as The Eye Concentrate and The Moisturizing Gel Cream from La Mer. Collectively, these new products resulted in incremental sales of approximately $215 million. Net sales increases from Re Nutriv and Resilience Lift Extreme Ultra Firming products from Este Lauder, products in Cliniques 3 Step Skin Care System and Repairwear line, and Tri AktilineTM Instant Deep Wrinkle Filler from Good SkinTM totaled approximately $80 million. These improvements were partially offset by approximately $55 million of lower sales from certain other existing Idealist products and Perfectionist products from Este Lauder. Net sales of other new and existing products also significantly contributed to the growth. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net sales increased 10%. 26 Table of Contents Makeup Makeup net sales increased 11%, or $287.7 million, to $3,000.4 million reflecting growth from our makeup artist brands of approximately $194 million. Also contributing to the growth were incremental sales from the recent launches of Este Lauder Signature Hydra Lustre Lipstick, Double Wear Zero Smudge Mascara and Eyeliner from Este Lauder, Supermoisture Makeup and Superbalm Moisturizing Gloss from Clinique, as well as higher sales of Double Wear Stay In Place Makeup from Este Lauder of approximately $97 million, combined. Partially offsetting these increases were lower sales of approximately $30 million of Pure Color Eyeshadow and High Gloss from Este Lauder and Colour Surge Lipstick from Clinique. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, makeup net sales increased 7%. Fragrance Net sales of fragrance products increased 9%, or $123.4 million, to $1,432.0 million. The recent launches of Sean John Unforgivable Woman, Dreaming Tommy Hilfiger, Este Lauder Pure White Linen Light Breeze, Este Lauder pleasures delight and DKNY Delicious Night collectively contributed approximately $95 million to the growth in the category. Higher sales of approximately $62 million of DKNY Be Delicious, Jo Malone and Tom Ford fragrances also contributed to the increase. Lower sales of approximately $53 million of Tommy Girl by Tommy Hilfiger, DKNY Red Delicious Women and DKNY Be Delicious Men partially offset the growth in this product category. While current year sales levels compared favorably to the prior year, we anticipate continued challenges in this product category in the United States. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, fragrance net sales increased 5%. Hair Care Hair care net sales increased 13%, or $50.0 million, to $427.1 million, primarily due to the inclusion of the Ojon brand which was acquired at the end of July 2007, as well as growth from Aveda and Bumble and bumble. Aveda net sales increases benefited from the recent launches of Smooth Infusion and Aveda Men Pure Formance products, as well as the recent acquisition of an independent distributor. Bumble and bumble net sales benefited from new points of distribution and increases from its hotel amenities program, which concluded in the third quarter. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, hair care net sales increased 11%. Geographic Regions Net sales in the Americas increased 4%, or $150.6 million, to $3,711.5 million, primarily reflecting net sales growth in Canada and Latin America, as well as the addition of the Ojon brand, of approximately $98 million, combined. Additional net sales increases of approximately $65 million were attributable to our designer fragrances business and our makeup artist and hair care brands in the United States. Partially offsetting this growth was approximately $37 million related to weaknesses in certain of our core brands in the United States as a result of competitive pressures and challenges in the department store channel. We believe that economic uncertainty in the United States has affected our business, particularly in the department store channel. These challenges have been mitigated through sales in alternative channels, such as freestanding retail stores, internet distribution, self select distribution and direct response television. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales in the Americas increased 3%. All countries in Europe, the Middle East & Africa experienced net sales growth, which contributed to the increase in net sales of 21%, or $513.3 million, to $3,006.7 million, although net sales growth rates slowed in certain key countries. This growth was led by our travel retail business and the United Kingdom, as well as in Russia, which benefited from our expansion in this emerging market. The results in this region were inclusive of an exchange rate benefit due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar of approximately $206 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales in Europe, the Middle East & Africa increased 12%. Net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 21%, or $209.4 million, to $1,192.6 million, reflecting growth from all countries in the region. This increase reflected higher net sales of approximately $172 million in China, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia and Korea. The results in this region were inclusive of an exchange rate benefit due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar of approximately $66 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 15%. We strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in regional sales growth. COST OF SALES Cost of sales as a percentage of total net sales was 25.2%, which is the same as the prior year. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales reflected a decrease in the level and timing of promotional activities of approximately 20 basis points and a positive effect of exchange rates of approximately 10 basis points. Offsetting these improvements was an unfavorable change in the mix of our business, an increase in obsolescence charges, and employee related charges designed to streamline certain business activities and achieve future cost savings of approximately 10 basis points, each. 27 Table of Contents Despite the rise in energy and raw material prices in the current year, we were able to maintain our overall cost of goods margin through other efficiencies achieved from ongoing savings initiatives. While sustained energy and raw material price increases could result in higher costs, we believe that this will not have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales margin in the near future. Since certain promotional activities are a component of sales or cost of sales and the timing and level of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of sales percentage. In addition, future cost of sales mix may be impacted by the inclusion of new brands which have margin and product cost structures different from those of our existing brands. OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses increased to 64.5% of net sales as compared with 64.1% of net sales in the prior year. The increase in operating expenses and operating expense margin reflected higher costs of global information technology systems and infrastructure of approximately 30 basis points. An additional 20 basis points resulted from an increase in valuation reserves reflecting the diminishing likelihood of realizing value from a promissory note and convertible preferred stock received in connection with the divestiture of Stila in fiscal 2006. We also recorded an increase in intangible asset amortization resulting from recent strategic acquisitions, as well as employee related charges designed to streamline certain business activities and achieve future cost savings, of approximately 10 basis points each. Operating expense margin in the prior year was adversely impacted by charges related to our pharmacy channel of approximately 40 basis points. Changes in advertising, merchandising and sampling spending result from the type, timing and level of activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets being emphasized. OPERATING RESULTS Operating income increased 8%, or $60.8 million, to $810.7 million as compared with the prior year. Operating margin declined to 10.3% of net sales as compared with 10.7% in the prior year, reflecting our constant cost of sales margin and the increase in our operating expense margin, as previously discussed. Product Categories Fragrance operating income increased 29%, or $8.1 million, to $36.2 million, reflecting profitable international growth, partially offset by increased spending in support of designer fragrance products initiatives. Skin care operating income increased 19%, or $64.1 million, to $405.6 million, primarily reflecting improved international results from certain of our core brands and net sales growth from La Mer products and Tri AktilineTM Instant Deep Wrinkle Filler from Good SkinTM. In addition, the prior year results in this category reflected organizational costs of approximately $30 million, primarily related to our pharmacy channel in Europe. Makeup operating income increased 6%, or $20.1 million, to $359.4 million, primarily reflecting improved results internationally. These improvements were partially offset by lower results in the United States from certain of our core brands, the charge on the impairment of Stila related financial instruments, and costs related to the establishment of new points of distribution for MAC. Hair care operating income declined 73%, or $31.0 million, to $11.5 million, primarily reflecting costs related to the acquisition and integration of Ojon to position the brand for future growth. The results in this category also reflected an increase in intangible asset amortization resulting from recent strategic acquisitions as well as costs related to the establishment of new points of distribution. Geographic Regions Operating income in the Americas declined 32%, or $108.1 million, to $228.3 million, primarily reflecting a difficult retail environment in which our core brands faced challenges in the department store channel. We also experienced significant pressure on the profitability of our hair care business as discussed above. At the same time, we continued to invest in our global information technology systems and infrastructure. In addition, we established new points of distribution for existing brands, incurred costs to streamline certain business activities to generate future efficiencies and incurred a charge on the impairment of Stila related financial instruments, as discussed above. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income increased 35%, or $111.7 million, to $433.1 million primarily due to higher results of approximately $71 million in our travel retail business, the United Kingdom, Italy, the Balkans and Spain. Partially offsetting these increases were lower results in Russia and India of approximately $6 million, reflecting spending to support our expansion in these emerging markets. The overall operating results in this region were adversely impacted in the prior year by the pharmacy channel charges discussed above. In Asia/Pacific, operating income increased 61%, or $56.5 million, to $149.7 million. All of our affiliates in this region experienced an increase in operating income, primarily resulting from net sales growth led by Japan, Hong Kong, China, Australia and Korea, which contributed approximately $43 million, collectively. 28 Table of Contents INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Net interest expense was $66.8 million as compared with $38.9 million in the prior year. This change primarily resulted from higher average debt balances, including an additional $600.0 million of senior notes issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, partially offset by lower average interest rates. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The effective rate differs from statutory rates due to the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate will change from year to year based on non recurring and recurring factors including, but not limited to, the geographical mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation, state and local taxes, tax audit settlements and the interaction of various global tax strategies. The effective rate for income taxes for the year ended June 30, 2008 was 34.9% as compared with 35.9% in the prior year. The decrease in the effective income tax rate of 100 basis points resulted primarily from a decrease in state and local income tax expense (240 basis points) partially offset by an increase in the tax effect of our foreign operations (140 basis points). NET EARNINGS Net earnings as compared with fiscal 2007 increased 5%, or $24.6 million, to $473.8 million and diluted net earnings per common share improved 11% from $2.16 to $2.40. Fiscal 2007 as Compared with Fiscal 2006 NET SALES Net sales increased 9%, or $573.7 million, to $7,037.5 million, reflecting net sales growth in all product categories and geographic regions. The increases in our skin care, makeup and fragrance product categories were led by Europe, the Middle East & Africa while the increase in hair care net sales was predominantly in the Americas. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales increased 7%. Product Categories Skin Care Net sales of skin care products increased 8%, or $200.2 million, to $2,601.0 million. Most of this growth was fueled by new product launches which made their most significant impact in our Europe, the Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific regions. The fiscal 2007 launches of Advanced Night Repair Concentrate Recovery Boosting Treatment and Idealist Refinisher from Este Lauder, and Repairwear Lift Firming Night Cream, Continuous Rescue Antioxidant Moisturizer, All About Eyes Rich and Repairwear Contour Firming Formula from Clinique contributed incremental sales of approximately $95 million, combined. Net sales increases from our fast growing La Mer brand, Resilience Lift Extreme Ultra Firming products and other existing Advanced Night Repair products from Este Lauder, along with products in the Clinique 3 Step Skin Care System and Superdefense from Clinique, totaled approximately $97 million. These improvements were partially offset by approximately $35 million of lower sales from certain other Resilience Lift products and Perfectionist [CP+] from Este Lauder. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net sales increased 6%. Makeup Makeup net sales increased 8%, or $208.5 million, to $2,712.7 million, reflecting growth from our makeup artist brands of approximately $191 million. This increase was supported by new points of distribution and new product launches as well as MAC Viva Glam lip products, the proceeds of which are donated to AIDS related charities. Higher sales of Double Wear Foundation and the fiscal 2007 launch of Resilience Lift Extreme Ultra Firming Makeup SPF 15 by Este Lauder contributed approximately $56 million to the growth in this product category. Lower sales of approximately $35 million of Pure Color Gloss and Individualist Natural Finish Makeup by Este Lauder, and Repairwear Anti Aging Makeup SPF 15 by Clinique partially offset this growth. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, makeup net sales increased 6%. Fragrance Net sales of fragrance products increased 8%, or $95.3 million, to $1,308.6 million, primarily driven by incremental international sales from newer fragrance offerings. DKNY Red Delicious, Pure White Linen from Este Lauder, Sean John Unforgivable, DKNY Red Delicious Men and Donna Karan Gold collectively contributed approximately $128 million to the category. Lower sales of approximately $67 million of True Star and True Star Men by Tommy Hilfiger, and Este Lauder pleasures partially offset the growth in this product category. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, fragrance net sales increased 5%. 29 Table of Contents Hair Care Hair care net sales increased 18%, or $58.4 million, to $377.1 million, primarily due to sales growth from Aveda and Bumble and bumble products. Aveda net sales increases were primarily due to sales of professional color products, the fiscal 2007 launch of Be Curly shampoo and conditioner and the acquisition of an independent distributor. Bumble and bumble sales benefited from a new hotel amenities program, sales growth in its existing salon distribution and new points of distribution. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, hair care net sales increased 17%. Geographic Regions Net sales in the Americas increased 3%, or $114.5 million, to $3,560.9 million. The increase was led by growth in the United States of approximately $152 million from our makeup artist brands, our hair care business, our internet distribution and the fiscal 2007 launch of the Unforgivable fragrance by Sean John. Partially offsetting this growth was approximately $90 million related to weaknesses in our core brands as a result of competitive pressures and retailer consolidations. Net sales growth in Canada, Latin America and Mexico contributed an additional $31 million to the increase. The fiscal 2006 results reflected an incremental provision of approximately $16 million for returns that were anticipated at that time as a result of then announced store closings from retailer consolidations. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, net sales increased 16%, or $345.7 million, to $2,493.4 million, including an exchange rate benefit due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar of approximately $122 million. The growth in the region reflected higher net sales of approximately $260 million in the United Kingdom, our travel retail business, Russia, Germany and Spain, with all benefiting from an improving retail environment, and in Turkey, where we acquired a distributor. On a local currency basis, net sales in Europe, the Middle East & Africa increased 10%. Net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 13%, or $113.5 million, to $983.2 million. The growth in this region reflected higher net sales of approximately $86 million in Korea, China, Hong Kong and Australia. These markets benefited from an improved economy across the region while Chinas growth in net sales primarily reflected our continued strategic expansion in this country. We also experienced modest sales growth in Japan, our largest market in this region. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 11%. We strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in regional sales growth. COST OF SALES Cost of sales as a percentage of total net sales decreased to 25.2% as compared with 26.1% in fiscal 2006. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales reflected a favorable change in the mix of our business of approximately 40 basis points, a decrease in the level and timing of promotional activities of approximately 20 basis points, the effect of exchange rate translation of approximately 20 basis points and a decrease in obsolescence charges of approximately 10 basis points. Certain of these items reflect savings achieved during fiscal 2007 from our cost savings initiative, which commenced during fiscal 2006. Since certain promotional activities are a component of sales or cost of sales and the timing and level of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of sales percentage. In addition, future cost of sales mix may be impacted by the inclusion of new brands which have margin and product cost structures different from those of our existing brands. OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses improved to 64.1% of net sales as compared with 64.3% of net sales in fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2006, we recorded a $92.1 million charge to operating expenses related to the implementation of our cost savings initiative that negatively impacted our operating expense margin by approximately 140 basis points. Partially offsetting this improvement was an increase of approximately 50 basis points in selling, general and administrative expenses reflecting higher demonstration, field selling and training costs in support of our business. In fiscal 2007, our operating expense margin was negatively impacted by approximately 40 basis points resulting from expenses related to our pharmacy channel for organizational costs, costs to streamline the distribution of goods, and the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. An increase in costs incurred related to the implementation of SMI and higher stock based compensation expenses lowered our operating expense margin by approximately 20 additional basis points, combined. Overall operating expenses reflected savings achieved during fiscal 2007 from our cost savings initiative, which commenced during fiscal 2006. Changes in advertising, merchandising and sampling spending result from the type, timing and level of activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets being emphasized. 30 Table of Contents OPERATING RESULTS Due to the growth in net sales and the decreases in our cost of sales and operating expense margins as previously discussed, operating income increased 21%, or $130.3 million, to $749.9 million as compared with fiscal 2006. Operating margins were 10.7% of net sales as compared with 9.6% in fiscal 2006, which was negatively impacted by 1.4% of net sales as a result of the special charge related to our cost savings initiative. The following discussions of Operating Results by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of special charges related to our cost savings initiative of $1.1 million and $92.1 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We believe the following analysis of operating results better reflects the manner in which we conduct and view our business. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Product Categories Fragrance operating results increased over 100%, or $20.4 million, to $28.1 million, as profits from higher international net sales and lower spending at certain of our core brands in the United States more than offset spending behind new and developing brands. Hair care operating results grew 60%, or $16.0 million, to $42.5 million as the increase in net sales outpaced increased spending in support of new distribution points and product launches. Operating results increased 3%, or $9.9 million, to $339.3 million in makeup, primarily as a result of higher net sales and profits from our makeup artist brands, which more than offset challenges among certain core brands. Skin care operating results decreased 1%, or $4.9 million, to $341.5 million. The results in this product category were negatively impacted in fiscal 2007 by charges related to our pharmacy channel. We recorded approximately $30 million for organizational costs, costs to streamline the distribution of goods, and the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, improvements in international skin care results were partially offset by challenges in certain core brands in the United States. Geographic Regions Operating income in the Americas decreased 2%, or $7.7 million, to $336.4 million, reflecting spending behind strategic initiatives at our core brands, retailer consolidation and costs to develop new brands in the United States. Operating income growth from our makeup artist brands, hair care business and our internet distribution partially offset these results. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income increased 8%, or $23.9 million, to $321.4 million primarily due to higher results of approximately $49 million from our travel retail business, the United Kingdom, Russia and Germany. Lower results from France partially offset these improvements by approximately $10 million. The fiscal 2007 operating results in France reflected the rebalancing of inventory levels at certain retailers as well as strategic investment spending behind the field sales force. During fiscal 2007, the region was negatively impacted by the charges discussed above related to our pharmacy channel, partially offset by modest combined operating income growth from the remaining affiliates in this region. In Asia/Pacific, operating income increased 33%, or $23.1 million, to $93.2 million. This increase reflected improved results of approximately $23 million in Hong Kong, China, Australia and Korea. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Net interest expense was $38.9 million as compared with $23.8 million in fiscal 2006. This change primarily resulted from higher average debt balances, primarily associated with the funding of our accelerated share repurchase program, and higher average interest rates. Also contributing to the increase was reduced interest income generated from lower average investment balances internationally, partially offset by higher average investment rates. These increases were partially offset by the capitalization of interest expense on internally developed software in connection with the upgrade of our information systems. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The effective rate differs from statutory rates due to the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate will change from year to year based on non recurring and recurring factors including, but not limited to, the geographical mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation, state and local taxes, tax audit settlements and the interaction of various global tax strategies. The effective rate for income taxes for the year ended June 30, 2007 was 35.9% as compared with 43.6% in fiscal 2006. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily attributable to the fiscal 2006 effect of the IRS tax settlement of approximately 770 basis points. 31 Table of Contents DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS On September 30, 2005, we committed to a plan to sell and on April 10, 2006, we completed the sale of certain assets and operations of our reporting unit that marketed and sold Stila brand products. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, $0.5 million, net of tax, of operating income was reflected as discontinued operations, reflecting the conclusion of transitional distribution services provided to the purchaser. The fiscal 2006 charge of $80.3 million, net of tax, reflected the then anticipated loss on the sale of the business of $69.9 million, net of tax, and the operating loss of $10.4 million, net of tax. NET EARNINGS Net earnings as compared with fiscal 2006 increased $205.0 million to $449.2 million and diluted net earnings per common share improved 93% from $1.12 to $2.16. Net earnings from continuing operations as compared with fiscal 2006 increased by $124.2 million, or 38%, to $448.7 million and diluted net earnings per common share from continuing operations increased 45% from $1.49 to $2.16. FINANCIAL CONDITION LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our principal sources of funds historically have been cash flows from operations, borrowings pursuant to our commercial paper program, borrowings from the issuance of long term debt and committed and uncommitted credit lines provided by banks and other lenders in the United States and abroad. At June 30, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $401.7 million compared with $253.7 million at June 30, 2007. At June 30, 2008, our outstanding borrowings were as follows: Long term Debt Short term Debt Total Debt (In millions) 6.00% Senior Notes, due May 15, 2037 (2037 Senior Notes) (1) $ 296.2 $ $ 296.2 5.75% Senior Notes, due October 15, 2033 (2033 Senior Notes) (2) 197.5 197.5 5.55% Senior Notes, due May 15, 2017 (2017 Senior Notes) (3) 310.4 310.4 6.00% Senior Notes, due January 15, 2012 (2012 Senior Notes) (4) 242.0 242.0 $13.5 million promissory note due August 31, 2012 (5) 15.7 15.7 $7.0 million promissory note due July 31, 2009 (6) 7.4 7.4 Commercial paper maturing through July 2008 (2.24% average interest rate) 83.9 83.9 Turkish lira overdraft facility 13.1 13.1 Other borrowings 9.0 21.7 30.7 $ 1,078.2 $ 118.7 $ 1,196.9 (1) Consists of $300.0 million principal and unamortized debt discount of $3.8 million. (2) Consists of $200.0 million principal and unamortized debt discount of $2.5 million. (3) Consists of $300.0 million principal, unamortized debt discount of $0.4 million and a $10.8 million adjustment to reflect the fair value of outstanding interest rate swaps. (4) Consists of $250.0 million principal, unamortized debt discount of $0.4 million and a $7.6 million adjustment to reflect the remaining termination value of an interest rate swap that is being amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt. (5) Consists of $13.5 million face value and unamortized premium of $2.2 million. (6) Consists of $7.0 million face value and unamortized premium of $0.4 million. We have a $750.0 million commercial paper program under which we may issue commercial paper in the United States. Our commercial paper is currently rated A 1 by Standard & Poors and P 1 by Moodys. Our long term credit ratings are A with a stable outlook by Standard & Poors and A2 with a stable outlook by Moodys. At June 30, 2008, we had $83.9 million of commercial paper outstanding, which we may refinance on a periodic basis as it matures at then prevailing market interest rates. We also have $209.9 million in additional uncommitted credit facilities, of which $28.5 million was used as of June 30, 2008. 32 Table of Contents We have an undrawn $750.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on April 26, 2012. This facility may be used primarily to provide credit support for our commercial paper program, to repurchase shares of our common stock and for general corporate purposes. Up to the equivalent of $250 million of the credit facility is available for multi currency loans. The interest rate on borrowings under the credit facility is based on LIBOR or on the higher of prime, which is the rate of interest publicly announced by the administrative agent, or % plus the Federal funds rate. We incurred costs of approximately $0.3 million to establish the facility which will be amortized over the term of the facility. The credit facility has an annual fee of $0.4 million, payable quarterly, based on our current credit ratings. As of June 30, 2008, we were in compliance with all related financial and other restrictive covenants, including limitations on indebtedness and liens. In July 2007, we acquired Ojon Corporation. As part of the purchase price, we issued (i) a promissory note due July 31, 2009 with a notional value of $7.0 million (present value of $7.4 million at June 30, 2008), bearing interest at 10.00% due at maturity and (ii) a promissory note due August 31, 2012 with a notional amount of $13.5 million (present value of $15.7 million at June 30, 2008), bearing interest at 10.00% payable annually on July 31. The notes due in 2009 and 2012 were recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at present value using effective rates of 5.11% and 5.42%, respectively. We have a fixed rate promissory note agreement with a financial institution pursuant to which we may borrow up to $150.0 million in the form of loan participation notes through one of our subsidiaries in Europe. The interest rate on borrowings under this agreement is at an all in fixed rate determined by the lender and agreed to by us at the date of each borrowing. At June 30, 2008, no borrowings were outstanding under this agreement. Debt issuance costs incurred related to this agreement were de minimis. We have an overdraft borrowing agreement with a financial institution pursuant to which our subsidiary in Turkey may be credited to satisfy outstanding negative daily balances arising from its business operations. The total balance outstanding at any time shall not exceed 20.0 million Turkish lira. The interest rate applicable to each such credit shall be 40 basis points per annum above the spot rate charged by the lender or the lenders floating call rate agreed to by us at each borrowing. There were no debt issuance costs incurred related to this agreement. The outstanding balance at June 30, 2008 ($13.1 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2008) is classified as short term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. Subsequent to June 30, 2008, this facility was increased to 30.0 million Turkish lira and the interest rate spread on borrowings was increased to 55 basis points per annum. We have a 3.0 billion yen revolving credit facility that expires on March 24, 2009. The interest rate on borrowings under the credit facility is based on TIBOR (Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate) and a 10 basis point facility fee is incurred on the undrawn balance. At June 30, 2008, no borrowings were outstanding under this facility. Our business is seasonal in nature and, accordingly, our working capital needs vary. From time to time, we may enter into investing and financing transactions that require additional funding. To the extent that these needs exceed cash from operations, we could, subject to market conditions, issue commercial paper, issue long term debt securities or borrow under our revolving credit facilities. Total debt as a percent of total capitalization was 42% at June 30, 2008 and 48% at June 30, 2007. The effects of inflation have not been significant to our overall operating results in recent years. Generally, we have been able to introduce new products at higher selling prices or increase selling prices sufficiently to offset cost increases, which have been moderate. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that cash on hand, cash generated from operations, available credit lines and access to credit markets will be adequate to support currently planned business operations, information systems enhancements, capital expenditures, stock repurchases, commitments and other contractual obligations on both a near term and long term basis. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $690.1 million, $661.6 million and $709.8 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2008 as compared with fiscal 2007 primarily reflected a higher level of cash generated from net earnings before non cash items such as depreciation, amortization and stock based compensation. Approximately $91 million of the change in deferred income taxes was offset by a correlative change in noncurrent accrued income taxes reflecting the balance sheet presentation of unrecognized tax benefits (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). These changes were partially offset by the timing and level of payments on trade payables in North America and higher accounts receivable levels, primarily reflecting the continuing significant sales growth from our international operations, which carry longer customer payment terms. The net decrease in operating cash flows from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007 reflected higher domestic and international inventory levels primarily driven by growth in new and emerging international markets, increased regulatory requirements and the building of safety stock for the implementation of SAP as part of our Strategic Modernization Initiative at our Aveda manufacturing facility. In addition, the decrease in operating cash flows reflected higher accounts receivable balances, primarily related to significant sales growth from our international operations. Cash flows were also impacted by cash payments made during fiscal 2007 related to our fiscal 2006 cost savings initiative. Partially offsetting the decrease was an improvement in cash generated from net earnings from continuing operations. 33 Table of Contents Net cash used for investing activities was $478.5 million, $373.8 million and $303.2 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. The increase during fiscal 2008 primarily reflected cash payments related to the acquisition of Ojon Corporation and the exclusive rights to sell and distribute Ojon products worldwide, and to a lesser extent, the acquisition of an Aveda distributor. Capital expenditures also increased from the prior year reflecting incremental spending for counters and the higher costs of technology related to our continuing company wide initiative to upgrade our information systems. The increase in cash flows used for investing activities from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007 primarily reflected capital expenditures, which reflected our company wide initiative to upgrade our information systems, as well as store improvements and counter construction. Fiscal 2007 investing activities also reflected the purchase of the remaining equity interest in Bumble and Bumble Products, LLC and Bumble and Bumble, LLC, as well as the acquisition of businesses engaged in the wholesale distribution and retail sale of our products in the United States and other countries. Cash used for financing activities was $78.1 million, $411.6 million and $594.6 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The fiscal 2008 improvement in cash used for financing activities primarily reflected higher treasury stock repurchases in the prior year, which were partially funded by the issuance of long term debt. Also contributing to the change in net cash used for financing activities was an increase in outstanding commercial paper, partially offset by lower cash inflows from stock option exercises. The improvement in cash flows used for financing activities from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007 reflected a net increase in short term and long term borrowings and an increase in proceeds from employee stock transactions, partially offset by increases in treasury stock repurchases and an increase in dividends paid to stockholders. Dividends On November 9, 2007, the Board of Directors declared an annual dividend of $.55 per share on our Class A and Class B Common Stock, of which an aggregate of $106.6 million was paid on December 27, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 7, 2007. The annual common stock dividend declared during fiscal 2007 was $.50 per share, of which an aggregate of $103.6 million was paid on December 27, 2006 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 8, 2006. Pension Plan Funding and Expense We maintain pension plans covering substantially all of our full time employees for our U.S. operations and a majority of our international operations. Several plans provide pension benefits based primarily on years of service and employees earnings. In the United States, we maintain a trust based, noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (U.S. Qualified Plan). Additionally, we have an unfunded, non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations. Our international pension plans are comprised of defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Several factors influence our annual funding requirements. For the U.S. Qualified Plan, our funding policy consists of annual contributions at a rate that provides for future plan benefits and maintains appropriate funded percentages. Such contribution is not less than the minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), and subsequent pension legislation, and is not more than the maximum amount deductible for income tax purposes. For each international plan, our funding policies are determined by local laws and regulations. In addition, amounts necessary to fund future obligations under these plans could vary depending on estimated assumptions (as detailed in Critical Accounting Polices and Estimates). The effect of our pension plan funding on future operating results will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, the number of participants electing to take lump sum distributions, investment performance and funding decisions. For fiscal 2008 and 2007, there was no minimum contribution to the U.S. Qualified Plan required by ERISA. During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 was adopted into law in the United States. Certain provisions of this law changed the calculation related to the maximum contribution amount deductible for income tax purposes. As a result of these provisions, we made discretionary contributions totaling $25.0 million and $20.0 million to the U.S. Qualified Plan during fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. During fiscal 2009, we expect to make cash contributions totaling approximately $15 million to the U.S. Qualified Plan. For fiscal 2008 and 2007, we made benefit payments under our non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan of $7.7 million and $5.3 million, respectively. We expect to make benefit payments under this plan during fiscal 2009 of approximately $7 million. For fiscal 2008 and 2007, we made cash contributions to our international defined benefit pension plans of $35.3 million and $24.0 million, respectively. We expect to make contributions under these plans during fiscal 2009 of approximately $46 million. Commitments and Contingencies Certain of our business acquisition agreements include earn out provisions. These provisions generally require that we pay to the seller or sellers of the business additional amounts based on the performance of the acquired business. Since the size of each payment depends upon performance of the acquired business, we do not expect that such payments will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial condition. For additional contingencies, refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 34 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed and determinable as of June 30, 2008: Payments Due in Fiscal Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter (In millions) Debt service (1) $ 2,192.2 $ 176.6 $ 70.4 $ 61.1 $ 309.8 $ 56.8 $ 1,517.5 Operating lease commitments 1,338.5 200.8 180.9 156.0 132.6 119.3 548.9 Unconditional purchase obligations (2) 2,081.2 1,157.0 228.4 191.3 158.4 150.0 196.1 Gross unrecognized tax benefits and interest current (3) 75.7 75.7 Total contractual obligations $ 5,687.6 $ 1,610.1 $ 479.7 $ 408.4 $ 600.8 $ 326.1 $ 2,262.5 (1) Includes long term and short term debt and the related projected interest costs, and to a lesser extent, capital lease commitments. Interest costs on long term and short term debt are projected to be $57.6 million in fiscal 2009, $58.8 million in fiscal 2010, $57.4 million in each of the years from fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2012, $42.5 million in fiscal 2013 and $713.8 million thereafter. Projected interest costs on variable rate instruments were calculated using market rates at June 30, 2008. Refer to Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Unconditional purchase obligations primarily include inventory commitments, estimated future earn out payments, estimated royalty payments pursuant to license agreements, advertising commitments, capital improvement commitments, planned funding of pension and other post retirement benefit obligations, commitments pursuant to executive compensation arrangements and obligations related to our cost savings initiative. Future earn out payments and future royalty and advertising commitments were estimated based on planned future sales for the term that was in effect at June 30, 2008, without consideration for potential renewal periods. (3) Refer to Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding unrecognized tax benefits. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we made a cash payment of $35.0 million to the U.S. Treasury as an advance deposit, which is not reflected as a reduction to the $75.7 million. As of June 30, 2008, the noncurrent portion of our unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued interest and penalties was $177.3 million. At this time, the settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued interest and penalties, cannot be determined and therefore was not included. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities We address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We primarily enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. We also enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage the effects of fluctuating interest rates. We categorize these instruments as entered into for purposes other than trading. For each derivative contract entered into where we look to obtain special hedge accounting treatment, we formally document the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the nature of the risk being hedged, how the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the hedged risk will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively, and a description of the method of measuring ineffectiveness. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair value, cash flow, or foreign currency hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. We also formally assess, both at the hedges inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective, then we will be required to discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that derivative prospectively. 35 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk Management We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge anticipated transactions, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies, for periods consistent with our identified exposures. The purpose of the hedging activities is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on our costs and on the cash flows that we receive from foreign subsidiaries. The majority of foreign currency forward contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries and are with large financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a major rating agency. We also enter into foreign currency option contracts to hedge anticipated transactions where there is a high probability that anticipated exposures will materialize. The foreign currency forward and option contracts entered into to hedge anticipated transactions have been designated as cash flow hedges. Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency forward contracts is based on a hypothetical derivative methodology and excludes the portion of fair value attributable to the spot forward difference which is recorded in current period earnings. Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency option contracts is based on a dollar offset methodology. The ineffective portion of both foreign currency forward and option contracts is recorded in current period earnings. For hedge contracts that are no longer deemed highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued and gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to earnings when the underlying forecasted transaction occurs. If it is probable that the forecasted transaction will no longer occur, then any gains or losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to current period earnings. As of June 30, 2008, these cash flow hedges were highly effective, in all material respects. As a matter of policy, we only enter into contracts with counterparties that have at least an A (or equivalent) credit rating. The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions. We do not have significant exposure to any one counterparty. Our exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by any of the counterparties is limited to only the recognized, but not realized, gains attributable to the contracts. Management believes risk of default under these hedging contracts is remote and in any event would not be material to the consolidated financial results. The contracts have varying maturities through the end of June 2009. Costs associated with entering into such contracts have not been material to our consolidated financial results. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. At June 30, 2008, we had foreign currency forward contracts and option contracts in the amount of $1,229.0 million and $64.9 million, respectively. The foreign currencies included in foreign currency forward contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the Euro ($221.6 million), British pound ($220.7 million), Swiss franc ($206.5 million), Canadian dollar ($130.0 million), Australian dollar ($91.8 million), Russian ruble ($71.9 million) and Japanese yen ($64.4 million). The foreign currencies included in foreign currency option contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the Canadian dollar ($36.8 million) and the South Korean won ($23.1 million). Interest Rate Risk Management We enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage the exposure to fluctuations of interest rates on our funded indebtedness and anticipated issuance of debt for periods consistent with the identified exposures. All interest rate derivative contracts are with large financial institutions rated as strong investment grade by a major rating agency. We have interest rate swap agreements, with a notional amount totaling $250.0 million, to effectively convert the fixed rate interest on our 2017 Senior Notes to variable interest rates based on six month LIBOR. The interest rate swaps were designated as fair value hedges. As of June 30, 2008, these fair value hedges were highly effective, in all material respects. Market Risk We use a value at risk model to assess the market risk of our derivative financial instruments. Value at risk represents the potential losses for an instrument or portfolio from adverse changes in market factors for a specified time period and confidence level. We estimate value at risk across all of our derivative financial instruments using a model with historical volatilities and correlations calculated over the past 250 day period. The measured value at risk, calculated as an average, for the twelve months ended June 30, 2008 related to our foreign exchange contracts and our interest rate contracts was $11.3 million and $20.0 million, respectively. The model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95 percent confidence level. We used a statistical simulation model that valued our derivative financial instruments against one thousand randomly generated market price paths. Our calculated value at risk exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on our portfolio of derivative financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may or may not occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures, and the timing thereof, and changes in our portfolio of derivative financial instruments during the year. We believe, however, that any such loss incurred would be offset by the effects of market rate movements on the respective underlying transactions for which the derivative financial instrument was intended. 36 Table of Contents OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not maintain any off balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect upon our financial condition or results of operations. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), to clarify the definition of fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and expand the disclosures on fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). SFAS No. 157 also stipulates that, as a market based measurement, fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, and establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between (a) market participant assumptions developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs) and (b) the reporting entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions developed based on the best information available in the circumstances (unobservable inputs). In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13. This FSP amends SFAS No. 157 to exclude certain leasing transactions accounted for under previously existing accounting guidance. However, this scope exception does not apply to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, regardless of whether those assets and liabilities are related to leases. SFAS No. 157 becomes effective for us in the beginning of fiscal 2009. We are currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of SFAS No. 157 on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 2, Effective Date for FASB Statement No. 157. This FSP permits the delayed application of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, as defined in this FSP, except for those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements at least annually, until the beginning of our fiscal 2010. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS No. 159), to permit all entities to choose to elect, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value. An entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront costs and fees related to those items in earnings as incurred and not deferred. SFAS No. 159 applies to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, with early adoption permitted for an entity that has also elected to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 157. An entity is prohibited from retrospectively applying SFAS No. 159, unless it chooses early adoption. We are currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of SFAS No. 159 on our consolidated financial statements, if any, when it becomes effective in the beginning of fiscal 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). SFAS No. 141(R) replaces SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, however, it retains the fundamental requirements of the former Statement that the acquisition method of accounting (previously referred to as the purchase method) be used for all business combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) defines the acquirer as the entity that obtains control of one or more businesses in the business combination and establishes the acquisition date as the date that the acquirer achieves control. Among other requirements, SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their acquisition date fair values, with limited exceptions; acquisition related costs generally will be expensed as incurred. SFAS No. 141(R) requires certain financial statement disclosures to enable users to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) must be applied prospectively to business combinations that are consummated on or after July 1, 2009. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No. 160) to establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. Among other requirements, SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, which is sometimes referred to as minority interest, is to be reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 160 also requires consolidated net income to include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest and to disclose those amounts on the face of the consolidated statement of income. SFAS No. 160 must be applied prospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning in our fiscal 2010, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. 37 Table of Contents In December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 07 1, Collaborative Arrangements, (EITF No. 07 1). This EITF addresses accounting for collaborative arrangement activities that are conducted without the creation of a separate legal entity for the arrangement. Revenues and costs incurred with third parties in connection with the collaborative arrangement should be presented gross or net by the collaborators pursuant to the guidance in EITF 99 19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent, and other applicable accounting literature. Payments to or from collaborators should be presented in the income statement based on the nature of the arrangement, the nature of the companys business and whether the payments are within the scope of other accounting literature. Other detailed information related to the collaborative arrangement is also required to be disclosed. The requirements under this EITF must be applied to collaborative arrangements in existence at the beginning of our fiscal 2010 using a modified version of retrospective application. We are currently evaluating the impact the provisions of EITF No. 07 1 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 requires companies to provide qualitative disclosures about their objectives and strategies for using derivative instruments, quantitative disclosures of the fair values and gains and losses of these derivative instruments in a tabular format, as well as more information about liquidity by requiring disclosure of a derivative contracts credit risk related contingent features. SFAS No. 161 also requires cross referencing within footnotes to enable financial statement users to locate important information about derivative instruments. We are currently evaluating the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 161. As this is a disclosure only standard, we do not anticipate an impact on our consolidated financial statements as a result of its adoption. SFAS No. 161 becomes effective for our March 2009 interim consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets. This FSP amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142). This FSP also adds certain disclosures to those already prescribed in SFAS No. 142. FSP No. FAS 142 3 becomes effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning in our fiscal 2010. The guidance for determining useful lives must be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after the effective date. The disclosure requirements must be applied prospectively to all intangible assets recognized as of the effective date. In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities. This FSP provides that unvested share based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two class method. This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. Upon adoption, a company is required to retrospectively adjust its earnings per share data (including any amounts related to interim periods, summaries of earnings and selected financial data) to conform with the provisions in this FSP. Early application of this FSP is prohibited. We do not issue share based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents. FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION We and our representatives from time to time make written or oral forward looking statements, including statements contained in this and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in our reports to stockholders. The words and phrases will likely result, expect, believe, planned, may, should, could, anticipate, estimate, project, intend, forecast or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, without limitation, our expectations regarding sales, earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, product introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information systems initiatives, new methods of sale and future operations or operating results. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations, actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, without limitation: (1) increased competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than we do; (2) our ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating results may depend and to successfully address challenges in our core brands, including gift with purchase, and in our fragrance business; (3) consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing a decrease in the number of stores that sell our products, an increase in the ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by our competitors or ownership of competitors by our customers that are retailers; (4) destocking by retailers; 38 Table of Contents (5) the success, or changes in timing or scope, of new product launches and the success, or changes in the timing or the scope, of advertising, sampling and merchandising programs; (6) shifts in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of products and services we sell; (7) social, political and economic risks to our foreign or domestic manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States; (8) changes in the laws, regulations and policies (including the interpretations and enforcement thereof) that affect, or will affect, our business, including those relating to our products, changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result; (9) foreign currency fluctuations affecting our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and our operating and manufacturing costs outside of the United States; (10) changes in global or local conditions, including those due to natural or man made disasters, real or perceived epidemics, or energy costs, that could affect consumer purchasing, the willingness or ability of consumers to travel and or purchase our products while traveling, the financial strength of our customers, suppliers or other contract counterparties, our operations, the cost and availability of capital which we may need for new equipment, facilities or acquisitions, the cost and availability of raw materials and the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates; (11) shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from disruptions of operations at any of the facilities that manufacture nearly all of our supply of a particular type of product (i.e., focus factories) or at our distribution or inventory centers, including disruptions that may be caused by the implementation of SAP as part of our Strategic Modernization Initiative; (12) real estate rates and availability, which may affect our ability to increase the number of retail locations at which we sell our products and the costs associated with our other facilities; (13) changes in product mix to products which are less profitable; (14) our ability to acquire, develop or implement new information and distribution technologies, on a timely basis and within our cost estimates; (15) our ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as publicly announced cost savings initiatives, and to integrate acquired businesses and realize value therefrom; (16) consequences attributable to the events that are currently taking place in the Middle East, including terrorist attacks, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation; (17) the timing and impact of acquisitions and divestitures, which depend on willing sellers and buyers, respectively; and (18) additional factors as described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. We assume no responsibility to update forward looking statements made herein or otherwise. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
