Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition at June 30, 2009 and our results of operations for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in those financial statements. These judgments can be subjective and complex and, consequently, actual results could differ from those estimates. Our most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, inventory, pension and other post retirement benefit costs, goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, income taxes and derivatives. Management of the Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Revenues from merchandise sales are recognized upon transfer of ownership, including passage of title to the customer and transfer of the risk of loss related to those goods. In the Americas region, sales are generally recognized at the time the product is shipped to the customer and in the Europe, Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific regions sales are generally recognized based upon the customers receipt. In certain circumstances, transfer of title takes place at the point of sale, for example, at our retail stores. Sales at our retail stores and online are recognized in accordance with a traditional 4 4 5 retail calendar, where each fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4 week periods and one 5 week period, with one extra week in one quarter every seven years. As a result, the retail quarter end and the fiscal quarter end may be different by up to six days. Revenues are reported on a net sales basis, which is computed by deducting from gross sales the amount of actual product returns received, discounts, incentive arrangements with retailers and an amount established for anticipated product returns. Our practice is to accept product returns from retailers only if properly requested, authorized and approved. In accepting returns, we typically provide a credit to the retailer against accounts receivable from that retailer. As a percentage of gross sales, returns were 4.4%, 4.4% and 4.2% in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our sales return accrual is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net sales. This accrual is calculated based on a history of actual returns, estimated future returns and information provided by authorized retailers regarding their inventory levels. Consideration of these factors results in an accrual for anticipated sales returns that reflects increases or decreases related to seasonal fluctuations. Experience has shown a relationship between retailer inventory levels and sales returns in the subsequent period, as well as a consistent pattern of returns due to the seasonal nature of our business. In addition, as necessary, specific accruals may be established for significant future known or anticipated events. The types of known or anticipated events that we have considered, and will continue to consider, include, but are not limited to, the financial condition of our customers, store closings by retailers, changes in the retail environment and our decision to continue or support new and existing products. In the ordinary course of business, we have established an allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions based upon the evaluation of accounts receivable aging, specific exposures and historical trends. Our allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net earnings. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $41.4 million and $26.3 million as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $14.1 million, $10.2 million and $18.2 million for customer deductions and write offs in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and increased by $29.2 million, $13.2 million and $14.4 million for additional provisions in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Inventory We state our inventory at the lower of cost or fair market value, with cost being determined on the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe FIFO most closely matches the flow of our products from manufacture through sale. The reported net value of our inventory includes saleable products, promotional products, raw materials and componentry and work in process that will be sold or used in future periods. Inventory cost includes raw materials, direct labor and overhead, as well as inbound freight. Manufacturing overhead is allocated to the cost of inventory based on the normal production capacity. Unallocated overhead during periods of abnormally low production levels are recognized as cost of sales in the period in which they are incurred. 19 Table of Contents We also record an inventory obsolescence reserve, which represents the difference between the cost of the inventory and its estimated realizable value, based on various product sales projections. This reserve is calculated using an estimated obsolescence percentage applied to the inventory based on age, historical trends and requirements to support forecasted sales. In addition, and as necessary, we may establish specific reserves for future known or anticipated events. Pension and Other Post retirement Benefit Costs We offer the following benefits to some or all of our employees: a domestic trust based noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (U.S. Qualified Plan) and an unfunded, non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations (collectively with the U.S. Qualified Plan, the Domestic Plans); a domestic contributory defined contribution plan; international pension plans, which vary by country, consisting of both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans; deferred compensation arrangements; and certain other post retirement benefit plans. The amounts needed to fund future payouts under these plans are subject to numerous assumptions and variables. Certain significant variables require us to make assumptions that are within our control such as an anticipated discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and future compensation levels. We evaluate these assumptions with our actuarial advisors and select assumptions that we believe reflect the economics underlying our pension and post retirement obligations. While we believe these assumptions are within accepted industry ranges, an increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our control could have a direct impact on reported net earnings. The discount rate for each plan used for determining future net periodic benefit cost is based on a review of highly rated long term bonds. For fiscal 2009, we used a discount rate for our Domestic Plans of 6.75% and varying rates on our international plans of between 2.00% and 9.00%. The discount rate for our Domestic Plans is based on a bond portfolio that includes only long term bonds with an Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency. We believe the timing and amount of cash flows related to the bonds included in this portfolio is expected to match the estimated defined benefit payment streams of our Domestic Plans. For fiscal 2009, we used an expected return on plan assets of 7.75% for our U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates of between 3.25% and 9.00% for our international plans. In determining the long term rate of return for a plan, we consider the historical rates of return, the nature of the plans investments and an expectation for the plans investment strategies. The U.S. Qualified Plan asset allocation as of June 30, 2009 was approximately 32% equity investments, 51% debt securities and 17% other investments. The asset allocation of our combined international plans as of June 30, 2009 was approximately 19% equity investments, 59% debt securities and 22% other investments. The difference between actual and expected return on plan assets is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Those gains/losses that are subject to amortization over future periods will be recognized as a component of the net periodic benefit cost in such future periods. For fiscal 2009, our pension plans had actual negative return on assets of $60.5 million as compared with expected return on assets of $52.2 million, which resulted in a net deferred loss of $112.7 million, of which approximately $48 million is currently subject to be amortized over periods ranging from approximately 4 to 22 years. The actual negative return on assets was primarily related to the performance of equity markets during the past fiscal year. A 25 basis point change in the discount rate or the expected rate of return on plan assets would have had the following effect on fiscal 2009 pension expense: (In millions) 25 Basis Point Increase 25 Basis Point Decrease Discount rate $ (1.5 ) $ 2.4 Expected return on assets $ (1.9 ) $ 1.9 Our post retirement plans are comprised of health care plans that could be impacted by health care cost trend rates, which may have a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates for fiscal 2009 would have had the following effects: (In millions) One Percentage Point Increase One Percentage Point Decrease Effect on total service and interest costs $ 1.2 $ (1.1 ) Effect on post retirement benefit obligations $ 8.8 $ (8.4 ) For fiscal 2010, we are using a discount rate for the Domestic Plans of 6.50% and varying rates for our international plans of between 1.75% and 8.75%. We are using an expected return on plan assets of 7.75% for the U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates for our international pension plans of between 2.75% and 8.75%. The net change in these assumptions from those used in fiscal 2009 will result in an increase in pension expense of approximately $1.5 million in fiscal 2010. We will continue to monitor the market conditions relative to these assumptions and adjust them accordingly. 20 Table of Contents Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Other Long Lived Assets Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the fair value of their underlying net assets. Other indefinite lived intangible assets principally consist of trademarks. Goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized. We assess goodwill and other indefinite lived intangibles at least annually for impairment as of the beginning of the fiscal fourth quarter, or more frequently if certain events or circumstances warrant. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments. We identify our reporting units by assessing whether the components of our operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial information is available and management of each reporting unit regularly reviews the operating results of those components. Impairment testing is performed in two steps: (i) we determine impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value, and (ii) if there is an impairment, we measure the amount of impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets encompasses calculating a fair value of an indefinite lived intangible asset and comparing the fair value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, impairment is recorded. Testing goodwill for impairment requires us to estimate fair values of reporting units using significant estimates and assumptions. The assumptions made will impact the outcome and ultimate results of the testing. We use industry accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by various levels of management and, in certain instances, we engage third party valuation specialists to advise us. To determine fair value of the reporting unit, we generally use an equal weighting of the income and market approaches. In certain circumstances, equal weighting will not be applied if one of these methods may be less reliable (e.g., only the income approach would be used for reporting units with existing negative margins). We believe both approaches are equally relevant and the most reliable indications of fair value because the fair value of product or service companies is more dependent on the ability to generate earnings than on the value of the assets used in the production process. Under the income approach, we determine fair value using a discounted cash flow method, estimating future cash flows of each reporting unit, as well as terminal value, and discounting such cash flows at a rate of return that reflects the relative risk of the cash flows. Under the market approach, we utilize information from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting units, which creates valuation multiples that are applied to the operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, to value the reporting unit. The key estimates and factors used in these two approaches include, but are not limited to, revenue growth rates and profit margins based on internal forecasts, terminal value, the weighted average cost of capital used to discount future cash flows and comparable market multiples. The fiscal 2009 compound annual growth rate of sales for the first eight years of our projections ranged between 6% and 19% with the higher growth rates in those reporting units that start with the smallest base in fiscal 2009. The fiscal 2008 compound annual growth rate of sales for the first five years of our projections ranged between 10% and 21% with the higher growth rates in those reporting units that start with the smallest base in fiscal 2008. For reporting units with positive earnings, growth in the corresponding earnings before interest and taxes ranged from 6% to 46% in fiscal 2009 as compared with 10% to 31% in fiscal 2008. The terminal growth rates were projected at 3% after eight years in fiscal 2009 as compared with 3% after five years in fiscal 2008, which reflects our estimate of long term market and gross domestic product growth. The weighted average cost of capital used to discount future cash flows ranged from 11% to 17% in fiscal 2009 as compared with 10% to 15% in fiscal 2008. The range of market multiples used in our fiscal 2009 impairment testing was from 2 to 3 times trailing twelve month sales and 10 times trailing twelve month earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization. The range of market multiples used in our fiscal 2008 impairment testing was from 2 to 3 times trailing twelve month sales and 11 to 14 times trailing twelve month earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization. Future changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the results of our reviews for impairment of goodwill. However, a decrease of 30 basis points in our terminal growth rate or an increase of 30 basis points in our weighted average cost of capital would still result in a fair value calculation exceeding our book value for each of our reporting units. Changes in the valuation assumptions from those used in the prior year primarily reflect the impact of the current economic environment on the reporting units and their projected future results of operations. To determine fair value of other indefinite lived intangible assets, we use an income approach, the relief from royalty method. This method assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to obtain the rights to use the comparable asset. Other indefinite lived intangible assets fair values require significant judgments in determining both the assets estimated cash flows as well as the appropriate discount and royalty rates applied to those cash flows to determine fair value. Changes in such estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results. We review other long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, a recoverability test is performed comparing projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment would be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value, which is determined by discounting future cash flows. 21 Table of Contents As the duration and magnitude of the volatility of the current economic conditions remain uncertain, we will continue to monitor and evaluate the potential impact on our business and on our interim and annual impairment testing. Accordingly, it is possible that we would recognize an impairment charge in the future with respect to goodwill, intangible assets and other long lived assets. Income Taxes We account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. As of June 30, 2009, we have current net deferred tax assets of $202.7 million and non current net deferred tax assets of $156.0 million. The net deferred tax assets assume sufficient future earnings for their realization, as well as the continued application of currently anticipated tax rates. Included in net deferred tax assets is a valuation allowance of $23.5 million for deferred tax assets, where management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the relevant jurisdiction. Based on our assessments, no additional valuation allowance is required. If we determine that a deferred tax asset will not be realizable, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will result in a reduction of net earnings at that time. We provide tax reserves for Federal, state, local and international exposures relating to periods subject to audit. The development of reserves for these exposures requires judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical estimate. We assess our tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting dates. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a tax authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. We classify applicable interest and penalties as a component of the provision for income taxes. Although the outcome relating to these exposures is uncertain, in managements opinion adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for estimable potential liabilities emanating from these exposures. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties which render them inestimable. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations. Derivatives We address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We primarily enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate derivatives to manage the effects of interest rate movements on our aggregate liability portfolio. We also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to mitigate the change in fair value of specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Hedge effectiveness is documented, assessed and monitored by employees who are qualified to make such assessments and monitor the instruments. Variables that are external to us such as social, political and economic risks may have an impact on our hedging program and the results thereof. Our derivative financial instruments are recorded as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair value. All derivatives outstanding as of June 30, 2009 are (i) designated as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge), (ii) designated as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (foreign currency cash flow hedge), or (iii) not designated as a hedging instrument. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge that is highly effective are recorded in current period earnings, along with the loss or gain on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk (including losses or gains on firm commitments). Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a foreign currency cash flow hedge of a foreign currency denominated forecasted transaction that is highly effective are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI). Gains and losses deferred in OCI are then recognized in current period earnings when earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows of the hedged foreign currency denominated forecasted transaction (e.g., when periodic settlements on a variable rate asset or liability are recorded in earnings). Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments are reported in current period earnings. For a discussion on the quantitative impact of market risks related to our derivative financial instruments, refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk. Quantitative Analysis During the three year period ended June 30, 2009 there have not been material changes in the assumptions underlying these critical accounting policies, nor to the related significant estimates. The results of our business underlying these assumptions have not differed significantly from our expectations. 22 Table of Contents While we believe that the estimates that we have made are proper and the related results of operations for the period are presented fairly in all material respects, other assumptions could reasonably be justified that would change the amount of reported net sales, cost of sales, operating expenses or our provision for income taxes as they relate to the provisions for anticipated sales returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory obsolescence reserve and income taxes. For fiscal 2009, had these estimates been changed simultaneously by 2.5% in either direction, our reported gross profit would have increased or decreased by approximately $5.0 million, operating expenses would have changed by approximately $1.0 million and the provision for income taxes would have increased or decreased by approximately $2.9 million. The collective impact of these changes on operating income, net earnings and net earnings per diluted common share would be an increase or decrease of approximately $6.0 million, $8.9 million and $.04, respectively. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Global economic challenges and uncertainties have had a significant impact on our business during fiscal 2009. These challenges and uncertainties have negatively affected consumer demand, which is having an adverse impact on our customers that are retailers as well as on our own retail stores. These events have led to significant retailer destocking and changes in their ordering patterns for the products that we sell, which has contributed to the overall decline in our results of operations during this year. In the Americas region, the U.S. department store channel experienced a very soft retail environment, which deteriorated beyond our expectations. While our business continues to suffer from lower store traffic and destocking, we believe that we gained share in the skin care category at U.S. department stores with the help of positive consumer response to new product offerings and gift sets. Net sales results in alternative channels were generally mixed. Trends at our freestanding retail stores followed those in department stores while sales of our products online and via direct response television (DRTV) continued to grow. Global economic uncertainty has also impacted our business in Europe, the Middle East & Africa. Net sales in many of our key markets declined during fiscal 2009. Our business was also impacted by retailer destocking and tighter working capital management. Sales and profits in our travel retail business fell sharply due to a slowdown in passenger traffic, retailer destocking and the impact of weaker currencies. At this time, our business in the Asia/Pacific region has been least affected by the global financial crisis, with net sales rising double digits in several countries, although growth in the region has slowed overall including in Japan, our largest market there. Net sales in China grew at a faster pace than in the other countries in the region as we continue our expansion in this emerging market. Strong constant currency net sales increases in Korea were offset by the weakness of the Korean won. Despite the overall net sales increase in this region, growth has been tempered by a softer retail environment. In addition to the ongoing global financial crisis, our business has been negatively impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates caused by the dramatic strengthening of the U.S. dollar during fiscal 2009. If the U.S. dollar strengthens, there would be an adverse impact on our future results. We are taking actions to mitigate the impact of these economic conditions. We believe that the best way to increase stockholder value is to provide our customers and consumers with the products and services that they have come to expect from us in the most efficient and profitable manner while recognizing their changing shopping habits. To achieve our goal to be the global leader in prestige beauty, we are implementing a long term strategy to guide the Company through fiscal 2013. The plan has numerous initiatives across regions, product categories, brands and functions that are designed to leverage our strengths, make us more cost efficient and grow our sales. As part of our strategy, we plan to shift our category mix towards higher margin categories with greater global growth potential. Skin care, our most profitable category, is a strategic priority for our innovation and investment spending, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region. We also plan to strengthen our geographic presence by seeking share growth in large, image building cities within core markets such as the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Japan. In addition, we will continue to prioritize efforts to expand our presence and accelerate share growth in emerging markets such as China, Russia, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. While we expect the retail environment in North America to continue to be challenging, we recognize the need to restore profitable growth in our traditional department store channel. We have recently implemented changes to reshape our organization to meet the needs of the changing retail landscape. Internationally, we plan to achieve profitable growth in European perfumeries and pharmacies and in department stores in Asia, while accentuating our makeup and skin care initiatives to boost our travel retail business. In addition, we will continue our efforts to grow our business online and through DRTV. To optimize our portfolio, we will focus on improving our margins and share in our distribution channels. We plan to re energize certain of our brands through the introduction of products that feature advances in research and technology. At the same time, we will be investing in initiatives to incubate and develop next generation products and brands, as well as evaluating the viability of certain existing brands and products. We intend to leverage our regional organizations to increase effectiveness and efficiencies while utilizing strategic partnerships, alliances and licensing to build scale in research and development, distribution and third party manufacturing. 23 Table of Contents Charges Associated with Restructuring ActivitiesIn an effort to drive down costs and achieve synergies within our organization, in February 2009, we announced the implementation of a multi faceted cost savings program (the Program) to position the Company to achieve long term profitable growth. We anticipate the Program will result in related restructuring and other special charges in fiscal 2009 and over the next few fiscal years totaling between $350 million and $450 million before taxes. We expect that the implementation of this Program, combined with other on going cost savings efforts, will result in savings of approximately $450 million to $550 million (beginning with approximately $175 million to $200 million in fiscal 2010) including the reduction of certain costs relative to an assumed normalized spending pattern. Our long range forecast for operating margin reflects these anticipated savings, net of strategic reinvestments. The Program focuses on a redesign of our organizational structure in order to integrate the Company in a more cohesive way and operate more globally across brands and functions. The principal aspect of the Program is the reduction of the workforce by approximately 2,000 employees. Specific actions taken during fiscal 2009 included: Resize and Reorganize the Organization We began our realignment and optimization of our organization to better leverage scale, improve productivity and reduce complexity in each region and across various functions. This included reduction of the workforce, which occurred through the consolidation of certain functions through a combination of normal attrition and job eliminations, and a rationalization of manufacturing capacity via the scheduled closure of one of our manufacturing and assembly plants. Exit Unprofitable Operations To improve the profitability in certain of our brands and regions, we have selectively exited certain channels of distribution, categories and markets. In doing so, we incurred costs to reduce workforce, terminate contracts, write off fixed assets and discontinue certain product lines and stock keeping units. Outsourcing In order to balance the growing need for information technology support with our efforts to provide the most efficient and cost effective solutions, we initiated the outsourcing of certain information technology processes. We incurred costs to eliminate certain related headcount and to transition services to an outsource provider. For the year ended June 30, 2009, aggregate restructuring charges of $70.3 million were recorded in our consolidated statements of earnings related to the Program. These charges primarily reflected employee related costs, asset write offs, contract terminations and other exit costs. The following table presents the restructuring activity as of and for the year ended June 30, 2009 under the Program: Employee Related Costs Asset Write offs Contract Terminations Other Exit Costs Total Charges $ 60.9 $ 4.2 $ 3.4 $ 1.8 $ 70.3 Cash payments (7.5 ) (0.5 ) (1.6 ) (9.6 ) Non cash write offs (4.2 ) (4.2 ) Translation adjustments 0.6 0.6 Other adjustments (2.4 ) (2.4 ) Balance at June 30, 2009 $ 51.6 $ $ 2.9 $ 0.2 $ 54.7 Accrued restructuring charges at June 30, 2009 are expected to result in cash expenditures funded from cash provided by operations of approximately $48 million, $6 million and $1 million in fiscal 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. The total amount of restructuring charges incurred plus other initiatives approved through June 30, 2009, include approximately $75 million for employee related costs, approximately $6 million in asset write offs and approximately $8 million of contract terminations and other exit costs. We incurred other special charges in connection with the implementation of the Program for the year ended June 30, 2009 of $10.1 million related to consulting, other professional services, and accelerated depreciation. The total amount of other special charges expected to be incurred to implement these initiatives, including those incurred through June 30, 2009, is approximately $36 million. In addition to the other special charges, we recorded $8.1 million reflecting sales returns (less a related cost of sales of $1.2 million) and a write off of inventory associated with exiting unprofitable operations of $8.0 million. 24 Table of Contents During the year ended June 30, 2009, we recorded a gain of $3.6 million related to excess accruals that were recorded as other special charges in prior years. Total charges associated with restructuring activities included in operating income for the year ended June 30, 2009 were $91.7 million. While our business strategies are designed to strengthen the Company over the long term, we believe the uncertainty about future market conditions, consumer spending patterns and the financial strength of some of our retail customers, coupled with retailer destocking and tighter working capital management, will continue to negatively affect our net sales and operating results. In line with our strategic plan, we will continue to seek ways to contain costs and reduce our inventory levels. We manufacture, market and sell beauty products including those in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care categories which are distributed in over 140 countries and territories. The following table is a comparative summary of operating results from continuing operations for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 and reflects the basis of presentation described in Note 2 and Note 20 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented. Products and services that do not meet our definition of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care have been included in the other category. Year Ended June 30 2009 2008 2007 (In millions) NET SALES By Region: The Americas $ 3,421.2 $ 3,711.5 $ 3,560.9 Europe, the Middle East & Africa 2,611.3 3,006.7 2,493.4 Asia/Pacific 1,299.4 1,192.6 983.2 Returns associated with restructuring activities (8.1 ) $ 7,323.8 $ 7,910.8 $ 7,037.5 By Product Category: Skin Care $ 2,886.0 $ 2,996.8 $ 2,601.0 Makeup 2,830.9 3,000.4 2,712.7 Fragrance 1,150.9 1,432.0 1,308.6 Hair Care 402.4 427.1 377.1 Other 61.7 54.5 38.1 Returns associated with restructuring activities (8.1 ) $ 7,323.8 $ 7,910.8 $ 7,037.5 OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) By Region: The Americas $ 115.2 $ 228.3 $ 336.4 Europe, the Middle East & Africa 229.7 433.1 321.4 Asia/Pacific 165.2 149.7 93.2 Total charges associated with restructuring activities (91.7 ) (0.4 ) (1.1 ) $ 418.4 $ 810.7 $ 749.9 By Product Category: Skin Care $ 294.1 $ 405.6 $ 341.5 Makeup 279.8 359.4 339.3 Fragrance (60.8 ) 36.2 28.1 Hair Care 1.1 11.5 42.5 Other (4.1 ) (1.6 ) (0.4 ) Total charges associated with restructuring activities (91.7 ) (0.4 ) (1.1 ) $ 418.4 $ 810.7 $ 749.9 25 Table of Contents The following table presents certain consolidated earnings data as a percentage of net sales: Year Ended June 30 2009 2008 2007 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 25.7 25.2 25.2 Gross profit 74.3 74.8 74.8 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 66.7 64.3 64.0 Restructuring and other special charges 1.0 0.0 0.0 Goodwill impairment 0.2 0.1 Impairment of intangible and other long lived assets 0.7 0.2 0.0 68.6 64.5 64.1 Operating income 5.7 10.3 10.7 Interest expense, net 1.0 0.9 0.6 Earnings before income taxes, minority interest and discontinued operations 4.7 9.4 10.1 Provision for income taxes 1.6 3.3 3.6 Minority interest, net of tax (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Net earnings from continuing operations 3.0 6.0 6.4 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.0 Net earnings 3.0 % 6.0 % 6.4 % In order to meet the demands of consumers, we continually introduce new products, support new and established products through advertising, sampling and merchandising and phase out existing products that no longer meet the needs of our consumers. The economics of developing, producing, launching and supporting products influence our sales and operating performance each period. The introduction of new products may have some cannibalizing effect on sales of existing products, which we take into account in our business planning. Fiscal 2009 as Compared with Fiscal 2008 NET SALES Net sales decreased 7%, or $587.0 million, to $7,323.8 million, reflecting declines in each of our major product categories. Net sales decreases in Europe, the Middle East & Africa and the Americas reflected customer destocking in all of our major product categories. These declines were partially offset by growth in Asia/Pacific. Excluding the $389.4 million impact of foreign currency translation, net sales decreased 2%. The following discussions of Net Sales by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of returns associated with restructuring activities of $8.1 million incurred in fiscal 2009. We believe the following analysis of net sales better reflects the manner in which we conduct and view our business. Product Categories Skin Care Net sales of skin care products decreased 4%, or $110.8 million, to $2,886.0 million, primarily reflecting declines in net sales from our heritage brands. Despite the difficult economic environment and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation, we continued to enhance select product lines to address the needs of our consumers. The recent launches of Perfectionist [CP+] Wrinkle Lifting Serum and the new Time Zone line of moisturizing products from Este Lauder and Superdefense SPF 25 Age Defense Moisturizer and Youth Surge SPF 15 Age Decelerating Moisturizer from Clinique contributed incremental sales of approximately $181 million, combined. While these new product launches contributed favorably to the category, they were partially offset by lower sales from other existing products in the Perfectionist, Idealist and Re Nutriv lines from Este Lauder and the Superdefense and Repairwear lines from Clinique of approximately $163 million, combined. Net sales of most other product lines in this category also experienced declines, particularly in Europe, the Middle East & Africa and the Americas, partially offset by double digit growth in Asia/Pacific. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net sales increased 2%. 26 Table of Contents Makeup Makeup net sales decreased 6%, or $169.5 million, to $2,830.9 million, primarily reflecting lower net sales from our heritage brands of approximately $162 million. Lower net sales in the makeup product category also reflected a net decrease from our makeup artist brands of approximately $14 million, driven by the Americas region, partially offset by additional points of distribution internationally. These declines were mitigated in part by recent product launches of reformulated Superfit Makeup and High Impact Lip Colour SPF 15 from Clinique, as well as Este Lauder Signature Blush, which contributed incremental sales to the category of approximately $82 million, combined. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, makeup net sales decreased 1%. Fragrance Net sales of fragrance products decreased 20%, or $281.1 million, to $1,150.9 million. This decline was largely due to lower sales of designer fragrances, of which approximately $181 million was attributable to certain DKNY, Tommy Hilfiger and Sean John fragrances. Also contributing to the decrease were lower sales of certain Este Lauder and Clinique fragrances of approximately $132 million, combined. The recent launches of Este Lauder Sensuous, Hilfiger Men, the new DKNY Men fragrance and I Am King Sean John partially offset these declines by collectively contributing sales of approximately $88 million to the category. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, fragrance net sales decreased 14%. Hair Care Hair care net sales decreased 6%, or $24.7 million, to $402.4 million, primarily reflecting a soft salon retail environment and a reduction in points of distribution in the United States. Net sales were also negatively impacted as a result of the conclusion of a hotel amenities program in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. These declines were partially offset by incremental sales of approximately $13 million from new products, such as Dry Remedy Shampoo and Conditioner and the Sun Care line of products from Aveda. The category also benefited from improved sales of hair color products, as well as an increase in points of distribution outside of the United States, including the acquisition of an independent distributor in Australia. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, hair care net sales decreased 3%. Geographic Regions Net sales in the Americas decreased 8%, or $290.3 million, to $3,421.2 million. Lower net sales in the United States from our heritage and makeup artist brands as well as our hair care businesses contributed approximately $275 million to the decrease. Net sales declines in Canada of approximately $36 million were partially offset by growth in Latin America of approximately $3 million. Net sales in these markets reflected the adverse impact of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Economic conditions in the Americas region, particularly in the department store channel, have negatively impacted our businesses. Ongoing challenges faced by certain of our department store customers in the United States may continue to affect our net sales for the short and medium term. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales in the Americas decreased 7%. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, net sales decreased 13%, or $395.4 million, to $2,611.3 million, primarily reflecting the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Net sales decreases of approximately $323 million were driven by the United Kingdom, our travel retail business, Spain, France and Italy. These performances reflected retailer destocking and tighter working capital management by certain key retailers. Net sales in our travel retail business also declined due to a significant slowdown in passenger traffic and the impact of weaker currencies in certain key markets. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher net sales of approximately $11 million in the Middle East and Israel. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales in Europe, the Middle East & Africa decreased 4%. Net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 9%, or $106.8 million, to $1,299.4 million, reflecting higher net sales of approximately $109 million in China, Japan and Hong Kong. Net sales growth in China and Hong Kong benefited from the launches of new skin care products while Japans increase was generated from the strengthening of the Japanese yen. Partially offsetting these increases were lower net sales of approximately $13 million in Australia, New Zealand and Korea, reflecting the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against their respective local currencies. Despite the overall net sales increase in this region, growth has been tempered by a softer retail environment. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 14%. We believe the unfavorable global economic conditions will continue to adversely impact our financial performance. We cannot predict with certainty the magnitude or duration of the impact or how it will vary across each of our geographic regions. We strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in regional sales growth. 27 Table of Contents COST OF SALES Cost of sales as a percentage of total net sales increased to 25.7% as compared with 25.2% in the prior year. This change reflected an increase in obsolescence charges of approximately 40 basis points, excess overhead costs that were not recovered due to lower production levels of approximately 30 basis points and the negative effect of exchange rates of approximately 20 basis points. The increase in cost of sales margin also reflected the fiscal 2009 impact of charges associated with restructuring activities and an increase in the level and timing of promotional activities of approximately 10 basis points, each. Partially offsetting these increases were favorable changes in the mix of our business and from other manufacturing variances of approximately 50 basis points and 10 basis points, respectively. Since certain promotional activities are a component of sales or cost of sales and the timing and level of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of sales percentage. In addition, future cost of sales mix may be impacted by the inclusion of new brands or channels of distribution which have margin and product cost structures different from those of our current mix of business. OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses increased to 68.6% of net sales as compared with 64.5% of net sales in the prior year. In light of the current economic conditions, we continued to apply various cost containment measures to maintain expenses in line with our business needs. While the implementation of these initiatives helped reduce total operating expenses as compared with the prior year, the dramatic decline in net sales during fiscal 2009 was the principal factor that negatively impacted our operating expense margin. In addition to the decline in net sales, operating expense margin increased by approximately 110 basis points due to charges associated with restructuring activities, as previously discussed. During fiscal 2009, we evaluated our goodwill, intangible assets and other long lived assets based upon certain triggering events as well as our annual impairment test of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. Inclusive of the impairment charges incurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we recorded impairment charges of approximately $14 million related to goodwill, approximately $23 million related to trademarks with indefinite lives, approximately $17 million related to other amortizable intangible assets and approximately $9 million related to property, plant and equipment for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The principal factors that contributed to these impairment charges were lower than expected operating cash flow performance relative to the reporting unit and or affected assets being tested and the impact of the current economic environment on their projected future results of operations. Collectively, these charges resulted in an increase to our operating expense margin of approximately 90 basis points. For further detailed discussion, refer to Note 4 and Note 5 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Despite a reduction in actual selling, advertising, merchandising and sampling spending, operating expense margin increased by approximately 60 basis points driven by the decline in consumer demand in the current economic environment. Changes in advertising, merchandising and sampling spending result from the type, timing and level of activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets being emphasized. Other factors that contributed to the increase in operating expense margin were higher costs of global information technology systems and infrastructure of approximately 50 basis points, net losses from foreign exchange transactions of approximately 40 basis points, and charges resulting from the degradation of the businesses of certain of our retail customers of approximately 20 basis points. OPERATING RESULTS Operating income decreased 48%, or $392.3 million, to $418.4 million. Operating margin decreased to 5.7% of net sales as compared with 10.3% in the prior year, reflecting our lower gross margin and the increase in our operating expense margin as previously discussed. The following discussions of Operating Results by Product Categories and Geographic Regions exclude the impact of total charges associated with restructuring activities of $91.7 million, or 1.3% of net sales. We believe the following analysis of operating results better reflects the manner in which we conduct and view our business. Product Categories Fragrance operating results decreased over 100%, or $97.0 million, to an operating loss of $60.8 million primarily reflecting lower net sales of designer fragrance products and certain fragrances from our heritage brands as well as a charge for intangible asset impairment, which were partially offset by a reduction in selling, advertising, merchandising and sampling spending. Hair care operating income decreased 90%, or $10.4 million, to $1.1 million primarily reflecting lower net sales and a charge for intangible asset impairment. Skin care operating income decreased 27%, or $111.5 million, to $294.1 million and makeup operating income decreased 22%, or $79.6 million, to $279.8 million. The reduced operating results for the skin care and makeup categories primarily reflected the decline in net sales and charges for goodwill, intangible asset and other long lived asset impairments, as well as the majority of the impact of the excess overhead charge, loss from foreign exchange transactions and certain other operating expenses as described above. 28 Table of Contents Geographic Regions Operating income in the Americas decreased 50%, or $113.1 million, to $115.2 million. This decline reflected charges for goodwill, intangible asset and other long lived asset impairments, the majority of the impact of the excess overhead charge and the charge related to the degradation of a certain retailer of approximately $66 million, combined. Also contributing to the decline were lower sales experienced by the majority of our businesses in the region due to current economic conditions, partially offset by cost containment and contingency plan efforts. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income decreased 47%, or $203.4 million, to $229.7 million. This decrease primarily reflected lower results of approximately $156 million in our travel retail business, Spain, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and Italy, of which approximately $34 million related to charges for goodwill and intangible asset impairments and the degradation of certain retailers. In Asia/Pacific, operating income increased 10%, or $15.5 million, to $165.2 million. Most of our affiliates in this region experienced an increase despite a softer retail environment in certain countries. Approximately $20 million of this increase was generated in Hong Kong, China, Korea and Japan. Partially offsetting these improvements were lower results in Australia, Singapore and New Zealand of approximately $5 million, combined. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Net interest expense was $75.7 million as compared with $66.8 million in the prior year. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average debt balances, which include an additional $300.0 million of senior notes issued in November 2008, partially offset by lower average interest rates on pre existing borrowings. In addition, interest income decreased primarily due to lower average investment rates. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The effective rate differs from statutory rates due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate will change from year to year based on recurring and non recurring factors including, but not limited to, the geographical mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation, state and local income taxes, tax audit settlements and the interaction of various global tax strategies. The effective rate for income taxes for the year ended June 30, 2009 was 33.8% as compared with 34.9% in the prior year. The decrease in the effective income tax rate of 110 basis points was primarily attributable to a favorable settlement with the Appeals Division of the IRS (560 basis points), partially offset by an increase in non deductible expenses and an increase in state and local income tax expense (450 basis points). NET EARNINGS Net earnings as compared with fiscal 2008 decreased 54%, or $255.4 million, to $218.4 million and diluted net earnings per common share declined 54% from $2.40 to $1.10. These results include the impact of total charges associated with restructuring activities of $61.7 million, after tax, or $.31 per diluted common share. Fiscal 2008 as Compared with Fiscal 2007 NET SALES Net sales increased 12%, or $873.3 million, to $7,910.8 million, reflecting net sales growth in all of our product categories within each geographic region. Skin care, makeup and fragrance net sales increases were led by Europe, the Middle East & Africa while most of the net sales increase in hair care was achieved in the Americas. The increase in net sales reflected our efforts to capitalize on growth opportunities internationally. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales increased 8%. 29 Table of Contents Product Categories Skin Care Net sales of skin care products increased 15%, or $395.8 million, to $2,996.8 million. This growth reflected the launches of Idealist Pore Minimizing Skin Refinisher, Cyber White EX and Hydra Bright Skin Tone Perfecting Moisturizers from Este Lauder. Also contributing to the growth were the recent launches of products in the Acne Solutions Clear Skin System, Redness Solutions and Even Better Skin Tone Corrector from Clinique as well as The Eye Concentrate and The Moisturizing Gel Cream from La Mer. Collectively, these new products resulted in incremental sales of approximately $215 million. Net sales increases from Re Nutriv and Resilience Lift Extreme Ultra Firming products from Este Lauder, products in Cliniques 3 Step Skin Care System and Repairwear line, and Tri Aktiline Instant Deep Wrinkle Filler from Good Skin totaled approximately $80 million. These improvements were partially offset by approximately $55 million of lower sales from certain other existing Idealist products and Perfectionist products from Este Lauder. Net sales of other new and existing products also significantly contributed to the growth. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, skin care net sales increased 10%. Makeup Makeup net sales increased 11%, or $287.7 million, to $3,000.4 million reflecting growth from our makeup artist brands of approximately $194 million. Also contributing to the growth were incremental sales from the launches of Este Lauder Signature Hydra Lustre Lipstick, Double Wear Zero Smudge Mascara and Eyeliner from Este Lauder, Supermoisture Makeup and Superbalm Moisturizing Gloss from Clinique, as well as higher sales of Double Wear Stay In Place Makeup from Este Lauder of approximately $97 million, combined. Partially offsetting these increases were lower sales of approximately $30 million of Pure Color Eyeshadow and High Gloss from Este Lauder and Colour Surge Lipstick from Clinique. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, makeup net sales increased 7%. Fragrance Net sales of fragrance products increased 9%, or $123.4 million, to $1,432.0 million. The launches of Sean John Unforgivable Woman, Dreaming Tommy Hilfiger, Este Lauder Pure White Linen Light Breeze, Este Lauder pleasures delight and DKNY Delicious Night collectively contributed approximately $95 million to the growth in the category. Higher sales of approximately $62 million of DKNY Be Delicious, Jo Malone and Tom Ford fragrances also contributed to the increase. Lower sales of approximately $53 million of Tommy Girl by Tommy Hilfiger, DKNY Red Delicious Women and DKNY Be Delicious Men partially offset the growth in this product category. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, fragrance net sales increased 5%. Hair Care Hair care net sales increased 13%, or $50.0 million, to $427.1 million, primarily due to the inclusion of the Ojon brand which was acquired at the end of July 2007, as well as growth from Aveda and Bumble and bumble. Aveda net sales increases benefited from the launches of Smooth Infusion and Aveda Men Pure Formance products, as well as the fiscal 2008 acquisition of an independent distributor. Bumble and bumble net sales benefited from new points of distribution and increases from its hotel amenities program, which concluded in the fiscal 2008 third quarter. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, hair care net sales increased 11%. Geographic Regions Net sales in the Americas increased 4%, or $150.6 million, to $3,711.5 million, primarily reflecting net sales growth in Canada and Latin America, as well as the addition of the Ojon brand, of approximately $98 million, combined. Additional net sales increases of approximately $65 million were attributable to our designer fragrances business and our makeup artist and hair care brands in the United States. Partially offsetting this growth was approximately $37 million related to weaknesses in certain of our heritage brands in the United States as a result of competitive pressures and challenges in the department store channel. We believe that economic uncertainty in the United States has affected our business, particularly in the department store channel. These challenges have been mitigated through sales in alternative channels, such as freestanding retail stores, Internet distribution, self select distribution and direct response television. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales in the Americas increased 3%. All countries in Europe, the Middle East & Africa experienced net sales growth, which contributed to the increase in net sales of 21%, or $513.3 million, to $3,006.7 million, although net sales growth rates slowed in certain key countries. This growth was led by our travel retail business and the United Kingdom, as well as in Russia, which benefited from our expansion in this market. The results in this region were inclusive of an exchange rate benefit due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar of approximately $206 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales in Europe, the Middle East & Africa increased 12%. 30 Table of Contents Net sales in Asia/Pacific increased 21%, or $209.4 million, to $1,192.6 million, reflecting growth from all countries in the region. This increase reflected higher net sales of approximately $172 million in China, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia and Korea. The results in this region were inclusive of an exchange rate benefit due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar of approximately $66 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Asia/Pacific net sales increased 15%. We strategically stagger our new product launches by geographic market, which may account for differences in regional sales growth. COST OF SALES Cost of sales as a percentage of total net sales was 25.2%, which is the same as in fiscal 2007. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales reflected a decrease in the level and timing of promotional activities of approximately 20 basis points and a positive effect of exchange rates of approximately 10 basis points. Offsetting these improvements was an unfavorable change in the mix of our business, an increase in obsolescence charges, and employee related charges designed to streamline certain business activities and achieve future cost savings of approximately 10 basis points, each. Despite the rise in energy and raw material prices in the current year, we were able to maintain our overall cost of goods margin through other efficiencies achieved from ongoing savings initiatives. Since certain promotional activities are a component of sales or cost of sales and the timing and level of promotions vary with our promotional calendar, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the cost of sales percentage. In addition, future cost of sales mix may be impacted by the inclusion of new brands which have margin and product cost structures different from those of our existing brands. OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses increased to 64.5% of net sales as compared with 64.1% of net sales in the fiscal 2007. The increase in operating expenses and operating expense margin reflected higher costs of global information technology systems and infrastructure of approximately 30 basis points. An additional 20 basis points resulted from an increase in valuation reserves reflecting the diminishing likelihood of realizing value from a promissory note and convertible preferred stock received in connection with the divestiture of Stila in fiscal 2006. We also recorded an increase in intangible asset amortization resulting from recent strategic acquisitions, as well as employee related charges designed to streamline certain business activities and achieve future cost savings, of approximately 10 basis points each. Operating expense margin in fiscal 2007 was adversely impacted by charges related to our pharmacy channel of approximately 40 basis points. Changes in advertising, merchandising and sampling spending result from the type, timing and level of activities related to product launches and rollouts, as well as the markets being emphasized. OPERATING RESULTS Operating income increased 8%, or $60.8 million, to $810.7 million as compared with fiscal 2007. Operating margin declined to 10.3% of net sales as compared with 10.7% in fiscal 2007, reflecting our constant cost of sales margin and the increase in our operating expense margin, as previously discussed. Product Categories Fragrance operating income increased 29%, or $8.1 million, to $36.2 million, reflecting profitable international growth, partially offset by increased spending in support of designer fragrance products initiatives. Skin care operating income increased 19%, or $64.1 million, to $405.6 million, primarily reflecting improved international results from certain of our heritage brands and net sales growth from La Mer products and Tri AktilineTM Instant Deep Wrinkle Filler from Good SkinTM. In addition, the fiscal 2007 results in this category reflected organizational costs of approximately $30 million, primarily related to our pharmacy channel in Europe. Makeup operating income increased 6%, or $20.1 million, to $359.4 million, primarily reflecting improved results internationally. These improvements were partially offset by lower results in the United States from certain of our heritage brands, the charge on the impairment of Stila related financial instruments, and costs related to the establishment of new points of distribution for MAC. Hair care operating income declined 73%, or $31.0 million, to $11.5 million, primarily reflecting costs related to the acquisition and integration of Ojon to position the brand for future growth. The results in this category also reflected an increase in intangible asset amortization resulting from fiscal 2008 strategic acquisitions as well as costs related to the establishment of new points of distribution. 31 Table of Contents Geographic Regions Operating income in the Americas declined 32%, or $108.1 million, to $228.3 million, primarily reflecting a difficult retail environment in which our heritage brands faced challenges in the department store channel. We also experienced significant pressure on the profitability of our hair care business as discussed above. At the same time, we continued to invest in our global information technology systems and infrastructure. In addition, we established new points of distribution for existing brands, incurred costs to streamline certain business activities to generate future efficiencies and incurred a charge on the impairment of Stila related financial instruments, as discussed above. In Europe, the Middle East & Africa, operating income increased 35%, or $111.7 million, to $433.1 million primarily due to higher results of approximately $71 million in our travel retail business, the United Kingdom, Italy, the Balkans and Spain. Partially offsetting these increases were lower results in Russia and India of approximately $6 million, reflecting spending to support our expansion in these markets. The overall operating results in this region were adversely impacted in fiscal 2007 by the pharmacy channel charges discussed above. In Asia/Pacific, operating income increased 61%, or $56.5 million, to $149.7 million. All of our affiliates in this region experienced an increase in operating income, primarily resulting from net sales growth led by Japan, Hong Kong, China, Australia and Korea, which contributed approximately $43 million, collectively. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Net interest expense was $66.8 million as compared with $38.9 million in fiscal 2007. This change primarily resulted from higher average debt balances, including an additional $600.0 million of senior notes issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, partially offset by lower average interest rates. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES The provision for income taxes represents Federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. The effective rate differs from statutory rates due to the effect of state and local taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate will change from year to year based on non recurring and recurring factors including, but not limited to, the geographical mix of earnings, enacted tax legislation, state and local taxes, tax audit settlements and the interaction of various global tax strategies. The effective rate for income taxes for the year ended June 30, 2008 was 34.9% as compared with 35.9% in fiscal 2007. The decrease in the effective income tax rate of 100 basis points resulted primarily from a decrease in state and local income tax expense (240 basis points) partially offset by an increase in the tax effect of our foreign operations (140 basis points). NET EARNINGS Net earnings as compared with fiscal 2007 increased 5%, or $24.6 million, to $473.8 million and diluted net earnings per common share improved 11% from $2.16 to $2.40. FINANCIAL CONDITION LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Our principal sources of funds historically have been cash flows from operations, borrowings pursuant to our commercial paper program, borrowings from the issuance of long term debt and committed and uncommitted credit lines provided by banks and other lenders in the United States and abroad. At June 30, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $864.5 million compared with $401.7 million at June 30, 2008. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained at a number of financial institutions. As of June 30, 2009, approximately 10% of the total balance is insured by governmental agencies. To mitigate the risk of uninsured balances, we select financial institutions based on their credit ratings and financial strength and perform ongoing evaluations of these institutions to limit our concentration risk exposure. Our business is seasonal in nature and, accordingly, our working capital needs vary. From time to time, we may enter into investing and financing transactions that require additional funding. To the extent that these needs exceed cash from operations, we could, subject to market conditions, issue commercial paper, issue long term debt securities or borrow under our revolving credit facilities. During fiscal 2009, we have been able to issue commercial paper in amounts and with terms that we deem acceptable. We do not anticipate protracted difficulties in securing this form of working capital financing. However, in order to maintain sufficient cash reserves over a longer period of time, in light of the current macroeconomic conditions, and the real or perceived lack of available credit, we issued $300.0 million of 7.75% Senior Notes due November 1, 2013 during the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The net proceeds were used to repay then outstanding commercial paper balances upon their maturity. 32 Table of Contents Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that cash on hand, cash generated from operations, available credit lines and access to credit markets will be adequate to support currently planned business operations, information systems enhancements, capital expenditures, potential stock repurchases, commitments and other contractual obligations on both a near term and long term basis. The effects of inflation have not been significant to our overall operating results in recent years. Generally, we have been able to introduce new products at higher selling prices or increase selling prices sufficiently to offset cost increases, which have been moderate. Debt At June 30, 2009, our outstanding borrowings were as follows: Long term Debt Short term Debt Total Debt (In millions) 6.00% Senior Notes, due May 15, 2037 (2037 Senior Notes) (1) $ 296.3 $ $ 296.3 5.75% Senior Notes, due October 15, 2033 (2033 Senior Notes) (2) 197.5 197.5 5.55% Senior Notes, due May 15, 2017 (2017 Senior Notes) (3) 324.1 324.1 7.75% Senior Notes, due November 1, 2013 (2013 Senior Notes) (4) 299.8 299.8 6.00% Senior Notes, due January 15, 2012 (2012 Senior Notes) (5) 244.2 244.2 $13.5 million promissory note due August 31, 2012 (6) 15.2 15.2 $7.0 million promissory note due July 31, 2009 (7) 7.7 7.7 Turkish lira overdraft facility 12.5 12.5 Other borrowings 10.5 13.6 24.1 $ 1,387.6 $ 33.8 $ 1,421.4 (1) Consists of $300.0 million principal and unamortized debt discount of $3.7 million. (2) Consists of $200.0 million principal and unamortized debt discount of $2.5 million. (3) Consists of $300.0 million principal, unamortized debt discount of $0.4 million and a $24.5 million adjustment to reflect the fair value of outstanding interest rate swaps. (4) Consists of $300.0 million principal and unamortized debt discount of $0.2 million. (5) Consists of $250.0 million principal, unamortized debt discount of $0.3 million and a $5.5 million adjustment to reflect the remaining termination value of an interest rate swap that is being amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt. (6) Consists of $13.5 million face value and unamortized premium of $1.7 million. (7) Consists of $7.0 million face value and capitalized interest of $0.7 million. We have a $750.0 million commercial paper program under which we may issue commercial paper in the United States. Our commercial paper is currently rated A 1 by Standard & Poors and P 1 by Moodys. Our long term credit ratings are A with a negative outlook by Standard & Poors and A2 with a negative outlook by Moodys. At June 30, 2009, there was no commercial paper outstanding. We also have $201.4 million in additional uncommitted credit facilities, of which $16.3 million was used as of June 30, 2009. We have an undrawn $750.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on April 26, 2012. This facility may be used primarily to provide credit support for our commercial paper program, to repurchase shares of our common stock and for general corporate purposes. Up to the equivalent of $250 million of the credit facility is available for multi currency loans. The interest rate on borrowings under the credit facility is based on LIBOR or on the higher of prime, which is the rate of interest publicly announced by the administrative agent, or % plus the Federal funds rate. We incurred costs of approximately $0.3 million to establish the facility which will be amortized over the term of the facility. The credit facility has an annual fee of $0.4 million, payable quarterly, based on our current credit ratings. This facility also contains a cross default provision whereby a failure to pay other material financial obligations in excess of $50.0 million (after grace periods and absent a waiver from the lenders) would result in an event of default and the acceleration of the maturity of any outstanding debt under this facility. As of June 30, 2009, we were in compliance with all related financial and other restrictive covenants, including limitations on indebtedness and liens, and expect continued compliance. The financial covenant of this facility requires an interest expense coverage ratio of greater than 3:1 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. The interest expense coverage ratio is defined in the credit agreement as the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA (which does not represent a measure of our operating results as defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles) to Consolidated Interest Expense and is calculated as stipulated in the agreement as follows: 33 Table of Contents Twelve Months Ended June 30, 2009 (1) ($ in millions) Consolidated EBITDA: Net earnings $ 218.4 Add: Provision for income taxes 115.9 Interest expense, net 75.7 Depreciation and amortization (2) 251.7 Extraordinary non cash charges (3) 75.3 Less: Extraordinary non cash gains $ 737.0 Consolidated Interest Expense: Interest expense, net $ 75.7 Interest expense coverage ratio 10 to 1 (1) In accordance with the credit agreement, this period represents the four most recent quarters. (2) Excludes amortization of debt discount, and derivative and debt issuance costs as they are already included in Interest expense, net. (3) Includes goodwill, intangible asset and other long lived asset impairments and non cash charges associated with restructuring activities. In November 2008, we issued and sold $300.0 million of 7.75% Senior Notes due November 1, 2013 (7.75% Senior Notes due 2013) in a public offering. The 7.75% Senior Notes due 2013 were priced at 99.932% with a yield of 7.767%. Interest payments are required to be made semi annually on May 1 and November 1, commencing May 1, 2009. The net proceeds of this offering were used to repay then outstanding commercial paper balances upon their maturity. The purchase price related to the July 2007 acquisition of Ojon Corporation included (i) a promissory note due July 31, 2009 with a notional value of $7.0 million and capitalized interest of $0.7 million (present value of $7.7 million at June 30, 2009), bearing interest at 10.00% due at maturity and (ii) a promissory note due August 31, 2012 with a notional amount of $13.5 million and unamortized premium of $1.7 million (present value of $15.2 million at June 30, 2009), bearing interest at 10.00% payable annually on July 31. These notes were recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at present value using effective rates of 5.11% and 5.42%, respectively. The note due July 31, 2009, and the related interest thereon, was paid subsequent to year end upon maturity. We have a fixed rate promissory note agreement with a financial institution pursuant to which we may borrow up to $150.0 million in the form of loan participation notes through one of our subsidiaries in Europe. The interest rate on borrowings under this agreement is at an all in fixed rate determined by the lender and agreed to by us at the date of each borrowing. At June 30, 2009, no borrowings were outstanding under this agreement. Debt issuance costs incurred related to this agreement were de minimis. We have an overdraft borrowing agreement with a financial institution pursuant to which our subsidiary in Turkey may be credited to satisfy outstanding negative daily balances arising from its business operations. The total balance outstanding at any time shall not exceed 30.0 million Turkish lira ($19.6 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009). The interest rate applicable to each such credit shall be up to a maximum of 175 basis points per annum above the spot rate charged by the lender or the lenders floating call rate agreed to by us at each borrowing. There were no debt issuance costs incurred related to this agreement. The outstanding balance at June 30, 2009 ($12.5 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009) is classified as short term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. Subsequent to year end, the borrowing authorization under this facility was increased to 40.0 million Turkish lira ($26.1 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009). Our 3.0 billion Japanese yen revolving credit facility expired on March 24, 2009. This facility was replaced with a 1.5 billion Japanese yen ($15.7 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009) revolving credit facility that expires on March 31, 2010 and a 1.5 billion Japanese yen ($15.7 million at the exchange rate at June 30, 2009) revolving credit facility that expires on March 31, 2012. The interest rates on borrowings under these credit facilities are based on TIBOR (Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate) plus .45% and .75%, respectively and the facility fees incurred on undrawn balances are 15 basis points and 25 basis points, respectively. At June 30, 2009, no borrowings were outstanding under these facilities. Total debt as a percent of total capitalization increased to 46% at June 30, 2009 from 42% at June 30, 2008, primarily as a result of the issuance of the 7.75% Senior Notes due 2013, partially offset by the repayment of outstanding commercial paper balances. Based on our current plans, we do not expect this change to have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or liquidity on both a near term and long term basis. 34 Table of Contents Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents have increased significantly as compared with the prior year. In light of economic conditions during fiscal 2009, we took a defensive approach to preserve our liquidity. We issued long term bonds and reduced share repurchases. Net cash provided by operating activities was $696.0 million, $690.1 million and $661.6 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in operating cash flows in fiscal 2009 as compared with fiscal 2008 primarily reflected a decrease in inventory, due in part to ongoing planned reductions in stock keeping units, as well as lower accounts receivable as a result of lower sales and an improvement in days sales outstanding. These activities were partially offset by lower net earnings and an increase in income tax receivables as compared with the prior year, as well as a reduction in cash provided by certain working capital components, including payments for accounts payable and other liabilities. The increase in operating cash flows from fiscal 2008 as compared with fiscal 2007 primarily reflected a higher level of cash generated from net earnings before non cash items such as depreciation, amortization and stock based compensation. Approximately $91 million of the change in deferred income taxes was offset by a correlative change in noncurrent accrued income taxes reflecting the balance sheet presentation of unrecognized tax benefits. These changes were partially offset by the timing and level of payments on trade payables in North America and higher accounts receivable levels, primarily reflecting significant sales growth from our international operations, which carry longer customer payment terms. Net cash used for investing activities was $339.5 million, $478.5 million and $373.8 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. The decrease during fiscal 2009 primarily reflected lower capital expenditure activity in the current year and the prior year acquisition of Ojon Corporation, partially offset by the current year acquisitions of AGI and two Aveda distributors. The increase in cash used for investing activities during fiscal 2008 as compared with fiscal 2007 primarily reflected cash payments related to the acquisition of Ojon Corporation and the exclusive rights to sell and distribute Ojon products worldwide, and to a lesser extent, the acquisition of an Aveda distributor. Capital expenditures also increased from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008 reflecting incremental spending for counters and the higher costs of technology related to our continuing company wide initiative to upgrade our information systems. Cash provided by financing activities was $125.8 million in fiscal 2009 and cash used for financing activities was $78.1 million and $411.6 million in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. The fiscal 2009 increase in cash provided by financing activities primarily reflected the issuance of the $300.0 million Senior Notes due 2013 and a decrease in treasury stock purchases, partially offset by repayments of outstanding commercial paper. The fiscal 2008 increase in cash used for financing activities primarily reflected higher treasury stock repurchases in fiscal 2007, which were partially funded by the issuance of long term debt. Also contributing to the change in net cash used for financing activities was an increase in outstanding commercial paper, partially offset by lower cash inflows from stock option exercises. Dividends On November 6, 2008, the Board of Directors declared an annual dividend of $.55 per share on our Class A and Class B Common Stock, of which an aggregate of $108.4 million was paid on December 17, 2008 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 1, 2008. The annual common stock dividend declared during fiscal 2008 was $.55 per share, of which an aggregate of $106.6 million was paid on December 27, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 7, 2007. Pension Plan Funding Several factors influence the annual funding requirements for our pension plans. For the U.S. Qualified Plan, our funding policy consists of annual contributions at a rate that provides for future plan benefits and maintains appropriate funded percentages. Such contribution is not less than the minimum required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), and subsequent pension legislation, and is not more than the maximum amount deductible for income tax purposes. For each international plan, our funding policies are determined by local laws and regulations. In addition, amounts necessary to fund future obligations under these plans could vary depending on estimated assumptions (as detailed in Critical Accounting Polices and Estimates). The effect of our pension plan funding on future operating results will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, the number of participants electing to take lump sum distributions, investment performance and funding decisions. The unprecedented economic downturn during fiscal 2009 created a difficult investment environment. For the U.S. Qualified Plan, we maintain an investment strategy of matching the duration of the plan assets with the duration of the underlying plan liabilities. This strategy helped mitigate the negative effects of the downturn and assisted in maintaining a funded ratio of more than 100% as of June 30, 2009. For fiscal 2009 and 2008, there was no minimum contribution to the U.S. Qualified Plan required by ERISA. We made discretionary contributions totaling $17.0 million and $25.0 million to the U.S. Qualified Plan during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. We do not currently expect to make cash contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan during fiscal 2010. However, as we continue to monitor the performance of our plan assets, we may decide to make discretionary contributions. 35 Table of Contents For fiscal 2009 and 2008, we made benefit payments under our non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan of $8.1 million and $7.7 million, respectively. We expect to make benefit payments under this plan during fiscal 2010 of approximately $8 million. For fiscal 2009 and 2008, we made cash contributions to our international defined benefit pension plans of $41.8 million and $35.3 million, respectively. We expect to make contributions under these plans during fiscal 2010 of approximately $32 million. Commitments and Contingencies Certain of our business acquisition agreements include earn out provisions. These provisions generally require that we pay to the seller or sellers of the business additional amounts based on the performance of the acquired business. Since the size of each payment depends upon performance of the acquired business, we do not expect that such payments will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial condition. For additional contingencies, refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed and determinable as of June 30, 2009: Payments Due in Fiscal Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter (In millions) Debt service (1) $ 2,402.7 $ 110.9 $ 83.9 $ 327.9 $ 74.5 $ 347.7 $ 1,457.8 Operating lease commitments (2) 1,274.2 202.0 182.1 154.8 135.7 122.3 477.3 Unconditional purchase obligations (3) 1,659.9 831.9 234.4 173.1 162.1 56.0 202.4 Gross unrecognized tax benefits and interest current (4) 78.5 78.5 Total contractual obligations $ 5,415.3 $ 1,223.3 $ 500.4 $ 655.8 $ 372.3 $ 526.0 $ 2,137.5 (1) Includes long term and short term debt and the related projected interest costs, and to a lesser extent, capital lease commitments. Interest costs on long term and short term debt are projected to be $76.5 million in fiscal 2010, $75.6 million in each of fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, $60.7 million in fiscal 2013, $47.6 million in fiscal 2014 and $657.6 million thereafter. Projected interest costs on variable rate instruments were calculated using market rates at June 30, 2009. Refer to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) Minimum operating lease commitments only include base rent. Certain leases provide for contingent rents that are not measurable at inception and primarily include rents based on a percentage of sales in excess of stipulated levels, as well as common area maintenance. These amounts are excluded from minimum operating lease commitments and are included in the determination of total rent expense when it is probable that the expense has been incurred and the amount is reasonably measurable. (3) Unconditional purchase obligations primarily include inventory commitments, estimated future earn out payments, estimated royalty payments pursuant to license agreements, advertising commitments, capital improvement commitments, planned funding of pension and other post retirement benefit obligations, commitments pursuant to executive compensation arrangements and obligations related to our cost savings initiatives. Future earn out payments and future royalty and advertising commitments were estimated based on planned future sales for the term that was in effect at June 30, 2009, without consideration for potential renewal periods. (4) Refer to Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding unrecognized tax benefits. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we made a cash payment of $35.0 million to the U.S. Treasury as an advance deposit, which is not reflected as a reduction to the $78.5 million. As of June 30, 2009, the noncurrent portion of our unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued interest and penalties was $248.5 million. At this time, the settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued interest and penalties, cannot be determined and therefore was not included. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities We address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We primarily enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate derivatives to manage the effects of interest rate movements on our aggregate liability portfolio. We also enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to mitigate the change in fair value of specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Costs associated with entering into these derivative financial instruments have not been material to our consolidated financial results. 36 Table of Contents For each derivative contract entered into where we look to obtain special hedge accounting treatment, we formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, how the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the hedged risk will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively, and a description of the method of measuring ineffectiveness. This process includes linking all derivatives to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. We also formally assess, both at the hedges inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective, or that it has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, we will be required to discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that derivative prospectively. Foreign Exchange Risk Management We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge anticipated transactions, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies, for periods consistent with our identified exposures. The purpose of the hedging activities is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on costs and on the cash flows that we receive from foreign subsidiaries. The majority of foreign currency forward contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. We also enter into foreign currency option contracts to hedge anticipated transactions where there is a high probability that anticipated exposures will materialize. The foreign currency forward contracts entered into to hedge anticipated transactions have been designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges and have varying maturities through the end of June 2010. Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency forward contracts is based on a hypothetical derivative methodology and excludes the portion of fair value attributable to the spot forward difference which is recorded in current period earnings. Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency option contracts is based on a dollar offset methodology. The ineffective portion of both foreign currency forward and option contracts is recorded in current period earnings. For hedge contracts that are no longer deemed highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued and gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to earnings when the underlying forecasted transaction occurs. If it is probable that the forecasted transaction will no longer occur, then any gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to current period earnings. As of June 30, 2009, these foreign currency cash flow hedges were highly effective, in all material respects. At June 30, 2009, we had foreign currency forward contracts in the amount of $1,260.8 million. The foreign currencies included in foreign currency forward contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the British pound ($239.1 million), Euro ($212.5 million), Swiss franc ($206.8 million), Canadian dollar ($168.0 million), Hong Kong dollar ($79.4 million), Japanese yen ($76.0 million) and Australian dollar ($69.6 million). Interest Rate Risk Management We enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage the exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our funded indebtedness and anticipated issuance of debt for periods consistent with the identified exposures. We have interest rate swap agreements, with a notional amount totaling $250.0 million, to effectively convert the fixed rate interest on our 2017 Senior Notes to variable interest rates based on six month LIBOR. These interest rate swap agreements are designated as fair value hedges of the related long term debt and meet the accounting criteria that permit changes in the fair values of the interest rate swap agreements to exactly offset changes in the fair value of the underlying long term debt. As of June 30, 2009, these fair value hedges were highly effective in all material respects. Credit Risk As a matter of policy, we only enter into derivative contracts with counterparties that have at least an A (or equivalent) credit rating. The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions. Exposure to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by any of the counterparties is limited to the gross fair value of contracts in asset positions, which totaled $41.2 million at June 30, 2009. To manage this risk, we have established strict counterparty credit guidelines that are continually monitored and reported to management. Accordingly, management believes risk of loss under these hedging contracts is remote. Certain of our derivative financial instruments contain credit risk related contingent features. As of June 30, 2009, we were in compliance with such features and there were no derivative financial instruments with credit risk related contingent features that were in a net liability position. 37 Table of Contents Market Risk We use a value at risk model to assess the market risk of our derivative financial instruments. Value at risk represents the potential losses for an instrument or portfolio from adverse changes in market factors for a specified time period and confidence level. We estimate value at risk across all of our derivative financial instruments using a model with historical volatilities and correlations calculated over the past 250 day period. The high, low and average measured value at risk for the twelve months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 related to our foreign exchange and interest rate contracts are as follows: June 30, 2009 June 30, 2008 (In millions) High Low Average High Low Average Foreign exchange contracts $ 28.4 $ 14.2 $ 21.6 $ 18.8 $ 5.3 $ 11.3 Interest rate contracts 34.3 23.0 29.5 28.8 12.6 20.0 The change in the value at risk measures from the prior year related to our foreign exchange contracts reflected an increase in foreign exchange volatilities and a different portfolio mix. The change in the value at risk measures from the prior year related to our interest rate contracts reflected higher interest rate volatilities. The model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95 percent confidence level. We used a statistical simulation model that valued our derivative financial instruments against one thousand randomly generated market price paths. Our calculated value at risk exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on our portfolio of derivative financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may or may not occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures, and the timing thereof, and changes in our portfolio of derivative financial instruments during the year. We believe, however, that any such loss incurred would be offset by the effects of market rate movements on the respective underlying transactions for which the derivative financial instrument was intended. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not maintain any off balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect upon our financial condition or results of operations. RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In May 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 165, Subsequent Events (SFAS No. 165). SFAS No. 165 requires the disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements and whether that date represents the date the financial statements were issued or were available to be issued. This standard also provides clarification about circumstances under which an entity should recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements and the disclosures that an entity should make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. This standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning with our fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS No. 161 requires companies to provide qualitative disclosures about their objectives and strategies for using derivative instruments, quantitative disclosures of the fair values of, and gains and losses on, these derivative instruments in a tabular format, as well as more information about liquidity by requiring disclosure of a derivative contracts credit risk related contingent features. SFAS No. 161 also requires cross referencing within footnotes to enable financial statement users to locate important information about derivative instruments. We adopted this disclosure only standard beginning in our fiscal 2009 third quarter. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), to clarify the definition of fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value and expand the disclosures on fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). SFAS No. 157 also stipulates that, as a market based measurement, fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, and establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between (a) market participant assumptions developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs) and (b) the reporting entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions developed based on the best information available in the circumstances (unobservable inputs). 38 Table of Contents In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 157 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13. This FSP amends SFAS No. 157 to exclude certain leasing transactions accounted for under previously existing accounting guidance. However, this scope exception does not apply to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, regardless of whether those assets and liabilities are related to leases. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 2, Effective Date for FASB Statement No. 157 (FSP No. FAS 157 2). This FSP permits the delayed application of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, as defined in this FSP, except for those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements at least annually, until the beginning of our fiscal 2010. As of July 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, with the exception of its application to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, which we will defer in accordance with FSP No. FAS 157 2 until the beginning of fiscal 2010. Nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities principally consist of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, long lived assets when assessing potential impairment, and liabilities associated with restructuring activities. We are currently evaluating the impact of the provisions for such nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on our consolidated financial statements. In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active (FSP No. FAS 157 3), which clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not active. The FSP is effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which financial statements have not been issued. Revisions resulting from a change in the valuation technique or its application should be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate following the guidance in SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections (SFAS No. 154). However, the disclosure provisions in SFAS No. 154 for a change in accounting estimate are not required for revisions resulting from a change in valuation technique or its application. We adopted SFAS No. 157 beginning in our fiscal 2009 first quarter. As part of this adoption, we evaluated the fair value measurements of our financial assets and liabilities and determined that these instruments are valued in active markets. As such, the guidance in this FSP did not impact our consolidated financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly (FSP No. FAS 157 4). This FSP provides additional guidance for estimating fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 157 when there has been a significant decrease in market activity for a financial asset. An entity is required to base its conclusion about whether a transaction was distressed on the weight of the evidence presented. This FSP also re affirms that the objective of fair value, when the market for an asset is not active, is the price that would be received to sell the asset in an orderly market (as opposed to a distressed or forced transaction). Additional enhanced disclosures are also required in accordance with this FSP. FSP No. FAS 157 4 must be applied prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements as our financial assets are currently valued in active markets. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS No. 159), to permit all entities to choose to elect, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value. An entity shall report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date, and recognize upfront costs and fees related to those items in earnings as incurred and not deferred. SFAS No. 159 became effective for us as of July 1, 2008. As we did not elect the fair value option for our financial instruments, the adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards CodificationTM and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (SFAS No. 168). SFAS No. 168 establishes the FASB Accounting Standards CodificationTM (the Codification) as the single source of authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative U.S. GAAP for SEC registrants. SFAS No. 168 and the Codification become effective for our September 30, 2009 interim consolidated financial statements. We do not expect SFAS No. 168 or the Codification to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (SFAS No. 167). SFAS No. 167 eliminates the exception to consolidate a qualifying special purpose entity, changes the approach to determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and requires companies to more frequently re assess whether they must consolidate variable interest entities. Under the new guidance, the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity is identified qualitatively as the enterprise that has both (a) the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance, and (b) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. SFAS No. 167 becomes effective for our fiscal 2011 year end and interim reporting periods thereafter. We do not expect SFAS No. 167 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 107 1 and APB 28 1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, principally to require publicly traded companies to provide disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim financial information. The adoption of this disclosure only guidance will not have an impact on our consolidated financial results and is effective beginning with our fiscal 2010 interim period ending September 30, 2009. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 141(R) 1, Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies, to require that assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies be recognized at fair value if fair value can be reasonably determined. If the fair value of such assets or liabilities cannot be reasonably determined, then they would generally be recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies and FASB Interpretation No. 14, Reasonable Estimation of the Amount of a Loss an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 5. This FSP also amends the subsequent accounting for assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination and certain other disclosure requirements. This FSP is effective for assets or liabilities arising from contingencies in business combinations that are consummated during our fiscal 2010. In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 132(R) 1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (FSP No. FAS 132(R) 1) to require employers to provide additional disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other post retirement plan. These disclosures should principally include information detailing investment policies and strategies, the major categories of plan assets, the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets and an understanding of significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. While earlier application of the provisions of this FSP is permitted, the disclosures required by this FSP shall be provided for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009 (or our fiscal 2010, the anticipated period of adoption). Upon initial application, the provisions of this FSP are not required for earlier periods that are presented for comparative purposes. In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 08 7, Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets (EITF No. 08 7). Defensive intangible assets are assets acquired in a business combination that the acquirer (a) does not intend to use or (b) intends to use in a way other than the assets highest and best use as determined by an evaluation of market participant assumptions. While defensive intangible assets are not being actively used, they are likely contributing to an increase in the value of other assets owned by the acquiring entity. EITF No. 08 7 will require defensive intangible assets to be accounted for as separate units of accounting at the time of acquisition and the useful life of such assets would be based on the period over which the assets will directly or indirectly affect the entitys cash flows. This Issue would be applied prospectively for defensive intangible assets acquired on or after the beginning of our fiscal 2010, in order to coincide with the effective date of SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). In November 2008, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on EITF Issue No. 08 6, Accounting for Equity Method Investment Considerations (EITF No. 08 6). EITF No. 08 6 addresses questions about the potential effect of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No. 160) on equity method accounting. The primary issues include how the initial carrying value of an equity method investment should be determined, how to account for any subsequent purchases and sales of additional ownership interests, and whether the investor must separately assess its underlying share of the investees indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The effective date of EITF No. 08 6 coincides with that of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 and is to be applied on a prospective basis beginning in our fiscal 2010. Early adoption is not permitted for entities that previously adopted an alternate accounting policy. In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (FSP No. FAS 142 3). This FSP amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142). This FSP also adds certain disclosures to those already prescribed in SFAS No. 142. FSP No. FAS 142 3 becomes effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning in our fiscal 2010. The guidance for determining useful lives must be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after the effective date. The disclosure requirements must be applied prospectively to all intangible assets recognized as of the effective date. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R). SFAS No. 141(R) replaces SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, however, it retains the fundamental requirements of the former Statement that the acquisition method of accounting (previously referred to as the purchase method) be used for all business combinations and for an acquirer to be identified for each business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) defines the acquirer as the entity that obtains control of one or more businesses in the business combination and establishes the acquisition date as the date that the acquirer achieves control. Among other requirements, SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their acquisition date fair values, with limited exceptions; acquisition related costs generally will be expensed as incurred. SFAS No. 141(R) requires certain financial statement disclosures to enable users to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) must be applied prospectively to business combinations that are consummated on or after July 1, 2009. 40 Table of Contents In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 to establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. Among other requirements, SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, which is sometimes referred to as minority interest, is to be reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 160 also requires consolidated net income to include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest and to disclose those amounts on the face of the consolidated statement of earnings. SFAS No. 160 must be applied prospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning in our fiscal 2010, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. In December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached on EITF Issue No. 07 1, Collaborative Arrangements, (EITF No. 07 1). This Issue addresses accounting for collaborative arrangement activities that are conducted without the creation of a separate legal entity for the arrangement. Revenues and costs incurred with third parties in connection with the collaborative arrangement should be presented gross or net by the collaborators pursuant to the guidance in EITF Issue No. 99 19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent, and other applicable accounting literature. Payments to or from collaborators should be presented in the income statement based on the nature of the arrangement, the nature of the companys business and whether the payments are within the scope of other accounting literature. Other detailed information related to the collaborative arrangement is also required to be disclosed. The requirements under this Issue must be applied to collaborative arrangements in existence at the beginning of our fiscal 2010 using a modified version of retrospective application. We are currently not a party to significant collaborative arrangement activities, as defined by EITF No. 07 1. FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION We and our representatives from time to time make written or oral forward looking statements, including statements contained in this and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in our reports to stockholders. The words and phrases will likely result, expect, believe, planned, may, should, could, anticipate, estimate, project, intend, forecast or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, without limitation, our expectations regarding sales, earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, product introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information systems initiatives, new methods of sale, our long term strategy, restructuring and other charges and future operations or operating results. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations, actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, without limitation: (1) increased competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than we do; (2) our ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating results may depend and to successfully address challenges in our business; (3) consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing a decrease in the number of stores that sell our products, an increase in the ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by our competitors or ownership of competitors by our customers that are retailers and our inability to collect receivables; (4) destocking and tighter working capital management by retailers; (5) the success, or changes in timing or scope, of new product launches and the success, or changes in the timing or the scope, of advertising, sampling and merchandising programs; (6) shifts in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of products and services we sell; (7) social, political and economic risks to our foreign or domestic manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States; (8) changes in the laws, regulations and policies (including the interpretations and enforcement thereof) that affect, or will affect, our business, including those relating to our products, changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result; (9) foreign currency fluctuations affecting our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and our operating and manufacturing costs outside of the United States; 41 Table of Contents (10) changes in global or local conditions, including those due to the volatility in the global credit and equity markets, natural or man made disasters, real or perceived epidemics, or energy costs, that could affect consumer purchasing, the willingness or ability of consumers to travel and or purchase our products while traveling, the financial strength of our customers, suppliers or other contract counterparties, our operations, the cost and availability of capital which we may need for new equipment, facilities or acquisitions, the returns that we are able to generate on our pension assets and the resulting impact on funding obligations, the cost and availability of raw materials and the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates; (11) shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from disruptions of operations at any of the facilities that manufacture nearly all of our supply of a particular type of product (i.e., focus factories) or at our distribution or inventory centers, including disruptions that may be caused by the implementation of SAP as part of our Strategic Modernization Initiative or by restructurings; (12) real estate rates and availability, which may affect our ability to increase or maintain the number of retail locations at which we sell our products and the costs associated with our other facilities; (13) changes in product mix to products which are less profitable; (14) our ability to acquire, develop or implement new information and distribution technologies and initiatives on a timely basis and within our cost estimates; (15) our ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as publicly announced restructuring and cost savings initiatives, and to integrate acquired businesses and realize value therefrom; (16) consequences attributable to the events that are currently taking place in the Middle East, including terrorist attacks, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation; (17) the timing and impact of acquisitions and divestitures, which depend on willing sellers and buyers, respectively; and (18) additional factors as described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. We assume no responsibility to update forward looking statements made herein or otherwise. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
