Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition at June 30, 2012 and our results of operations for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in those financial statements. These estimates and assumptions can be subjective and complex and, consequently, actual results could differ from those estimates. Our most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, inventory, pension and other post retirement benefit costs, goodwill, other intangible assets and long lived assets, income taxes and derivatives. Management of the Company has discussed the selection of significant accounting policies and the effect of estimates with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Revenue Recognition Revenues from product sales are recognized upon transfer of ownership, including passage of title to the customer and transfer of the risk of loss related to those goods. In the Americas region, sales are generally recognized at the time the product is shipped to the customer and in the Europe, the Middle East & Africa and Asia/Pacific regions, sales are generally recognized based upon the customers receipt. In certain circumstances, transfer of title takes place at the point of sale, for example, at our retail stores. Revenues are reported on a net sales basis, which is computed by deducting from gross sales the amount of actual product returns received, discounts, incentive arrangements with retailers and an amount established for anticipated product returns. Our practice is to accept product returns from retailers only if properly requested, authorized and approved. In accepting returns, we typically provide a credit to the retailer against accounts receivable from that retailer. As a percentage of gross sales, returns were 3.5% in fiscal 2012 and 2011 and 4.3% in fiscal 2010. The improvement from fiscal 2010 reflects efforts to work with our customers to improve their forecasting and product mix to better address their inventory requirements. Our sales return accrual is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net sales. This accrual is calculated based on a history of actual returns, estimated future returns and information provided by retailers regarding their inventory levels. Consideration of these factors results in an accrual for anticipated sales returns that reflects increases or decreases related to seasonal fluctuations. Experience has shown a relationship between retailer inventory levels and sales returns in the subsequent period, as well as a consistent pattern of returns due to the seasonal nature of our business. In addition, as necessary, specific accruals may be established for significant future known or anticipated events. The types of known or anticipated events that we have considered, and will continue to consider, include, but are not limited to, the financial condition of our customers, store closings by retailers, changes in the retail environment and our decision to continue to support new and existing products. In the ordinary course of business, we have established an allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions based upon the evaluation of accounts receivable aging, specific exposures and historical trends. Our allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions is a subjective critical estimate that has a direct impact on reported net earnings. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $31.1 million and $33.9 million as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $13.8 million, $9.9 million and $15.8 million for customer deductions and write offs in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and increased by $11.0 million, $9.5 million and $8.7 million for additional provisions in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Inventory We state our inventory at the lower of cost or fair market value, with cost being based on standard cost which approximates actual cost on the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We believe this method most closely matches the flow of our products from manufacture through sale. The reported net value of our inventory includes saleable products, promotional products, raw materials and componentry and work in process that will be sold or used in future periods. Inventory cost includes raw materials, direct labor and overhead, as well as inbound freight. Manufacturing overhead is allocated to the cost of inventory based on the normal production capacity. Unallocated overhead during periods of abnormally low production levels are recognized as cost of sales in the period in which they are incurred. We also record an inventory obsolescence reserve, which represents the difference between the cost of the inventory and its estimated realizable value, based on various product sales projections. This reserve is calculated using an estimated obsolescence percentage applied to the inventory based on age, historical trends and requirements to support forecasted sales. In addition, and as necessary, we may establish specific reserves for future known or anticipated events. 21 Table of Contents Pension and Other Post retirement Benefit Costs We offer the following benefits to some or all of our employees: a domestic trust based noncontributory qualified defined benefit pension plan (U.S. Qualified Plan) and an unfunded, non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan to provide benefits in excess of statutory limitations (collectively with the U.S. Qualified Plan, the Domestic Plans); a domestic contributory defined contribution plan; international pension plans, which vary by country, consisting of both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans; deferred compensation arrangements; and certain other post retirement benefit plans. The amounts needed to fund future payouts under these plans are subject to numerous assumptions and variables. Certain significant variables require us to make assumptions that are within our control such as an anticipated discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and future compensation levels. We evaluate these assumptions with our actuarial advisors and select assumptions that we believe reflect the economics underlying our pension and post retirement obligations. While we believe these assumptions are within accepted industry ranges, an increase or decrease in the assumptions or economic events outside our control could have a direct impact on reported net earnings. The discount rate for each plan used for determining future net periodic benefit cost is based on a review of highly rated long term bonds. For fiscal 2012, we used a discount rate for our Domestic Plans of 5.40% and varying rates on our international plans of between 1.25% and 8.25%. The discount rate for our Domestic Plans is based on a bond portfolio that includes only long term bonds with an Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency. We believe the timing and amount of cash flows related to the bonds included in this portfolio is expected to match the estimated defined benefit payment streams of our Domestic Plans. For fiscal 2012, we used an expected return on plan assets of 7.75% for our U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates of between 2.00% and 8.25% for our international plans. In determining the long term rate of return for a plan, we consider the historical rates of return, the nature of the plans investments and an expectation for the plans investment strategies. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 13 Pension, Deferred Compensation and Post retirement Benefit Plans for details regarding the nature of our pension and post retirement plan investments. The difference between actual and expected return on plan assets is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Those gains/losses that are subject to amortization over future periods will be recognized as a component of the net periodic benefit cost in such future periods. For fiscal 2012, our pension plans had actual return on assets of approximately $76 million as compared with expected return on assets of approximately $60 million, which resulted in a net deferred gain of approximately $16 million, substantially all of which is currently subject to be amortized over periods ranging from approximately 6 to 22 years. The actual return on plan assets was primarily related to the strong performance of the fixed income investments during the past fiscal year. A 25 basis point change in the discount rate or the expected rate of return on plan assets would have had the following effect on fiscal 2012 pension expense: (In millions) 25 Basis Point Increase 25 Basis Point Decrease Discount rate $ (3.4 ) $ 3.3 Expected return on assets $ (2.2 ) $ 2.2 Our post retirement plans are comprised of health care plans that could be impacted by health care cost trend rates, which may have a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates for fiscal 2012 would have had the following effects: (In millions) One Percentage Point Increase One Percentage Point Decrease Effect on total service and interest costs $ 1.2 $ (1.0 ) Effect on post retirement benefit obligations $ 13.9 $ (12.6 ) For fiscal 2013, we are using a discount rate for the Domestic Plans of 3.90% and varying rates for our international plans of between 1.00% and 7.00%. We are using an expected return on plan assets of 7.50% for the U.S. Qualified Plan and varying rates for our international pension plans of between 2.25% and 7.00%. The net change in these assumptions from those used in fiscal 2012 will result in an increase in pension expense of approximately $19 million in fiscal 2013. We will continue to monitor the market conditions relative to these assumptions and adjust them accordingly. Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long Lived Assets Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of purchased businesses over the fair value of their underlying net assets. Other indefinite lived intangible assets principally consist of trademarks. Goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized. 22 Table of Contents We assess goodwill and other indefinite lived intangibles at least annually for impairment as of the beginning of the fiscal fourth quarter, or more frequently if certain events or circumstances exist. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments. We identify our reporting units by assessing whether the components of our operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial information is available and management of each reporting unit regularly reviews the operating results of those components. We make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating assets and liabilities to determine carrying values for our reporting units. Impairment testing is performed in two steps: (i) we determine if an indication of impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value, and (ii) if there is an impairment, we measure the amount of impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets encompasses calculating a fair value of an indefinite lived intangible asset and comparing the fair value to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value an impairment charge is recorded. Testing goodwill for impairment requires us to estimate fair values of reporting units using significant estimates and assumptions. The assumptions made will impact the outcome and ultimate results of the testing. We use industry accepted valuation models and set criteria that are reviewed and approved by various levels of management and, in certain instances, we engage third party valuation specialists for advice. To determine fair value of the reporting unit, we generally use an equal weighting of the income and market approaches. In certain circumstances, equal weighting will not be applied if one of these methods may be less applicable (e.g., only the income approach would be used for reporting units with existing negative margins). We believe both approaches are equally relevant and the most reliable indications of fair value because the fair value of product or service companies is more dependent on the ability to generate earnings than on the value of the assets used in the production process. Under the income approach, we determine fair value using a discounted cash flow method, projecting future cash flows of each reporting unit, as well as a terminal value, and discounting such cash flows at a rate of return that reflects the relative risk of the cash flows. Under the market approach, we utilize information from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting units, which creates valuation multiples that are applied to the operating performance of the reporting unit being tested, to value the reporting unit. The key estimates and factors used in these two approaches include, but are not limited to, revenue growth rates and profit margins based on internal forecasts, terminal value, the weighted average cost of capital used to discount future cash flows and comparable market multiples. The fiscal 2012 compound annual growth rate of sales for the first five to eight years of our projections, as considered appropriate for the individual reporting units, ranged between 5% and 18% with the higher growth rates in those reporting units that start with the smallest base in fiscal 2012. The fiscal 2011 compound annual growth rate of sales for the first five to eight years of our projections ranged between 3% and 19% with the higher growth rates in those reporting units that start with the smallest base in fiscal 2011. For reporting units with positive earnings, growth in the corresponding earnings before interest and taxes ranged from 7% to 47% in fiscal 2012 as compared with 6% to 109% in fiscal 2011. The terminal growth rates were projected at 3% after five to eight years in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, which reflects our estimate of long term market and gross domestic product growth. The weighted average cost of capital used to discount future cash flows ranged from 8% to 16% in fiscal 2012 as compared with 7.5% to 16% in fiscal 2011. The range of market multiples used in our fiscal 2012 impairment testing was from 1.7 to 3.3 times trailing twelve month sales and 10.0 to 12.5 times trailing twelve month earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization. The range of market multiples used in our fiscal 2011 impairment testing was from 1.5 to 3 times trailing twelve month sales and between 11 to 12 times trailing twelve month earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization. Future changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the results of our reviews for impairment of goodwill. However, a decrease of 100 basis points in our terminal growth rate or an increase of 100 basis points in our weighted average cost of capital would still result in a fair value calculation exceeding our book value for each of our reporting units, except for the Darphin reporting unit, for which a decrease of 75 basis points in our terminal growth rate would still result in a fair value calculation exceeding its book value. Changes in the valuation assumptions from those used in the prior year primarily reflect the impact of the current economic environment on the reporting units and their projected future results of operations. To determine fair value of other indefinite lived intangible assets, we use an income approach, the relief from royalty method. This method assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to obtain the rights to use the comparable asset. Other indefinite lived intangible assets fair values require significant judgments in determining both the assets estimated cash flows as well as the appropriate discount and royalty rates applied to those cash flows to determine fair value. Changes in such estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results. The fiscal 2012 and 2011 terminal growth rate applied to future cash flows was 3% and the fiscal 2012 and 2011 discount rates ranged from 10% to 18%. The fiscal 2012 and 2011 royalty rates ranged from 0.5% to 12%. We review long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, a recoverability test is performed comparing projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment would be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value, which is determined by discounting future cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Income Taxes We account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. As of June 30, 2012, we have current net deferred tax assets of $247.8 million and non current net deferred tax assets of $103.1 million. The net deferred tax assets assume sufficient future earnings for their realization, as well as the continued application of currently anticipated tax rates. Included in net deferred tax assets is a valuation allowance of $73.2 million for deferred tax assets, where management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized in the relevant jurisdiction. Based on our assessments, no additional valuation allowance is required. If we determine that a deferred tax asset will not be realizable, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset will result in a reduction of net earnings at that time. We provide tax reserves for U.S. federal, state, local and foreign exposures relating to periods subject to audit. The development of reserves for these exposures requires judgments about tax issues, potential outcomes and timing, and is a subjective critical estimate. We assess our tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon managements evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting dates. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with a tax authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the consolidated financial statements. We classify applicable interest and penalties as a component of the provision for income taxes. Although the outcome relating to these exposures is uncertain, in managements opinion adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for estimable potential liabilities emanating from these exposures. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Derivatives We address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts and may enter into option contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate derivatives to manage the effects of interest rate movements on our aggregate liability portfolio. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts and may use option contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to mitigate the change in fair value of specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Hedge effectiveness is documented, assessed and monitored by employees who are qualified to make such assessments and monitor the instruments. Variables that are external to us such as social, political and economic risks may have an impact on our hedging program and the results thereof. Our derivative financial instruments are recorded as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair value. All derivatives outstanding as of June 30, 2012 are (i) designated as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge), (ii) designated as a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (foreign currency cash flow hedge), or (iii) not designated as a hedging instrument. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge that is highly effective are recorded in current period earnings, along with the loss or gain on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk (including losses or gains on unrecognized firm commitments). Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a foreign currency cash flow hedge of a foreign currency denominated forecasted transaction that is highly effective are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI). Gains and losses deferred in OCI are then recognized in current period earnings when earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows of the hedged foreign currency denominated forecasted transaction (e.g., when periodic settlements on a variable rate asset or liability are recorded in earnings). Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments are reported in current period earnings. For a discussion on the quantitative impact of market risks related to our derivative financial instruments, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk. Quantitative Analysis During the three year period ended June 30, 2012 there have not been material changes in the assumptions underlying these critical accounting policies, nor to the related significant estimates. The results of our business underlying these assumptions have not differed significantly from our expectations. While we believe that the estimates that we have made are proper and the related results of operations for the period are presented fairly in all material respects, other assumptions could reasonably be justified that would change the amount of reported net sales, cost of sales, operating expenses or our provision for income taxes as they relate to the provisions for anticipated sales returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory obsolescence reserve and income taxes. For fiscal 2012, had these estimates been changed simultaneously by 2.5% in either direction, our reported gross profit would have increased or decreased by approximately $4.8 million, operating expenses would have changed by approximately $0.8 million and the provision for income taxes would have remained unchanged. The collective impact of these changes on operating income, net earnings attributable to The Este Lauder Companies Inc., and net earnings attributable to The Este Lauder Companies Inc. per diluted common share would be an increase or decrease of approximately $5.6 million, $5.6 million and $.01, respectively. 24 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We manufacture, market and sell beauty products including those in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care categories which are distributed in over 150 countries and territories. The following table is a comparative summary of operating results from continuing operations for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 and reflects the basis of presentation described in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The effect of our pension plan funding on future operating results will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, the number of participants electing to take lump sum distributions, investment performance and funding decisions. For the U.S. Qualified Plan, we maintain an investment strategy of matching the duration of a substantial portion of the plan assets with the duration of the underlying plan liabilities. This strategy assisted in maintaining a funded ratio of more than 100% as of June 30, 2012. For fiscal 2012 and 2011, we met or exceeded all minimum contributions required by ERISA for the U.S. Qualified Plan. These cash contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan totaled $75.6 million and $35.6 million during fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. We made discretionary cash contributions to our post retirement medical plan in the United States of $9.4 million and $8.4 million during fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. As we continue to monitor the performance of our plan assets, we may decide to make discretionary cash contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan or our post retirement plan in the United States during fiscal 2013, but do not have plans to do so at this time. 39 Table of Contents For fiscal 2012 and 2011, we made benefit payments under our non qualified domestic noncontributory pension plan of $6.6 million and $8.8 million, respectively. We expect to make benefit payments under this plan during fiscal 2013 of approximately $10.8 million. For fiscal 2012 and 2011, we made cash contributions to our international defined benefit pension plans of $29.7 million and $34.1 million, respectively. We expect to make contributions under these plans during fiscal 2013 of approximately $24.7 million. Commitments and Contingencies Certain of our business acquisition agreements include earn out provisions. These provisions generally require that we pay to the seller or sellers of the business additional amounts based on the performance of the acquired business. Since the size of each payment depends upon performance of the acquired business, we do not expect that such payments will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or financial condition. For additional contingencies refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed and determinable as of June 30, 2012: Payments Due in Fiscal (In millions) Total 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter Debt service (1) $ 2,066.7 $ 286.2 $ 291.6 $ 46.6 $ 46.4 $ 346.3 $ 1,049.6 Operating lease commitments (2) 1,537.9 266.6 243.5 209.3 182.8 153.5 482.2 Unconditional purchase obligations (3) 2,178.6 1,130.0 213.1 197.5 185.0 114.5 338.5 Gross unrecognized tax benefits and interest current (4) 0.9 0.9 Total contractual obligations $ 5,784.1 $ 1,683.7 $ 748.2 $ 453.4 $ 414.2 $ 614.3 $ 1,870.3 (1) Includes long term and short term debt and the related projected interest costs, and to a lesser extent, capital lease commitments. Interest costs on long term and short term debt are projected to be $64.4 million in fiscal 2013, $55.1 million in fiscal 2014, $46.2 million in each of the years from fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2017 and $549.8 million thereafter. Projected interest costs on variable rate instruments were calculated using market rates at June 30, 2012. Including the 2022 Senior Notes and 2042 Senior Notes and redemption of the 2013 Senior Notes, debt service costs are projected to increase $247.2 million in fiscal 2013, decrease $223.9 million in fiscal 2014, increase $15.1 million in each of the years from fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2017, and increase $768.2 million thereafter. Refer to Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10 Debt. (2) Minimum operating lease commitments only include base rent. Certain leases provide for contingent rents that are not measurable at inception and primarily include rents based on a percentage of sales in excess of stipulated levels, as well as common area maintenance. These amounts are excluded from minimum operating lease commitments and are included in the determination of total rent expense when it is probable that the expense has been incurred and the amount is reasonably measurable. (3) Unconditional purchase obligations primarily include inventory commitments, estimated future earn out payments, estimated royalty payments pursuant to license agreements, advertising commitments, capital improvement commitments, planned funding of pension and other post retirement benefit obligations, commitments pursuant to executive compensation arrangements, obligations related to our cost savings initiatives and acquisitions. Future earn out payments and future royalty and advertising commitments were estimated based on planned future sales for the term that was in effect at June 30, 2012, without consideration for potential renewal periods. (4) Refer to Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 8 Income Taxes for information regarding unrecognized tax benefits. As of June 30, 2012, the noncurrent portion of our unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued interest and penalties was $106.2 million. At this time, the settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the unrecognized tax benefits, including related accrued interest and penalties, cannot be determined and therefore was not included. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities We address certain financial exposures through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts and may enter into option contracts to reduce the effects of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate derivatives to manage the effects of interest rate movements on our aggregate liability portfolio. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts and may use option contracts, not designated as hedging instruments, to mitigate the change in fair value of specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. We do not utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Costs associated with entering into these derivative financial instruments have not been material to our consolidated financial results. 40 Table of Contents For each derivative contract entered into where we look to obtain special hedge accounting treatment, we formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, how the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the hedged risk will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively, and a description of the method of measuring ineffectiveness. This process includes linking all derivatives to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific firm commitments or forecasted transactions. We also formally assess, both at the hedges inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective, or that it has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, we will be required to discontinue hedge accounting with respect to that derivative prospectively. Foreign Exchange Risk Management We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge anticipated transactions, as well as receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies, for periods consistent with our identified exposures. The purpose of the hedging activities is to minimize the effect of foreign exchange rate movements on costs and on the cash flows that we receive from foreign subsidiaries. The majority of foreign currency forward contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. We may also enter into foreign currency option contracts to hedge anticipated transactions. The foreign currency forward contracts entered into to hedge anticipated transactions have been designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges and have varying maturities through the end of March 2014. Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency forward contracts is based on a hypothetical derivative methodology and excludes the portion of fair value attributable to the spot forward difference which is recorded in current period earnings. The ineffective portion of foreign currency forward contracts is recorded in current period earnings. For hedge contracts that are no longer deemed highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued and gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to earnings when the underlying forecasted transaction occurs. If it is probable that the forecasted transaction will no longer occur, then any gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to current period earnings. As of June 30, 2012, these foreign currency cash flow hedges were highly effective in all material respects. At June 30, 2012, we had foreign currency forward contracts in the amount of $1,476.0 million. The foreign currencies included in foreign currency forward contracts (notional value stated in U.S. dollars) are principally the British pound ($376.7 million), Euro ($223.4 million), Canadian dollar ($184.0 million), Swiss franc ($129.9 million), Australian dollar ($106.5 million), Korean won ($75.1 million) and Thailand baht ($51.3 million). Credit Risk As a matter of policy, we only enter into derivative contracts with counterparties that have a long term credit rating of at least A or higher by at least two nationally recognized rating agencies. The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions. Exposure to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by any of the counterparties is limited to the gross fair value of contracts in asset positions, which totaled $17.7 million at June 30, 2012. To manage this risk, we have established counterparty credit guidelines that are continually monitored. Accordingly, management believes risk of loss under these hedging contracts is remote. Certain of our derivative financial instruments contain credit risk related contingent features. At June 30, 2012, we were in a net asset position for certain derivative contracts that contain such features with two counterparties. The fair value of those contracts as of June 30, 2012 was approximately $2.8 million. As of June 30, 2012, we were in compliance with such credit risk related contingent features. Market Risk We use a value at risk model to assess the market risk of our derivative financial instruments. Value at risk represents the potential losses for an instrument or portfolio from adverse changes in market factors for a specified time period and confidence level. We estimate value at risk across all of our derivative financial instruments using a model with historical volatilities and correlations calculated over the past 250 day period. The high, low and average measured value at risk during fiscal 2012 related to our foreign exchange contracts is as follows: Year Ended June 30, 2012 (In millions) High Low Average Foreign exchange contracts $ 47.1 $ 9.0 $ 24.7 The model estimates were made assuming normal market conditions and a 95 percent confidence level. We used a statistical simulation model that valued our derivative financial instruments against one thousand randomly generated market price paths. Our calculated value at risk exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses that would be recognized on our portfolio of derivative financial instruments assuming hypothetical movements in future market rates and is not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may or may not occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss or any expected loss that may occur, since actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated, based upon actual fluctuations in market rates, operating exposures, and the timing thereof, and changes in our portfolio of derivative financial instruments during the year. 41 Table of Contents We believe, however, that any such loss incurred would be offset by the effects of market rate movements on the respective underlying transactions for which the derivative financial instrument was intended. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not maintain any off balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities, other than operating leases, that would be expected to have a material current or future effect upon our financial condition or results of operations. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for discussion regarding the impact of accounting standards that were recently issued but not yet effective, on our consolidated financial statements. FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION We and our representatives from time to time make written or oral forward looking statements, including statements contained in this and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases and in our reports to stockholders. The words and phrases will likely result, expect, believe, planned, may, should, could, anticipate, estimate, project, intend, forecast or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, without limitation, our expectations regarding sales, earnings or other future financial performance and liquidity, product introductions, entry into new geographic regions, information systems initiatives, new methods of sale, our long term strategy, restructuring and other charges and resulting cost savings, and future operations or operating results. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business and operations, actual results may differ materially from our expectations. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, without limitation: (1) increased competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than we do; (2) our ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating results may depend and to successfully address challenges in our business; (3) consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing a decrease in the number of stores that sell our products, an increase in the ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by our competitors or ownership of competitors by our customers that are retailers and our inability to collect receivables; (4) destocking and tighter working capital management by retailers; (5) the success, or changes in timing or scope, of new product launches and the success, or changes in the timing or the scope, of advertising, sampling and merchandising programs; (6) shifts in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of products and services we sell; (7) social, political and economic risks to our foreign or domestic manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States; (8) changes in the laws, regulations and policies (including the interpretations and enforcement thereof) that affect, or will affect, our business, including those relating to our products or distribution networks, changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, environmental or climate change laws, regulations or accords, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action we may take as a result; (9) foreign currency fluctuations affecting our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets, the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and our operating and manufacturing costs outside of the United States; 42 Table of Contents (10) changes in global or local conditions, including those due to the volatility in the global credit and equity markets, natural or man made disasters, real or perceived epidemics, or energy costs, that could affect consumer purchasing, the willingness or ability of consumers to travel and or purchase our products while traveling, the financial strength of our customers, suppliers or other contract counterparties, our operations, the cost and availability of capital which we may need for new equipment, facilities or acquisitions, the returns that we are able to generate on our pension assets and the resulting impact on funding obligations, the cost and availability of raw materials and the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates; (11) shipment delays, commodity pricing, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from disruptions of operations at any of the facilities that manufacture nearly all of our supply of a particular type of product (i.e. focus factories) or at our distribution or inventory centers, including disruptions that may be caused by the implementation of SAP as part of our Strategic Modernization Initiative or by restructurings; (12) real estate rates and availability, which may affect our ability to increase or maintain the number of retail locations at which we sell our products and the costs associated with our other facilities; (13) changes in product mix to products which are less profitable; (14) our ability to acquire, develop or implement new information and distribution technologies and initiatives on a timely basis and within our cost estimates and our ability to maintain continuous operations of such systems and the security of data and other information that may be stored in such systems or other systems or media; (15) our ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as publicly announced strategies and restructuring and cost savings initiatives, and to integrate acquired businesses and realize value therefrom; (16) consequences attributable to local or international conflicts around the world, as well as from any terrorist action, retaliation and the threat of further action or retaliation; (17) the timing and impact of acquisitions and divestitures, which depend on willing sellers and buyers, respectively; and (18) additional factors as described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. We assume no responsibility to update forward looking statements made herein or otherwise. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The information required by this item is set forth in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K under the caption Liquidity and Capital Resources Market Risk and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
