Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believes," "expects," "plans," "intends," "anticipates" and similar expressions identify forward looking statements. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are: the effect of national and regional economic conditions, lowered levels of consumer spending resulting from a general economic downturn or generally reduced shopping activity caused by public safety concerns, the performance of the Companys products within the prevailing retail environment, customer acceptance of both new designs and newly introduced product lines, financial difficulties encountered by customers, the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which the Company operates, the integration of the organizations and operations of any acquired businesses into existing organization and operations, the termination or non renewal of any acquired businesses into existing organization and operations, the termination or non renewal of material licenses, foreign operations and manufacturing, changes in the costs of materials, labor and advertising, and the Companys ability to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights, as well as the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including, without limitation, the portions referenced above, and the risks and uncertainties set forth on the Companys Current Report on Form 8 K dated June 25, 2003. Accordingly, readers of the Annual Report should consider these facts in evaluating the information and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained herein. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 4   PART I  Item 1. Business General Fossil, Inc. (the "Company") is a leader in the design, development, marketing and distribution of contemporary, high quality fashion watches and accessories. The Company developed the FOSSIL&reg; brand name to convey a distinctive fashion, quality and value message and a brand image reminiscent of an earlier era that suggests a time of fun, fashion and humor. Since its inception in 1984, the Company has grown into a diversified company offering an extensive line of fashion watches under its proprietary FOSSIL, RELIC&reg; and ZODIAC&reg; brands and, pursuant to license agreements, under some of the most prestigous brands in the world, including BURBERRY&reg;, DIESEL&reg;, DKNY&reg; and EMPORIO ARMANI&reg;. Additionally, the Company offers a wide range of accessories including small leather goods, belts, handbags, and sunglasses under the FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL brand apparel. The Company leverages its centralized design/development and production/sourcing expertise by distributing these products through its global distribution network. Domestically, the Company sells its products in approximately 20,500 retail locations in the United States through a diversified distribution network that includes approximately 7,500 department store doors, such as Federated/Macys, Saks, Nordstroms, May Department Stores, and Dillards for its FOSSIL brand and certain licensed brands and JCPenney, Kohls and Sears for its RELIC brand, and approximately 13,000 specialty retail locations. The Company also sells its products in the United Stated through a network of 98 Company owned stores, with 44 retail stores located in premier retail sites and 54 outlet stores located in major outlet malls. The Company also offers selected FOSSIL and licensed brand products at its website, www.fossil.com. Internationally, the Companys products are also sold to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through Company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of approximately 60 independent distributors. The Companys products can be found in Europe, South and Central America, the Caribbean, Canada, Mexico, the Far East, Australia and the Middle East. The Companys products are offered on cruise ships and in 22 international Company owned FOSSIL retail stores. Additionally, the Companys products are sold through independently owned FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks in certain international markets. The Company is a Delaware corporation formed in 1991 and is the successor to a Texas corporation formed in 1984. In 1993, the Company completed an initial public offering of 2,760,000 shares of common stock, par value $.01 (the "Common Stock"). The Company conducts a majority of its operations in the United States through Fossil Partners, L.P., a Texas limited partnership formed in 1994 of which the Company is sole general partner. The Company also conducts operations in the United States and certain international markets through various directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries. The Companys operations in Hong Kong relating to the procurement of watches from various manufacturing sources are conducted by Fossil (East) Limited ("Fossil East"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company acquired in 1992. The Companys principal executive offices are located at 2280 N. Greenville Avenue, Richardson, Texas 75082, and its telephone number at such address is (972) 234 2525. Available Information The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Any document the Company files with the SEC may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. Call the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC 5 maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The SECs internet site is www.sec.gov. The Company makes available its annual report on Form 10 K; quarterly reports on Form 10 Q; current reports on Form 8 K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC and may be accessed via a link from the Companys website (www.fossil.com) to the SECs website (www.sec.gov). The Company also makes available, via this link to the SECs internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of the Companys equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater stockholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The Company makes available on its website its most recent annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q for the current fiscal year and its most recent proxy statement. In some instances, these documents are not available on the Companys site as soon as they are available on the SECs site. In addition, the Company posts its Audit Committee Charter, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and Code of Conduct and Ethics for its directors, officers and employees on its website. Copies of these documents, excluding exhibits, may be requested at no cost by writing or telephoning the Company at 2280 N. Greenville Ave., Richardson, Texas 75082, Attention: Investor Relations (972 234 2525). The information on the Companys internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report. Industry Overview Watch Products The Company believes that the current market for watches in the United States can be divided into four segments. One segment of the market consists of fine watches characterized by internationally known brand names such as Concord, Piaget and Rolex. Watches offered in this segment are usually made of precious metals or stainless steel and may be set with precious gems. These watches are often manufactured in Switzerland and are sold by trade jewelers and in the fine jewelry departments of better department stores and other purveyors of luxury goods at retail prices ranging from $1,500 to in excess of $20,000. A second segment of the market consists of fine premium branded and designer watches manufactured in Switzerland and the Far East such as Gucci, Rado, Raymond Weil, Seiko and Swiss Army. These watches are sold at retail prices generally ranging from $150 to $1,500. The Companys BURBERRY, EMPORIO ARMANI and ZODIAC lines generally compete in this market segment. A third segment of the market consists of watches sold by mass marketers, which include certain watches sold under the Timex brand name as well as certain watches sold by Armitron under various brand names and labels. Retail prices in this segment range from $5 to $40. The Company intends to enter this segment in 2004. The fourth segment of the market consists of moderately priced watches characterized by contemporary fashion and well known brand names. Moderately priced watches are typically manufactured in Japan, China or Hong Kong and are sold by department stores and specialty stores at retail prices ranging from $40 to $150. This market segment is targeted by the Company with its FOSSIL and RELIC lines and by its principal competitors, including the companies that market watches under the Guess?, Anne Klein II, Kenneth Cole and Swatch brand names, whose products attempt to reflect emerging fashion trends in accessories and apparel. The Companys DKNY and DIESEL lines generally compete in this segment as well. Some of the watches in this sector are manufactured under license agreements with companies that market watches under various brand names, including Guess?, Anne Klein II and Kenneth Cole. The Company believes that one reason for the growth of this sector has been that fashion conscious consumers have increasingly come to regard 6 branded fashion watches not only as time pieces but also as fashion accessories. This trend has resulted in consumers owning multiple watches that may differ significantly in terms of style, features and cost. Fashion Accessories The Company believes that the fashion accessories market in the United States includes products such as small leather goods, handbags, belts, eyewear, neckwear, underwear, lounge wear, jewelry, gloves, hats, hosiery and socks. The Company believes that one reason for the growth in this line of business is that consumers are becoming more aware of accessories as fashion statements, and as a result, are purchasing brand name, quality items that complement other fashion items. These fashion accessory products are generally marketed through mass merchandisers, department stores and specialty shops, depending upon price and quality. Higher price point items include products offered by Coach, Dooney & Burke, Ralph Lauren and Donna Karan New York. Moderately priced fashion accessories are typically marketed in department stores and are characterized by contemporary fashion and well known brand names at reasonable price points, such as FOSSIL and RELIC. The Company currently offers small leather goods, handbags, belts, and eyewear for both men and women through department stores and specialty retailers in the moderate to upper moderate price range. Companies such as Tommy Hilfiger, Guess?, Nine West, Kenneth Cole and Liz Claiborne currently operate in this market. In addition, the Company offers fashion jewelry sold under the FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands. Apparel In 2000, the Company introduced a line of FOSSIL apparel that is distributed exclusively through Company owned retail stores and the Companys website. Selling through Company owned stores allows the Company to effectively manage visual presentation, information feedback, inventory levels and operating returns. The apparel line is focused on the casual lifestyle of 16 to 24 year old consumers and consists primarily of jeans, tee shirts, and sweatshirts featuring FOSSIL brand packaging and labeling. The suggested retail selling price of the apparel line is comparable to that of major competitors like American Eagle Outfitters and Gap. The Company has leveraged its existing graphic and store design infrastructure to create a unique product packaging and store concept that differentiates it from other competitors in order to create higher perceived value for the products. Business Strategy The Companys long term goal is to capitalize on the strength of its growing consumer brand recognition and capture an increasing share of a growing number of markets by providing consumers with fashionable, high quality, value driven products. In pursuit of this goal, the Company has adopted operating and growth strategies that provide the framework for the Companys future growth while maintaining the consistency and integrity of its brands. Operating Strategy Fashion Orientation and Design Innovation. The Company is able to market its products to consumers with differing tastes and lifestyles by offering a wide range of brands and product categories at a variety of price points. The Company attempts to stay abreast of emerging fashion and lifestyle trends affecting accessories and apparel and it responds to these trends by making adjustments in its product lines several times each year. The Company differentiates its products from those of its competitors principally through innovations in fashion details, including variations in the treatment of dials, crystals, cases, straps and bracelets for the Companys watches, and innovative treatments and details in its other accessories. 7 Coordinated Product Promotion. The Company coordinates in house product design, packaging, advertising and in store presentations to more effectively and cohesively communicate to its target markets the themes and images associated with its brands. For example, many of the Companys FOSSIL brand products and certain of its accessory products are packaged in metal tins decorated with designs consistent with the Companys marketing strategy and product image. In addition, the Company generally markets its fashion accessory lines through the same distribution channels as its watch lines, using similar in store presentations, graphics and packaging. Product Value. The Companys products provide value to the consumer by offering fashionable, high quality components and features at suggested retail prices generally below those of competitive products of comparable quality. The Company is able to offer certain of its watches at a reasonable price point by manufacturing them principally in the Far East at lower cost than comparable quality watches manufactured in Switzerland. In addition, the Company is able to offer its accessories at reasonable prices because of its close relationships with manufacturers in the Far East. Captive Suppliers. The Company owns a majority interest in a number of watch assemblers with locations in China. In addition, the Company maintains close relationships with accessory manufacturers in the Far East. The Company believes these relationships create a significant competitive advantage as they allow the Company to produce quality products, reduce the delivery time to market and improve overall operating margins. Actively Manage Retail Sales. The Company manages the retail sales process by monitoring customer sales and inventory levels by product category and style, primarily through Electronic Data Interchange ("EDI"), and by assisting retailers in the conception, development and implementation of their marketing programs. Through the Companys merchandising unit, the Company works with retailers to ensure that the Companys products are properly stocked and displayed in accordance with the Companys visual standards. As a result, the Company believes it enjoys close relationships with its principal retailers, often allowing it to influence the mix, quantity and timing of customer purchasing decisions. Centralized Distribution. The Company distributes substantially all of its products sold in the United States and certain of its products sold in international markets from its warehouse and distribution center in Dallas, Texas. The Company also distributes its products to international markets from warehouse and distribution centers located in Germany, Italy, Hong Kong, Australia, France, Switzerland, Japan, Singapore and the United Kingdom. In September 2003, the Company opened a new 100,000 square foot distribution facility in Germany. This facility will support the Companys current distribution operations in Germany, allow the Company to consolidate its European distribution sites and further support future growth throughout Europe. The Company believes its centralized distribution capabilities enable it to reduce inventory risk, increase flexibility in meeting the delivery requirements of its customers and maintain significant cost advantages as compared to its competitors. Growth Strategy Introduce New Products and Brands. The Company continually introduces new products within its existing brands and through license agreements and brand extensions to attract a wide range of consumers with differing tastes and lifestyles. For example, the Company currently offers a full line of fashion watch and accessory products under its FOSSIL and RELIC brands, as well as watches under the BURBERRY, DIESEL, DKNY, and EMPORIO ARMANI brand names pursuant to license agreements. The Company has also entered the market for Swiss made watches with its ZODIAC and BURBERRY lines. In addition, the Company has entered the market for technology enhanced watches pursuant to license agreements with PalmSource and Microsoft. Pursuant to the PalmSource agreement, the Company will produce a watch that contains the Palm OS&reg; platform. 8 Under the Microsoft agreement, the Company produces watches that incorporate Microsofts "SPOT" (Smart Personal Objects Technology) technology, which allows users to receive customized information via FM subcarrier transmissions. Expand International Business. The Company has increased FOSSIL brand advertising internationally to accelerate brand recognition. The Company has also purchased former distributors and entered into joint venture relationships to gain increased control over the brand and develop global marketing efforts. The Company continues to introduce licensed brand products into international markets, open FOSSIL stores and develop new product lines. Leverage Infrastructure. The Company believes it has the design, marketing, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure in place to allow it to manage and grow its businesses. The Company continues to develop additional products and brands and seeks additional businesses and products to complement its existing product lines allowing it to leverage its infrastructure. Expand Retail Locations. The Company has historically expanded its Company owned FOSSIL retail and outlet locations to further strengthen its brand image. The Company currently operates 120 retail and outlet stores worldwide and plans to open an additional 12 to 16 stores in 2004. The Company also offers its watch and accessory products through authorized FOSSIL retail stores in airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets. Products The Company designs, develops, markets and distributes fashion watches and accessories, including sunglasses, small leather goods, belts, and handbags principally under the FOSSIL and RELIC brand names, FOSSIL brand apparel and jewelry, and watches bearing the brand names of certain internationally known fashion companies pursuant to license agreements. Watch Products The Company introduced FOSSIL watches in 1986 and RELIC watches in 1990. Sales of the Companys watches for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 accounted for approximately 70.2%, 69.3%, and 68.1%, respectively, of the Companys net sales. The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Companys owned brand watches: Watch Brand Product Categories Suggested Price Point Range Territory Distribution Channels FOSSIL FOSSIL BLUE, F2, FUEL, BIG TIC, ARKITEKT, TITANIUM, SPEEDWAY $55 165 Worldwide Major dept. stores (Dayton Hudson Corp., Dillards, Federated/Macys, May Dept. Stores, Nordstrom, Inc. and Saks), specialty retailers, Internet, and Company owned stores RELIC RELIC WET, FOLIO, BLUSH, DIAMOND, VIBE $45 85 United States Major retailers (JCPenney, Kohls Department Stores, Inc., Mervyns and Sears) ZODIAC BELLEVUE 14, ALIZE, CALAME SPORT, V SPORT, PETAL, FRENZY, EXTRAVAGANTE $295 795 Worldwide Better department stores, watch specialty stores, and jewelry stores 9 The Company has entered into multi year, worldwide license agreements for the manufacture, distribution and sale of watches bearing the brand names of certain internationally known fashion companies. The following table sets forth specific information with respect to certain of the Companys licensed watch products: Brand(s) Suggested Price Point Range Distribution Channel(s) EMPORIO ARMANI $100 500 Major department stores, specialty retailers, jewelry stores and Emporio Armani boutiques DKNY, DKNY Active, DKNY Jeans & DONNA KARAN NEW YORK $65 150 Better department stores, specialty retailers, and Donna Karan retail stores DIESEL $85 215 Better department stores, specialty retailers, and Diesel retail stores BURBERRY $295 2,500 Better department stores, specialty retailers, and Burberry retail stores The continuation of these license agreements is important to the growth of the Companys watch business, especially in Europe and Asia. The license agreements have various expiration dates between 2004 and 2009. The Company has also entered into a number of license agreements for the sale of collectible watches. Under these agreements, the Company designs, manufactures and markets the goods bearing the trademarks, trade names and logos of various entities through the Companys website and major department stores within the Companys channels of distribution. The Companys DIESEL license expires on December 31, 2004. The Company expects to sign a new license with Diesel within the next few months. Private Label and Premium Products. The Company designs, markets and arranges for the manufacture of watches on behalf of certain companies and organizations as private label products or as premium and incentive items for use in various corporate events. Under this arrangement, the Company performs design and product development functions as well as acts as a sourcing agent for its customers by contracting for the manufacture of watches, managing the manufacturing process, inspecting the finished watches, purchasing the watches and arranging for their shipment to the United States. Participation in the private label and premium businesses provides the Company with certain advantages, including increased manufacturing volume, which may reduce the costs of manufacturing the Companys other watch products, and the strengthening of business relationships with its manufacturing sources. These lines provide income to the Company with reduced inventory risks and certain other carrying costs. Technology Enhanced Products. Pursuant to an agreement with Microsoft, the Company incorporates Microsofts SPOT technology into certain watches under the Companys FOSSIL and ABACUS&reg; brands. These watches receive customized information from Microsoft, such as news, weather and instant messages, via FM subcarrier transmissions. To receive the information, users are required to register with Microsoft, which includes a service fee. Receipt of the information is also subject to local FM reception. The Company also has a license with PalmSource to produce watches that incorporate the Palm OS platform. Fashion Accessories In order to leverage the Companys design and marketing expertise and its close relationships with its principal retail customers, the Company has developed a line of fashion accessories, including 10 handbags, mens and womens belts, small leather goods, jewelry and sunglasses. The Companys handbags are made of a variety of fine leathers and other materials that emphasize classic styles and incorporate a variety of creative designs. The sunglass line features optical quality lenses in both plastic and metal frames, with classic and fashion styling similar to other FOSSIL products. The Companys small leather goods are typically made of fine leathers and include items such as mini bags, coin purses, key chains and wallets. The Companys jewelry lines include earrings, necklaces, rings and bracelets. FOSSIL brand jewelry generally is offered in sterling silver or stainless steel. EMPORIO ARMANI brand jewelry is generally made of sterling silver, semi precious stones or 18K gold. The Company currently sells its fashion accessories through a number of its existing major department store and specialty retail store customers. The Company generally markets its fashion accessory lines through the same distribution channels as its watch business, using similar in store presentations, graphics and packaging. These fashion accessories are typically sold in locations adjacent to watch departments, which may lead to purchases by persons who are familiar with the Companys watches. Sales of the Companys accessory lines for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 accounted for approximately 26.5%, 30.3%, and 25.7%, respectively, of the Companys net sales. The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Companys fashion accessories: Brand Accessory Category Suggested Price Point Range Distribution Channel FOSSIL Sunglasses Handbags Small Leather Goods Belts $28 40 $88 168 $14 68 $22 38 Major dept. stores (Dayton Hudson Corp., Dillards, Federated/Macys, May Dept. Stores, Nordstrom, and Saks), specialty retailers, Company owned stores and Internet FOSSIL Jewelry $26 139 Company owned stores and Internet EMPORIO ARMANI Jewelry $100 1,200 Major department stores, specialty retailers, jewelry stores and Emporio Armani boutiques RELIC Sunglasses Handbags Small Leather Goods Belts $20 25 $20 38 $10 26 $12 25 Major retailers (JCPenney, Kohls and Sears) Apparel In July 2000, the Company introduced a collection of FOSSIL brand apparel and jeans. The jeans wear collection is designed for both men and women. The products unique retro Americana packaging captures the energy and spirit of the FOSSIL brand. The FOSSIL apparel collection is offered through 18 Company owned stores located in leading malls and retail locations in the United States. The line is also available at the Companys web site, www.fossil.com. 11  The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Companys apparel line: Brand Apparel Lines Suggested Price Point Range Distribution Channel FOSSIL Outerwear $36 68 FOSSIL jeans wear stores and Internet Mens Tops $16 36 Mens Bottoms $28 50 Womens Tops $18 36 Womens Bottoms $18 36 T shirts $16 Other Products Licensed Products. In order to complement the Companys existing line of products and to increase consumer awareness of the FOSSIL brand, the Company has entered into license agreements for other categories of fashion accessories. These license agreements provide for royalty income to the Company based on a percentage of net sales and are subject to certain guaranteed minimum royalties. In 1999, the Company entered into a multi year license agreement with the Safilo Group for the manufacture, marketing and sale of optical frames under the FOSSIL brand in the United States and Canada. The Company also entered into a multi year license agreement for the manufacture, marketing and sale of certain handbags, backpacks and sports bags in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands under the FOSSIL brand. Future Products. The Company continually evaluates opportunities to expand its product offerings in the future to include other lines that would complement its existing products. Design and Development The Companys watch, accessory and apparel products are created and developed by its in house design staff in cooperation with various outside sources, including manufacturing sources and component suppliers. For its licensed brands, the Company works with the respective licensors design team. Product design ideas are drawn from various sources and are reviewed and modified by the design staff to ensure consistency with the Companys existing product offerings and the themes and images that it associates with its products. Senior management is actively involved in the design process. In order to respond effectively to changing consumer preferences, the Company attempts to stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and fashion trends affecting accessories and apparel. In addition, the Company attempts to take advantage of the constant flow of information from the Companys customers regarding the retail performance of its products. The Company reviews weekly sales reports provided by a substantial number of the Companys customers containing information with respect to sales and inventories by product category and style. Once a trend in the retail performance of a product category or style has been identified, the design and marketing staffs review their product design decisions to ensure that key features of successful products are incorporated into future designs. Other factors having an influence on the design process include the availability of components, the capabilities of the factories that will manufacture the products and the anticipated retail prices and profit margins for the products. The Company differentiates its products from those of its competitors principally by incorporating into its product designs innovations in fashion details, including variations in the treatment of dials, crystals, cases, straps and bracelets for the Companys watches, and details and treatments in its other 12 accessories. The Company also owns or licenses proprietary technology for certain of its watch products, including its BIG TIC&reg; and KALEIDO&reg; styles. In certain instances, the Company believes that such innovations have allowed it to achieve significant improvements in consumer acceptance of its product offerings with only nominal increases in manufacturing costs. The Company believes that the substantial experience of its design staff will assist it in maintaining its current leadership position in watch design and in expanding the scope of its product offerings. Marketing and Promotion The Companys current FOSSIL brand advertising campaign is aimed at communicating the core philosophy of drawing creative inspiration from vintage inspired themes for product and brands that take advantage of current fashion trends. These themes are carefully coordinated in order to convey the flair for fun, fashion and humor that the Company associates with its products. The Companys nostalgic tin packaging concept for many of its watch products and certain of its accessories is an example of these marketing themes. The tins have become a signature piece to the FOSSIL image and have become popular with collectors. The Company participates in cooperative advertising programs with its major retail customers, whereby it shares the cost of certain of their advertising and promotional expenses. An important aspect of the marketing process involves the use of in store visual support and other merchandising materials, including packages, signs, posters and fixtures. Through the use of these materials, the Company attempts to differentiate the space used to sell its products from other areas of its customers stores. The Company also promotes the use of its Shop in Shop concept for watches, handbags and small leather goods. The Shop in Shop concept involves the use of dedicated space within a customers store to create a brand "shop" featuring the Companys products and visual displays. The Company also provides its customers with a large number of preprinted, customized advertising inserts and from time to time stages promotional events designed to focus public attention on its products. The Companys in house advertising department designs, develops and implements all aspects of the packaging, advertising, marketing and sales promotion of the Companys products. The advertising staff uses computer aided design techniques to generate the images presented on product packaging and other advertising materials. The Company believes that the use of computers encourages greater creativity and reduces the time and cost required to incorporate new themes and ideas into effective product packaging and other advertising materials. Senior management is involved in monitoring the Companys advertising and promotional activities to ensure that themes and ideas are communicated in a cohesive manner to the Companys target audience. The Company advertises, markets and promotes its products to consumers through a variety of media, including catalog inserts, billboards, print media, television, cinema and the internet. The Company has advertised from time to time with billboards and other outdoor advertisements including bus panels in major metropolitan areas. The Company periodically advertises the RELIC brand in certain national fashion and consumer magazines such as Teen, Twist, MH18 and Marie Claire. The Company also periodically advertises in trade publications such as Womens Wear Daily and Daily News Record. Sales and Customers The Company sells its products in approximately 20,500 retail locations in the United States through a diversified distribution network that includes approximately 7,500 department store doors, such as Federated/Macys, Saks, Nordstroms, May Department Stores, and Dillards for its FOSSIL and licensed brands and JCPenney, Kohls and Sears for its RELIC brand, and approximately 13,000 specialty retail locations. The Company also sells its FOSSIL watch and accessory products at Company owned FOSSIL retail stores located at retail sites worldwide and sells certain of its products 13 at Company owned FOSSIL outlet stores located at major outlet malls throughout the United States. The Companys apparel products are sold through FOSSIL jeans wear stores and through the Companys website. The Company also sells its products at retail locations in major airports in the United States, on cruise ships and in independently owned, authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks in certain international markets. The Company generally does not have long term contracts with any of its retail customers. All transactions between the Company and its retail customers are conducted on the basis of purchase orders, which generally require payment of amounts due to the Company on a net 30 day basis for most of its U.S. based customers and up to 90 days for certain international customers. Department Stores. For fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, domestic department stores accounted for approximately 43.1%, 49.3%, and 53.3% of the Companys net sales, respectively. In addition, in the same periods, the Companys 10 largest customers represented approximately 20%, 25%, and 39% of net sales, respectively. No customer accounted for more than 10% of the Companys net sales in fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001. Certain of the Companys customers are under common ownership. No customer, when considered as a group under common ownership, accounted for more than 10% of the Companys net sales in fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001. International Sales. The Companys products are sold to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through Company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of approximately 60 independent distributors. The Companys foreign operations include a presence in Australia, Canada, the Caribbean, Central and South America, Europe, the Far East, and the Middle East. Foreign distributors generally purchase products at uniform prices established by the Company for all international sales and resell them to department stores and specialty retail stores. The Company generally receives payment from its foreign distributors in United States currency. During fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, international and export sales accounted for approximately 43.6%, 38.1%, and 34.5%, of net sales, respectively. Company Owned FOSSIL Stores. In 1995, the Company commenced operations of FOSSIL outlet stores at selected major outlet malls throughout the United States. The Company currently operates 54 outlet stores. These stores, which operate under the FOSSIL name, enable the Company to liquidate excess inventory and increase brand awareness. The Companys products in such stores are generally sold at discounts from 25% to 75% off the suggested retail price. The Company intends to open six to eight additional outlet stores in 2004. In 1996, the Company commenced operations of full priced accessory FOSSIL retail stores at some of the most prestigious retail malls and entertainment parks in the United States in order to broaden the recognition of the FOSSIL brand name. The Company currently operates 26 accessory retail stores in leading malls and retail locations throughout the United States and 18 accessory retail stores in select international markets. These stores, which operate under the FOSSIL name, carry a full assortment of FOSSIL merchandise that is generally sold at the suggested retail price. The Company intends to open three to four additional accessory retail stores in the United States in 2004. The Company also operates four multi brand watch stores in Switzerland. In 2000, the Company began offering FOSSIL brand apparel through specially designed Company owned apparel stores. The Company currently operates 18 FOSSIL jeans wear stores in leading malls and retail locations throughout the United States. The Companys apparel stores carry the full apparel line along with an assortment of certain FOSSIL watch and accessory products. The Company intends to open three to four additional apparel stores in 2004. During fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, Company owned FOSSIL store sales accounted for approximately 13.3%, 12.5%, and 12.5% of net sales, respectively. 14 Internet Sales. In November 1996, the Company established a website at www.fossil.com. The Company offers selected FOSSIL brand watches, certain licensed watch brands, sunglassses, leather goods, apparel, jewelry and other related products on the website. These products are also available to consumers through "storefronts" on America Online, Microsoft Network, Amazon and Yahoo that are connected to the Companys website. In addition to offering selected FOSSIL and licensed brand products, the Company also provides Company news and information on the website. During 2000, the Company launched a business to business site that allows the Companys specialty retail accounts access to real time inventory, account information and automated order processing. Sales Personnel. The Company utilizes an in house sales staff and, to a lesser extent, independent sales representatives to promote the sale of the Companys products to retail accounts. As of the end of fiscal year 2003, the Company had 146 in house sales and customer service employees and 44 independent sales representatives. The Companys in house sales personnel receive a salary and, in some cases, a commission based on a percentage of gross sales attributable to specified accounts. Independent sales representatives generally do not sell competing product lines and are under contracts with the Company that are generally terminable by either party upon 30 days prior notice. These independent contractors are compensated on a commission basis. Customer Service. The Company has developed an approach to managing the retail sales process that involves monitoring its customers sales and inventories by product category and style, primarily through EDI, and assisting in the conception, development and implementation of their marketing programs. For example, the Company reviews weekly selling reports prepared by certain of its principal customers and has established an active EDI program with certain of its customers. The Company also places significant emphasis on the establishment of cooperative advertising programs with its major retail customers. The Company believes that its management of the retail sales process has resulted in close relationships with its principal customers, often allowing it to influence the mix, quantity and timing of their purchasing decisions. The Company believes that its sales approach achieves high retail turnover in its products, which can result in attractive profit margins for its retail customers. The Company believes that the resulting profit margins for its retail customers encourage them to devote greater selling space to its products within their stores and enable the Company to work closely with buyers in determining the mix of products any store should carry. In addition, the Company believes that the buyers familiarity with the Companys sales approach has and should continue to facilitate the introduction of new products through its existing distribution network. The Company permits the return of damaged or defective products. In addition, although it has no obligation to do so, the Company accepts limited amounts of product returns from its customers in certain other instances. Accordingly, the Company provides allowances for the estimated amount of product returns. The allowances for product returns as of the end of fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 were $26.6 million, $24.8 million, and $22.5 million, respectively. Since 1990, the Company has not experienced any returns in excess of the aggregate allowances therefor. Additional information regarding the Companys major customer, segment and geographic information is located in the financial statements. Backlog It is the practice of a substantial number of the Companys customers not to confirm orders by delivering a formal purchase order until a relatively short time prior to the shipment of goods. As a result, the amount of unfilled customer orders includes confirmed orders and orders that the Company believes will be confirmed by delivery of a formal purchase order. A majority of such amounts represent orders that have been confirmed. The remainder of such amounts represent orders that the Company believes, based on industry practice and prior experience, will be confirmed in the ordinary 15 course of business. The Companys backlog at a particular time is affected by a number of factors, including seasonality and the scheduling of the manufacture and shipment of products. Accordingly, a comparison of backlog from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of eventual actual shipments. At the end of 2003, the Company had unfilled customer orders of approximately $72.1 million compared to $43.9 million and $57.4 million for fiscal years 2002 and 2001, respectively. Manufacturing The Companys products are manufactured to its specifications by independent contractors and by companies in which the Company holds a majority interest. Substantially all of the Companys watches are manufactured by approximately 39 factories located primarily in Hong Kong and China, except for the Companys Swiss watches which are assembled in Switzerland. The Company believes that its policy of outsourcing products allows it to achieve increased production flexibility while avoiding significant capital expenditures, build ups of work in process inventory and the costs of managing a substantial production work force. The principal components used in the manufacture of the Companys watches are cases, crystals, dials, movements, bracelets and straps. These components are obtained by the Companys manufacturing sources from a large number of suppliers located principally in Hong Kong, Japan, China, Taiwan, Italy, Thailand, Korea and Switzerland. The Company estimates that the majority of the movements used in the manufacture of the Companys watches are supplied by four principal vendors. No other single component supplier accounted for more than 10% of component supplies in 2003. Although the Company does not normally engage in direct transactions with component suppliers, in some cases it actively reviews the performance of such suppliers and makes recommendations to its manufacturing sources regarding the sourcing of components. The Company does not believe that its business is materially dependent on any single component supplier. The Company believes that it has established and maintains close relationships with a number of watch manufacturers located in Hong Kong and China. In 2003, four separate watch manufacturers in which the Company holds a majority interest each accounted for 10% or more of the Companys watch supplies. The loss of any one of these manufacturers could temporarily disrupt shipments of certain of the Companys watches. However, as a result of the number of suppliers from which the Company purchases its watches, the Company believes that it could arrange for the shipment of goods from alternative sources within approximately 60 days on terms that are not materially different from those currently available to the Company. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that the loss of any single supplier would have a material adverse effect on the Companys business. In general, however, the future success of the Company will depend upon its ability to maintain close relationships with, or ownership of, its current suppliers and to develop long term relationships with other suppliers that satisfy the Companys requirements for price and production flexibility. The Companys products are manufactured according to plans that reflect managements estimates of product performance based on recent sales results, current economic conditions and prior experience with manufacturing sources. The average lead time from the commitment to purchase products through the production and shipment thereof ranges from two to three months in the case of watches, from two to six months in the case of eyewear, from three to four months in the case of leather goods, from two to four months for apparel items and from two to four months for jewelry. The Company believes that the close relationships and, in certain cases, ownership interest that it has established and maintains with its principal manufacturing sources constitute a significant competitive advantage and allow it to quickly and efficiently introduce innovative product designs and alter production in response to the retail performance of its products. 16 Quality Control The Companys quality control program attempts to ensure that its products meet the standards established by its design staff. Samples of products are inspected by the Company prior to the placement of orders with manufacturing sources to ensure compliance with its specifications. The operations of the Companys manufacturing sources located in Hong Kong are monitored on a periodic basis by Fossil (East). Substantially all of the Companys watches and certain of its other accessories are inspected by personnel of Fossil (East) or by the manufacturer prior to shipment to the Company. In addition, the Company performs quality control checks on its products upon receipt at the Companys facility. Distribution Upon completion of manufacturing, the Companys products are shipped to its warehousing and distribution centers in Dallas, Italy, Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, Switzerland, Japan, Singapore and France from which they are shipped to customers in selected markets. The Companys warehouse and distribution facility in Dallas, Texas, near the Companys headquarters, allows the Company to maximize its inventory management and distribution capabilities. In 2003, the Company began distribution from a new 100,000 square foot facility in Germany. This facility supports the Companys current distribution operations in Germany and will allow the Company to consolidate its European distribution sites and further support future growth throughout Europe. The Companys warehouse and distribution facility in Dallas is operated in a special purpose subzone established by the United States Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board. As a result of the establishment of the subzone, the following economic and operational advantages are available to the Company: (i) the Company may not have to pay duty on imported merchandise until it leaves the subzone and enters the United States market, (ii) the Company may not pay any United States duty on merchandise if the imported merchandise is subsequently re exported, and (iii) the Company does not pay local property tax on inventory located within the subzone. Management Information Systems Inventory Control. The Company maintains inventory control systems at its facilities that enable it to track each item of merchandise from receipt from its manufacturing sources through shipment to its customers. To facilitate this tracking, a significant number of products sold by the Company are pre ticketed and bar coded prior to shipment to its retail customers. The Companys inventory control systems report shipping, sales and individual SKU level inventory information. The Company manages the retail sales process by monitoring customer sales and inventory levels by product category and style, primarily through EDI. The Company believes that its distribution capabilities enable it to reduce inventory risk and increase flexibility in responding to the delivery requirements of its customers. The Companys management believes that its EDI efforts will continue to grow in the future as customers focus further on increasing operating efficiencies. In addition, the Company maintains systems that are designed to track inventory movement through its retail and outlet stores. Detailed sales transaction records are accumulated on each stores point of sale system and polled nightly by the Company. Enterprise Resource Planning. During 2003, the Company implemented an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system from SAP AG in the U.S. and Canada locations. Over the next few years, the Company intends to replace its other ERP and other principal financial systems at its international subsidiaries with software systems provided by SAP AG. Warranty and Repair The Companys FOSSIL watch products are covered by a limited warranty against defects in materials or workmanship for a period of 11 years from the date of purchase; RELIC watch products 17 are covered by a comparable 12 year warranty; BURBERRY and ZODIAC watches are covered by a two year limited warranty; and the Companys licensed watch products generally are covered by one year limited warranty. The Companys sunglass line is covered by a one year limited warranty against defects in materials or workmanship. Defective products returned by consumers are processed at the Companys warehousing and distribution centers. In most cases, defective products under warranty are repaired by the Companys personnel. Products under warranty that cannot be repaired in a cost effective manner are replaced by the Company at no cost to the customer. The Company also performs watch repair services on behalf of certain of its private label customers. Governmental Regulations Imports and Import Restrictions. Most of the Companys products are manufactured overseas. As a result, the United States and the countries in which the Companys products are manufactured or sold may from time to time modify existing or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions in a manner that adversely affects the Company. For example, the Companys products imported to the United States are subject to United States customs duties and, in the ordinary course of its business, the Company may from time to time be subject to claims by the United States Customs Service for duties and other charges. Factors which may influence the modification or imposition of these restrictions include the determination by the United States Trade Representative that a country has denied adequate intellectual property rights or fair and equitable market access to United States firms that rely on intellectual property, trade disputes between the United States and a country that leads to withdrawal of "most favored nation" status for that country and economic and political changes within a country that are viewed unfavorably by the government of the United States. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, these events would have on its operations, especially in light of the concentration of its manufacturing operations in Hong Kong and China. General. The Companys sunglass products are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration as medical devices. The Company does not believe that compliance with such regulations is material to its operations. In addition, the Company is subject to various state and federal regulations generally applicable to similar businesses. Intellectual Property Trademarks. The Company has registered the FOSSIL and RELIC trademarks for use on the Companys watches, leather goods, apparel and other fashion accessories in the United States and in certain foreign countries, including a number of countries located in Europe, the Far East, the Middle East, South America and Central America. The Company has also registered or applied for registration in the United States and internationally certain other marks used by the Company in conjunction with the sale and marketing of its products and services, including ZODIAC, AVIA, ABACUS and ANTIMA. Patents. The Company continues to explore innovations in the design and manufacture of its watch products and is involved in the development of technology enhanced watches. As a result, the Company has been granted, and has pending, various United States and international design and utility patents related to certain of its watch designs and features. The Company also has been granted, and has pending, various United States patents related to certain of its other products and technologies. The Company regards its trademarks, trade dress and patents as valuable assets and believes that they have significant value in the marketing of its products. The Company intends to protect its intellectual property rights vigorously against infringement. 18 Competition There is intense competition in each of the businesses in which the Company competes. The Companys watch business competes with a number of established manufacturers, importers and distributors such as Guess? Anne Klein II, Kenneth Cole and Swatch. In addition, the Companys leather goods, sunglass, jewelry and apparel businesses compete with a large number of established companies that have significantly greater experience than the Company in designing, developing, marketing and distributing such products. In all of its businesses, the Company competes with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors who have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than the Company. The Companys competitors include distributors that import watches, accessories and apparel from abroad, domestic companies that have established foreign manufacturing relationships and companies that produce accessories and apparel domestically. The Company competes primarily on the basis of style, price, value, quality, brand name, advertising, marketing and distribution. In addition, the Company believes that its ability to identify and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences, to maintain existing relationships and develop new relationships with manufacturing sources, to deliver quality merchandise in a timely manner and to manage the retail sales process are important factors in its ability to compete. The Company considers that the risk of significant new competitors is mitigated to some extent by barriers to entry such as high startup costs and the development of long term relationships with customers and manufacturing sources. During the past few years, it has been the Companys experience that better department stores and other major retailers have been increasingly unwilling to source products from suppliers who are not well capitalized or do not have a demonstrated ability to deliver quality merchandise in a timely manner. There can be no assurance, however, that significant new competitors will not emerge in the future. Employees As of the end of fiscal year 2003, the Company (excluding Arrow Merchandising, Inc. and the Companys foreign subsidiaries) had 2,568 employees, including 327 in executive or managerial positions and the balance in design, advertising, sales, quality control, distribution, clerical and other office positions. As of the end of fiscal year 2003, the Companys foreign operating subsidiaries had 1,114 employees, including 112 in managerial positions. The Company has not entered into any collective bargaining agreements with its domestic employees. The Company believes that its relations with its employees are generally good.  Item 2. Properties Company Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2003, the Company owned or leased the following facilities in connection with its domestic and international operations: Location Use Square Footage Owned / Leased Richardson, Texas Corporate headquarters 190,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Warehouse 138,000 Owned Dallas, Texas Office, warehouse and distribution 517,500 Owned Eggst&auml;tt, Germany Office, warehouse and distribution 100,000 Owned Saverne, France Office, warehouse and distribution 51,450 Owned Atlanta, Georgia General office and showroom 1,380 Lease expiring in 2006 Chicago, Illinois General office and showroom 2,980 Lease expiring in 2004 Los Angeles, California General office and showroom 1,934 Lease expiring in 2005 New York, New York General office and showroom 13,596 Lease expiring in 2006 Basel, Switzerland Office and warehouse 7,589 Lease expiring in 2006 19 Bienne, Switzerland Warehouse, distribution and manufacturing 4,779 Lease expiring in 2004 China Manufacturing 86,359 Lease expiring in 2005 China Manufacturing 48,000 Lease expiring in 2006 China Manufacturing 22,000 Lease expiring in 2008 Erlst&auml;tt, Germany Office, warehouse and distribution 12,000 Lease expiring in 2010 Hong Kong Office and warehouse 37,600 Lease expiring in 2005 Milton Keynes, England Office, warehouse and distribution 8,250 Lease expiring in 2005 Sydney, Australia Office, warehouse and distribution 4,375 Lease expiring in 2004 Tokyo, Japan Office, warehouse and distribution 3,594 Lease expiring in 2005 Vicenza, Italy Office, warehouse and distribution 22,750 Lease expiring in 2007 The Companys Richardson, Texas facilities are located on approximately 20 acres of land and the Dallas, Texas, facility is on approximately 47 acres of land. The Company owns these facilities and the land on which each is located. Jeans Wear Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2003, the Company had entered into 18 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of its apparel line and certain of its accessory products. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2013. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. The Company is also required to pay its pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. Accessory Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2003, the Company had entered into 27 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of its full assortment of accessory products. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2004 to 2015. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. The Company is also required to pay its pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. Outlet Store Facilities. The Company also leases retail space at selected outlet centers throughout the United States for the sale of its products. As of the end of fiscal year 2003, the Company had entered into 59 such leases. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2004 to 2012, and provide for minimum annual rentals and for the payment of additional rent based on a percentage of sales above specified net sales amounts. The Company is also required to pay its pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs at each outlet center, including, real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. International Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2003, the Company operated 22 retail stores in various international markets, including the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, Singapore and Australia. The Company anticipates opening two additional stores in Australia in 2004. The Company believes that its existing facilities are well maintained and in good operating condition. 20  Item 3. Legal Proceedings There are no legal proceedings to which the Company is a party or to which its properties are subject, other than routine litigation incident to the Companys business which is not material to the Companys consolidated financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matter was submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Company during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003. 21   PART II  Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities The Companys Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "FOSL." Quotation of the Companys Common Stock began on the Nasdaq National Market on April 8, 1993. The following table sets forth the range of quarterly high and low sales prices per share of the Companys Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market for the fiscal years ended January 3, 2004 and January 4, 2003. Such prices have been adjusted to reflect a three for two stock split of the Companys Common Stock effected as a fifty percent (50%) stock dividend declared on May 14, 2002 and paid on June 7, 2002 to all stockholders of record on May 24, 2002. This data has not been adjusted to reflect the three for two stock split declared on March 12, 2004, to be effected in the form of a stock dividend to be paid on April 8, 2004 to stockholders of record on March 26, 2004. High Low Fiscal year beginning January 5, 2003: First Quarter $ 21.540 $ 15.950 Second Quarter 24.440 16.200 Third Quarter 29.000 23.750 Fourth Quarter 30.200 24.350 Fiscal year beginning January 6, 2002: First Quarter $ 18.667 $ 13.167 Second Quarter 23.740 17.527 Third Quarter 24.610 15.600 Fourth Quarter 22.620 14.990 As of March 15, 2004, there were 153 holders of record, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners. Cash Dividend Policy. The Company expects that it will retain all available earnings generated by its operations for the development and growth of its business and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to a cash dividend policy will be made at the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company and will depend on a number of factors, including the future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects of the Company and such other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant. 22 The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of the Company or any "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Rule 10b 18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), of the Companys Common Stock during the fourth quarter of the Companys fiscal year ended January 3, 2004. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (2) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) Month #1 (October 5, 2003 to November 1, 2003) 125,000 $ 26.0835 125,000 102,594 Month #2 (November 2, 2003 to November 29, 2003) 8,424 $ 27.0000 8,424 94,170 Month #3 (November 30, 2003 to January 3, 2004 30,900 $ 26.7252 30,900 63,270 Total 164,324 $ 26.2512 164,324 (1)No shares were purchased other than through the publicly announced repurchase program during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended January 3, 2004. (2)On September 18, 2000, the Company announced that its board of directors had approved a share repurchase program, pursuant to which up to 3,750,000 shares of the Companys Common Stock may be repurchased. As of January 22, 2004, the Company completed the repurchase of the total amount of shares authorized under all previous repurchase programs. The information under the heading "Equity Compensation Plan Information" in the Companys proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this report, is incorporated into Item 12 of this report by reference. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In December 2003, the Company issued shares of its Common Stock in exchange for certain assets from European Specialty Stores. On December 18, 2003, the Company agreed to issue to European Specialty Stores 4,972 shares of Common Stock in exchange for the transfer of three FOSSIL stores in the Netherlands and three FOSSIL stores in Germany that were previously operated under license from the Company. The issuance of the shares of Common Stock was not registered under the Securities Act, but instead the shares were issued in reliance on the exemption from registration set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The transactions were privately negotiated without any general solicitation or advertising. The purchaser is a "sophisticated investor" within the meaning of the Securities Act and has access to all information concerning the Company needed to make an informed decision with respect to the transactions. The certificate evidencing the shares bears a legend reflecting that the shares are subject to the restriction on transfer under the Securities Act, including Rule 144 promulagated thereunder. 23  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following information should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereon. Fiscal Year 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net Sales $ 781,175 $ 663,338 $ 545,541 $ 504,285 $ 418,762 Gross Profit 401,377 334,085 271,850 255,746 212,887 Operating Income 109,750 95,930 76,854 93,821 87,449 Income before income taxes 109,471 95,979 72,804 94,717 87,841 Net income 68,335 58,907 43,683 (1) 55,883 51,826 Earnings per share: (2) Basic 1.47 1.28 0.97 (1) 1.18 1.08 Diluted 1.40 1.22 0.93 (1) 1.14 1.03 Weighted average common shares outstanding: (2) Basic 46,545 45,993 45,251 47,534 47,850 Diluted 48,788 48,238 46,860 49,013 50,142 Working capital $ 313,561 $ 241,177 $ 163,280 $ 169,792 $ 155,198 Total assets 587,541 482,526 380,863 307,591 269,364 Long term debt Stockholders equity 423,426 340,541 264,023 220,699 191,197 Return on average stockholders equity 18.4 % 19.9 % 18.3 % 26.9 % 32.2 % (1)Includes a $2.9 million one time charge which reflects the write off of the carrying value of the Companys investment in SII Marketing International, Inc. as a result of the Companys decision to terminate its equity participation in the joint venture relationship. Excluding this one time charge, pro forma net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share were $46.5 million, $1.03 and $0.99, respectively. (2)All share and per share price data has been adjusted to reflect three for two stock splits effected in the form of a stock dividend paid on August 17, 1999 and June 7, 2002. This data has not been adjusted to reflect the three for two stock split declared on March 12, 2004, to be effected in the form of a stock dividend to be paid on April 8, 2004 to stockholders of record on March 26, 2004.  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations SUMMARY Fossil is a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer products predicated on fashion and value. The FOSSIL brand name was developed by the Company to convey a distinctive fashion, quality and value message and a brand image reminiscent of an earlier time in America that suggests a time of fun, fashion and humor. Since its inception in 1984, the Company has grown from its original flagship FOSSIL watch product into a dominant global watch company with a well recognized branded portfolio delivered over an extensive distribution network. The Companys principle offerings include an extensive line of watches sold under the Companys proprietary brands as well as licensed brands for some of the most prestigious companies in the world. The Company also offers complementary lines of small leather goods, belts, handbags and sunglasses under its proprietary FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL apparel. The Companys centralized infrastructure in design/development and production/sourcing allows it to leverage the strength of its branded watch portfolio over an extensive global distribution network. The Companys products are sold primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through Company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of 24 approximately 60 independent distributors. The Companys foreign operations include wholly or majority owned subsidiaries in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland and the U.K. In addition, the Companys products are offered at Company owned retail locations, located in the United States and certain international markets, and authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks located in several major airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets. The Companys successful expansion of its product lines worldwide and leveraging of its infrastructure have contributed to its increasing net sales and operating profits. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debts, and inventories. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Revenues. Revenues are recognized as sales when merchandise is shipped and title transfers to the customer. The Company permits the return of damaged or defective products and accepts limited amounts of product returns in certain other instances. Accordingly, the Company provides allowances for the estimated amounts of these returns at the time of revenue recognition based on historical experience and any current issues identified. While such returns have historically been within managements expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. Any significant increase in product damages or defects and the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. Accounts Receivable. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within the Companys expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in amounts equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Asset Impairment. The Company is required to test for asset impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. The Company applies SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. Management evaluates the ongoing value of assets, primarily leasehold improvements and in store fixturing, associated with its retail stores that have been open longer than one year. When undiscounted cash 25 flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying value of those assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. Goodwill. The Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, on January 6, 2002. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, management evaluates goodwill for impairment by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the book value. The fair value of the Companys reporting units is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies and market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the implied fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the book value of the goodwill, no impairment loss is recognized. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and 2002, the Company performed the required annual impairment test and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. 2003 HIGHLIGHTS During 2003, the Company launched the BURBERRY line of Swiss made watches globally. The Company believes BURBERRY watches will expand its existing relationships with its international customer base and add specialty watch and jewelry store distribution in the U.S. EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry, initially launched in the fourth quarter of 2002, was further rolled out globally. Combined with the existing EMPORIO ARMANI watch business, this business will assist the Company in expanding its license relationship with the Georgio Armani group while providing the opportunity to extend the global presence of the Companys product assortment under this brand. With the addition of BURBERRY watches and solid growth in EMPORIO ARMANI, DKNY and DIESEL watches, licensed watch sales increased to 25% of consolidated sales in 2003 compared to 21% in 2002. The retail price points of these aspirational brands are generally higher than the related retail prices of the Companys proprietary brands allowing the Company to experience higher sales and gross profit margins per unit. In January, the Company completed the consolidation of its North American distribution/warehouse operations into its state of the art 500,000 square foot distribution center located in Dallas. In July, the Company put into service a new enterprise resource planning system, SAP, for its North American operations. The Company anticipates converting all of its subsidiaries systems to SAP over the next several years. Implementation of SAP in Germany commenced during the fourth quarter and the Company expects the European phase of its global implementation to be complete by the end of 2005 or early 2006. In September, the Company moved into its new 100,000 square foot European distribution facility located in Germany. The Company believes consolidation of existing distribution facilities in France, Italy, Switzerland and the UK into its new European distribution facility will be completed over the next several years. The Companys operating margin for 2003 was 14.1% and managements goal is to reach 17% over the next few years. During the second half of 2003, the Companys sales growth and increasing gross profit margin resulted in increased operating margins over the comparable prior year period. The Company believes this to be a significant achievement given its continued investment in new business initiatives, including technology products, Swiss watches and jewelry, as well as infrastructure additions, including new distribution facilities and SAP, to support its future growth prospects. During 2003, the Companys retail stores experienced same store sales comps in excess of 10%. This sales growth, combined with higher gross profit margins and lower operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, resulted in operating income growth of approximately $11 million in 2003 over 2002. 26 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of the Companys net sales represented by certain line items from the Companys consolidated statements of income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the years indicated. Fiscal Year 2003 Percentage change from 2002 2002 Percentage change from 2001 2001 Net sales 100.0 % 17.8 % 100.0 % 21.6 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 48.6 15.4 49.6 20.3 50.2 Gross profit 51.4 20.1 50.4 22.9 49.8 Operating expenses 37.3 22.5 35.9 22.1 35.7 Operating income 14.1 14.4 14.5 24.8 14.1 Interest expense (42.1 ) (66.4 ) 0.1 Other (expense) income net (239.1 ) 104.2 (0.7 ) Income before income taxes 14.1 14.1 14.5 31.8 13.3 Provision for income taxes 5.3 11.0 5.6 27.3 5.3 Net income 8.8 % 16.0 % 8.9 % 34.9 % 8.0 % The following table sets forth certain components of the Companys consolidated net sales and the percentage relationship of the components to consolidated net sales for the fiscal year indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 International: Europe $ 258.1 $ 189.4 $ 130.3 33.1 % 28.6 % 23.9 % Other 82.0 63.6 56.1 10.5 9.6 10.3 Total international 340.1 253.0 186.4 43.6 38.2 34.2 Domestic: Watch products 205.7 200.9 180.6 26.3 30.3 33.1 Other products 131.3 126.3 110.3 16.8 19.0 20.2 Total domestic 337.0 327.2 290.9 43.1 49.3 53.3 Stores worldwide 104.1 83.1 68.2 13.3 12.5 12.5 Total net sales $ 781.2 $ 663.3 $ 545.5 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 27  FISCAL 2003 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2002 NET SALES The following table is intended to illustrate a tabular analysis of the year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe 19 % 2 % 15 % 36 % Other international 5 9 15 29 Domestic wholesale 3 3 Retail worldwide 1 5 19 25 Total 6 % 2 % 10 % 18 % International Net Sales. European sales growth was driven by sales volume increases in FOSSIL, DIESEL and DKNY watches and FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry. Growth from other international sales, that include the Companys Canada and Far East distribution businesses and export sales from the U.S., was led by sales volume increases in FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI and DIESEL watch businesses. The Company believes it maintains a competitive advantage as a result of its long term relationships and strength of its business with its retailers throughout the international marketplace. The Company further believes its impressive portfolio of global watch brands and its ability to acquire additional brands position it for further penetration internationally as it continues to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands. The Company believes these brands do not have the marketing strength, distribution network or the global brand recognition in comparison to the brands included in the Companys watch portfolio. Additionally, the Company anticipates the recent additions of Swiss made BURBERRY and ZODIAC watches and EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry will further advance its product offering and allow for long term leverage of its existing distribution infrastructure outside the U.S. further strengthening its competitive advantage. Management believes its international businesses will continue to contribute significant double digit sales increases in 2004, assuming the U.S. dollar does not fall substantially below a translation rate to the Euro of $1.25 to 1.00 Euro. Domestic Net Sales. Domestic watch sales increased 2.4% primarily as a result of a 5.5% increase in sales of FOSSIL watches and a 17.3% increase in sales of licensed brand watches. These sales gains were partially offset by decreases in RELIC watches and by the discontinuance of the EDDIE BAUER private label watch line. Management believes it can gain additional market share for FOSSIL and its other watch brands in the U.S. market by expanding door growth for certain brands that it believes are under penetrated by utilizing the talent of its broad based design group and exploiting the speed of its supply chain that allows for quicker response to changes in fashion trends than its competitors. Domestic sales of the Companys accessory and sunglass businesses rose 4.0% with particular strength in RELIC accessories, FOSSIL mens leather and FOSSIL sunglasses. Excluding RELIC eyewear that experienced a decrease in sales volume in 2003 due to the loss of a sizeable portion of a significant customers business, domestic sales of the Companys accessory and sunglass businesses increased 9.0%. FOSSIL watches and accessories continue to be a leading supplier to U.S. department and specialty retail stores. Moreover, management believes Swiss made BURBERY and ZODIAC watches and EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry will allow the Company to expand into additional distribution channels in the U.S., primarily specialty watch and jewelry stores during 2004 and beyond. Management believes sales growth for its domestic wholesale businesses to be in the mid to high single digit range for 2004. Company Owned Retail Stores Net Sales. Sales from Company owned retail stores worldwide increased 25.3% during the year as a result of a 14.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comp store sales gains of 10.6%. Management believes its double digit 28 comp store growth during the year was attributable to better in store merchandising and visual presentation and lower quantities of discounted merchandise available in comparison to the prior year that resulted in higher average selling prices during 2003. The Company operated 119 stores at the end of the year, consisting of 53 outlet, 26 accessory and 18 jeanswear stores in the United States and 22 stores located outside the United States. This compares to 104 stores at the end of the prior year; 47 outlet, 23 accessory and 18 jeanswear in the United States and 16 stores located outside the United States. The Company opened 17 new stores during the year, including six stores acquired in Europe, and closed two stores. Management expects 12 to 16 new stores will be opened in 2004 with at least one half of these new store openings planned to be outlet concepts. Based upon planned new door openings and continued positive comp store sales growth, management believes retail stores net sales growth will exceed 15% in 2004. A store is included in comp store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comp store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comp store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin increased to 51.4% compared to 50.4% in the prior year. This margin expansion can be attributed primarily to (i) increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from the Companys international businesses, Company owned retail stores and licensed watch products; and (ii) higher international gross profit margin due to stronger foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. Sales from the Companys international businesses, Company owned retail stores and licensed products generally provide gross profit margins in excess of the Companys historical consolidated gross profit margin. Gross profit margins generated from the Companys international businesses are historically higher than those experienced in the U.S. mainly due to higher average wholesale prices charged for watch products internationally and the general absence of lower margin accessory businesses offered outside the U.S. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin increases, were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from RELIC accessory products that generally provide gross profit margin below the Companys historical consolidated gross profit margin. Management believes 2004 gross profit margin will be favorably impacted since sales from its international businesses and Company owned retail stores are forecasted to increase at a faster rate than the Companys total sales. Additionally, assuming the U.S. dollar does not fall substantially below a translation rate to the Euro of $1.25 to 1.0 Euro, the Company believes gross profit margin for 2004 could increase 50 to 75 basis points. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $53 million during 2003 and, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 37.3% during 2003 compared to 35.9% for the prior year. Included in 2003 operating expenses is approximately $13 million in additional costs related to the translation impact of stronger foreign currencies into U.S. dollars and approximately $7 million related to operating expenses of businesses acquired in 2002. The remaining $33 million increase in operating expenses during 2003 primarily reflects increases in (i) personnel and other costs associated with new business initiatives primarily related to the Companys Swiss watch, EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry and tech watch businesses for which there have been minimal revenue contributions to date, (ii) advertising costs, and (iii) depreciation and amortization expense. For the year, total advertising expense increased $11.0 million to 7.1% of net sales compared to 6.7% of net sales in 2002. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.8 million due to completion of the first phase of the Companys SAP global software implementation in July 2003 as well as other capital additions made during 2003. Management anticipates 2004 operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, to decrease slightly from the levels experienced in 2003, assuming increased revenue contributions from the new business initiatives and non recurrence of certain new product launch costs incurred during 2003. Since the Companys sales are more heavily weighted toward the second half of the year, management expects operating expenses as a percentage of sales to be equal to or slightly greater than the prior year during the first six months of 2004 and slightly less than the prior year during the second six months of the year. 29 Operating Income. Increased operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, were partially offset by improved gross profit margins resulting in operating profit margin of 14.1% of net sales compared to 14.5% of net sales in 2002. Operating income for the year included approximately $15 million of additional income as a result of the effects of stronger foreign currencies. Management believes operating margin for 2004 could expand by 50 to 100 basis points, based on assumptions discussed above. Operating profit margin during the first half of 2004 could be slightly below this range, while operating margin in the second half of the year could approach, or slightly exceed, the high end of the range. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, royalty income, foreign currency transaction gains (losses), minority interest expense of the Companys majority owned consolidated subsidiaries and equity in the earnings of its non consolidated joint venture. During 2003, other income (expense) decreased unfavorably by approximately $300,000. The decrease was primarily a result of increased minority interest expense and legal expenses related to enforcing the Companys intellectual property rights offset by increased foreign currency transaction gains and increased interest income due to higher levels of invested cash balances maintained during 2003. Income Taxes. The Companys effective income tax rate decreased to 37.6% during 2003 compared to 38.6% in the prior year. This decrease was primarily related to a higher mix of income generated from countries whose statutory income tax rates are lower than the Companys historical average income tax rate. Management believes this trend in its mix of income will continue, and as a result, expects its income tax rate to decrease slightly in 2004. FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001 Net Sales. Net sales increased 22% for the year (19% excluding currency gains). This increase was led by strong sales volume growth in the Companys international businesses, primarily from Europe which experienced a 45% increase (36% excluding currency gains). The Company believes its strategy of utilizing its impressive portfolio of watch brands continues to position it for further market penetration in Europe and the Far East. Also, the Company believes the addition of Swiss made BURBERRY and ZODIAC watches and EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry will further advance its product offerings and allow for long term leverage of its existing distribution infrastructure inside and outside the U.S. Businesses acquired in Switzerland, Canada and Japan contributed approximately $6.7 million to international sales. In the U.S., sales from the Companys domestic wholesale businesses grew 12% as a result of further expansion of RELIC accessories, significant growth in licensed watch sales and solid growth in FOSSIL watches and accessories. Market expansion of RELIC handbags, small leather goods and sunglasses in the national department store channel accelerated beyond the launch of these product categories in 2001. Licensed watch sales growth in 2002 benefited from the launch of the COLUMBIA brand and further market penetration in DIESEL, EMPORIO ARMANI and DKNY. FOSSIL watches grew market share in the U.S. during 2002 and further expanded its leading fashion watch position in department and selected specialty stores. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin increased to 50.4% compared to 49.8% in the prior year. This increase is attributed to increased sales mix from the Companys international businesses and licensed watches as a percentage of total sales. International sales and licensed watch sales grew to approximately 38% and 21% of total sales during 2002, respectively, as compared to 34% and 17.5% during 2001, respectively. Both international and licensed watch sales generally provide gross margins in excess of the Companys historical consolidated gross profit margin. Additionally, gross profit margin was favorably impacted from a lower sales mix of accessory products that generally provide gross profit margins below the Companys historical consolidated gross profit margin. A stronger Euro during 2002 compared to the prior year slightly benefited gross profit margin. 30 Operating Expenses. Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 35.9% compared to 35.7% for the prior year. The $43 million increase in operating expenses primarily reflects increased variable costs to support sales growth, as well as higher distribution costs relating to the Companys new distribution facility, increased payroll cost, increased advertising expenditures, operating expenses related to acquired businesses and higher costs in Europe due to the effects of a stronger Euro. The increase in payroll and advertising costs is primarily associated with new business initiatives, including Swiss made watches, jewelry and new technology products. Operating Income. Increased sales and improved gross profit margin more than offset increases in operating expenses for the year. As a result, the Companys operating profit margin increased to 14.5% from 14.1% in the prior year. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, royalty income, minority interests in the earnings (loss) of the Companys majority owned subsidiaries and equity in the earnings (losses) of its non consolidated joint venture. During 2002, other income (expense) decreased unfavorably by approximately $900,000 primarily as a result of reduced interest income due to lower yields on invested cash balances and the effects of a $500,000 legal settlement received by the Company in the prior year. Income Taxes. The Companys effective income tax rate decreased to 38.6% during 2002 compared to 40% in the prior year. This decrease was primarily related to a higher mix of income generated from countries whose statutory income tax rates are lower than the Companys historical average income tax rate. EFFECTS OF INFLATION Management does not believe that inflation has had a material impact on results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on the Company and the industry. Management believes that, to the extent inflation affects its costs in the future, the Company could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys general business operations historically have not required substantial cash needs during the first several months of its fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, the Companys cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching its peak in the September November time frame. The Companys cash holdings and short term marketable securities as of year end increased to $164 million in comparison to $118 million at the end of the prior year. This $46 million increase in cash flow is primarily derived from $74 million of net cash generated from operating activities offset by $31 million used in investing activities, primarily related to $29 million in additions to property plant and equipment and $7 million used in financing activities, primarily related to amounts associated with repurchases and retirements of Common Stock, offset by proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of stock options. Accounts receivable increased to $122 million at year end compared to $86 million at January 4, 2003. Days sales outstanding increased to 43 days for the year compared to 37 days in the prior year. The majority of this increase was attributable to an increase in the Companys collection cycle and currency translation effects. The collection cycle has increased as a result of a larger percentage of international sales, which historically have longer collection periods than those experienced in the U.S. Inventory at year end was current and on plan at $127 million, an increase of 4.1% compared to prior year inventory of $122 million, and well below the rate of the Companys net sales growth. At the end of the year, the Company had working capital of $314 million compared to working capital of $241 million at the end of the prior year. The Company had approximately $2.8 million of outstanding borrowings against its combined $43 million short term bank credit facility at the end of 31 the year. Management believes that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand and amounts available under its credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy the cash requirements of its working capital needs for at least the next eighteen months. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS For disclosure regarding the Companys contractual obligations, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. The Company has no unconsolidated off balance sheet arrangements or material purchase obligations. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from the unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Fiscal Year 2003 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 169,767 $ 159,593 $ 192,616 $ 259,199 Gross profit 85,616 81,868 96,976 136,917 Operating expenses 65,794 65,670 69,592 90,571 Operating income 19,822 16,198 27,384 46,346 Income before income taxes 19,585 16,706 27,183 45,997 Provision for income taxes 7,442 6,317 10,383 16,994 Net income 12,143 10,389 16,800 29,003 Earnings per share: Basic 0.26 0.22 0.36 0.62 Diluted 0.25 0.21 0.34 0.59 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 50.4 % 51.3 % 50.3 % 52.8 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 38.8 % 41.1 % 36.1 % 34.9 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 11.7 % 10.1 % 14.2 % 17.9 % Fiscal Year 2002 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 143,680 $ 142,460 $ 164,821 $ 212,377 Gross profit 71,492 71,475 81,579 109,539 Operating expenses 52,229 55,306 58,419 72,201 Operating income 19,263 16,169 23,160 37,338 Income before income taxes 19,367 15,962 23,112 37,538 Provision for income taxes 7,552 6,224 9,015 14,281 Net income 11,815 9,738 14,097 23,257 Earnings per share: Basic 0.26 0.21 0.31 0.50 Diluted 0.25 0.20 0.29 0.48 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 49.8 % 50.2 % 49.5 % 51.6 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 36.4 % 38.8 % 35.4 % 34.0 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 13.4 % 11.3 % 14.1 % 17.6 % 32 While the majority of the Companys products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of the Companys net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. The Companys fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas season, generated in excess of 40% of the Companys annual operating income for 2003. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond the Companys control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on the Companys net sales and operating income in the first quarter as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. Management currently believes that the Companys inventory levels at its major customers at the end of 2003 were at or near retailers target inventory levels. Increasing the number of Company owned stores would generally amplify the Companys seasonality by decreasing the Companys operating income in the first half of the year while increasing operating income during the second half of the year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by the Company.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK As a multinational enterprise, the Company is exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company views this risk as relating primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. The Company employs a variety of practices to manage this market risk, including its operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments. Forward contracts have been utilized by the Company to mitigate a significant portion of its foreign currency risk related to expected payments of certain intercompany balances as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. The Companys most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro and the British Pound. The Company uses derivative financial instruments only for risk management purposes and does not use them for speculation or for trading. Use of these derivatives will generally limit the Companys ability to benefit fully from a weak U.S. dollar but will also lessen the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar. There were no significant changes in how the Company managed foreign currency transactional exposure during 2003 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposure or in the strategies it employs to manage such exposure in the near future. 33   
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations SUMMARY Fossil is a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer products predicated on fashion and value. The FOSSIL brand name was developed by the Company to convey a distinctive fashion, quality and value message and a brand image reminiscent of an earlier time in America that suggests a time of fun, fashion and humor. Since its inception in 1984, the Company has grown from its original flagship FOSSIL watch product into a dominant global watch company with a well recognized branded portfolio delivered over an extensive distribution network. The Companys principle offerings include an extensive line of watches sold under the Companys proprietary brands as well as licensed brands for some of the most prestigious companies in the world. The Company also offers complementary lines of small leather goods, belts, handbags and sunglasses under its proprietary FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL apparel. The Companys centralized infrastructure in design/development and production/sourcing allows it to leverage the strength of its branded watch portfolio over an extensive global distribution network. The Companys products are sold primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through Company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of 24 approximately 60 independent distributors. The Companys foreign operations include wholly or majority owned subsidiaries in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland and the U.K. In addition, the Companys products are offered at Company owned retail locations, located in the United States and certain international markets, and authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks located in several major airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets. The Companys successful expansion of its product lines worldwide and leveraging of its infrastructure have contributed to its increasing net sales and operating profits. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debts, and inventories. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Revenues. Revenues are recognized as sales when merchandise is shipped and title transfers to the customer. The Company permits the return of damaged or defective products and accepts limited amounts of product returns in certain other instances. Accordingly, the Company provides allowances for the estimated amounts of these returns at the time of revenue recognition based on historical experience and any current issues identified. While such returns have historically been within managements expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. Any significant increase in product damages or defects and the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. Accounts Receivable. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. The Company continuously monitors collections and payments from its customers and maintains a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within the Companys expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in amounts equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Asset Impairment. The Company is required to test for asset impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. The Company applies SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. Management evaluates the ongoing value of assets, primarily leasehold improvements and in store fixturing, associated with its retail stores that have been open longer than one year. When undiscounted cash 25 flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying value of those assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. Goodwill. The Company adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, on January 6, 2002. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, management evaluates goodwill for impairment by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the book value. The fair value of the Companys reporting units is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies and market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the implied fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the book value of the goodwill, no impairment loss is recognized. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and 2002, the Company performed the required annual impairment test and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. 2003 HIGHLIGHTS During 2003, the Company launched the BURBERRY line of Swiss made watches globally. The Company believes BURBERRY watches will expand its existing relationships with its international customer base and add specialty watch and jewelry store distribution in the U.S. EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry, initially launched in the fourth quarter of 2002, was further rolled out globally. Combined with the existing EMPORIO ARMANI watch business, this business will assist the Company in expanding its license relationship with the Georgio Armani group while providing the opportunity to extend the global presence of the Companys product assortment under this brand. With the addition of BURBERRY watches and solid growth in EMPORIO ARMANI, DKNY and DIESEL watches, licensed watch sales increased to 25% of consolidated sales in 2003 compared to 21% in 2002. The retail price points of these aspirational brands are generally higher than the related retail prices of the Companys proprietary brands allowing the Company to experience higher sales and gross profit margins per unit. In January, the Company completed the consolidation of its North American distribution/warehouse operations into its state of the art 500,000 square foot distribution center located in Dallas. In July, the Company put into service a new enterprise resource planning system, SAP, for its North American operations. The Company anticipates converting all of its subsidiaries systems to SAP over the next several years. Implementation of SAP in Germany commenced during the fourth quarter and the Company expects the European phase of its global implementation to be complete by the end of 2005 or early 2006. In September, the Company moved into its new 100,000 square foot European distribution facility located in Germany. The Company believes consolidation of existing distribution facilities in France, Italy, Switzerland and the UK into its new European distribution facility will be completed over the next several years. The Companys operating margin for 2003 was 14.1% and managements goal is to reach 17% over the next few years. During the second half of 2003, the Companys sales growth and increasing gross profit margin resulted in increased operating margins over the comparable prior year period. The Company believes this to be a significant achievement given its continued investment in new business initiatives, including technology products, Swiss watches and jewelry, as well as infrastructure additions, including new distribution facilities and SAP, to support its future growth prospects. During 2003, the Companys retail stores experienced same store sales comps in excess of 10%. This sales growth, combined with higher gross profit margins and lower operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, resulted in operating income growth of approximately $11 million in 2003 over 2002. 26 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of the Companys net sales represented by certain line items from the Companys consolidated statements of income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the years indicated. Fiscal Year 2003 Percentage change from 2002 2002 Percentage change from 2001 2001 Net sales 100.0 % 17.8 % 100.0 % 21.6 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 48.6 15.4 49.6 20.3 50.2 Gross profit 51.4 20.1 50.4 22.9 49.8 Operating expenses 37.3 22.5 35.9 22.1 35.7 Operating income 14.1 14.4 14.5 24.8 14.1 Interest expense (42.1 ) (66.4 ) 0.1 Other (expense) income net (239.1 ) 104.2 (0.7 ) Income before income taxes 14.1 14.1 14.5 31.8 13.3 Provision for income taxes 5.3 11.0 5.6 27.3 5.3 Net income 8.8 % 16.0 % 8.9 % 34.9 % 8.0 % The following table sets forth certain components of the Companys consolidated net sales and the percentage relationship of the components to consolidated net sales for the fiscal year indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 International: Europe $ 258.1 $ 189.4 $ 130.3 33.1 % 28.6 % 23.9 % Other 82.0 63.6 56.1 10.5 9.6 10.3 Total international 340.1 253.0 186.4 43.6 38.2 34.2 Domestic: Watch products 205.7 200.9 180.6 26.3 30.3 33.1 Other products 131.3 126.3 110.3 16.8 19.0 20.2 Total domestic 337.0 327.2 290.9 43.1 49.3 53.3 Stores worldwide 104.1 83.1 68.2 13.3 12.5 12.5 Total net sales $ 781.2 $ 663.3 $ 545.5 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 27  FISCAL 2003 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2002 NET SALES The following table is intended to illustrate a tabular analysis of the year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe 19 % 2 % 15 % 36 % Other international 5 9 15 29 Domestic wholesale 3 3 Retail worldwide 1 5 19 25 Total 6 % 2 % 10 % 18 % International Net Sales. European sales growth was driven by sales volume increases in FOSSIL, DIESEL and DKNY watches and FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry. Growth from other international sales, that include the Companys Canada and Far East distribution businesses and export sales from the U.S., was led by sales volume increases in FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI and DIESEL watch businesses. The Company believes it maintains a competitive advantage as a result of its long term relationships and strength of its business with its retailers throughout the international marketplace. The Company further believes its impressive portfolio of global watch brands and its ability to acquire additional brands position it for further penetration internationally as it continues to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands. The Company believes these brands do not have the marketing strength, distribution network or the global brand recognition in comparison to the brands included in the Companys watch portfolio. Additionally, the Company anticipates the recent additions of Swiss made BURBERRY and ZODIAC watches and EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry will further advance its product offering and allow for long term leverage of its existing distribution infrastructure outside the U.S. further strengthening its competitive advantage. Management believes its international businesses will continue to contribute significant double digit sales increases in 2004, assuming the U.S. dollar does not fall substantially below a translation rate to the Euro of $1.25 to 1.00 Euro. Domestic Net Sales. Domestic watch sales increased 2.4% primarily as a result of a 5.5% increase in sales of FOSSIL watches and a 17.3% increase in sales of licensed brand watches. These sales gains were partially offset by decreases in RELIC watches and by the discontinuance of the EDDIE BAUER private label watch line. Management believes it can gain additional market share for FOSSIL and its other watch brands in the U.S. market by expanding door growth for certain brands that it believes are under penetrated by utilizing the talent of its broad based design group and exploiting the speed of its supply chain that allows for quicker response to changes in fashion trends than its competitors. Domestic sales of the Companys accessory and sunglass businesses rose 4.0% with particular strength in RELIC accessories, FOSSIL mens leather and FOSSIL sunglasses. Excluding RELIC eyewear that experienced a decrease in sales volume in 2003 due to the loss of a sizeable portion of a significant customers business, domestic sales of the Companys accessory and sunglass businesses increased 9.0%. FOSSIL watches and accessories continue to be a leading supplier to U.S. department and specialty retail stores. Moreover, management believes Swiss made BURBERY and ZODIAC watches and EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry will allow the Company to expand into additional distribution channels in the U.S., primarily specialty watch and jewelry stores during 2004 and beyond. Management believes sales growth for its domestic wholesale businesses to be in the mid to high single digit range for 2004. Company Owned Retail Stores Net Sales. Sales from Company owned retail stores worldwide increased 25.3% during the year as a result of a 14.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comp store sales gains of 10.6%. Management believes its double digit 28 comp store growth during the year was attributable to better in store merchandising and visual presentation and lower quantities of discounted merchandise available in comparison to the prior year that resulted in higher average selling prices during 2003. The Company operated 119 stores at the end of the year, consisting of 53 outlet, 26 accessory and 18 jeanswear stores in the United States and 22 stores located outside the United States. This compares to 104 stores at the end of the prior year; 47 outlet, 23 accessory and 18 jeanswear in the United States and 16 stores located outside the United States. The Company opened 17 new stores during the year, including six stores acquired in Europe, and closed two stores. Management expects 12 to 16 new stores will be opened in 2004 with at least one half of these new store openings planned to be outlet concepts. Based upon planned new door openings and continued positive comp store sales growth, management believes retail stores net sales growth will exceed 15% in 2004. A store is included in comp store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comp store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comp store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin increased to 51.4% compared to 50.4% in the prior year. This margin expansion can be attributed primarily to (i) increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from the Companys international businesses, Company owned retail stores and licensed watch products; and (ii) higher international gross profit margin due to stronger foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. Sales from the Companys international businesses, Company owned retail stores and licensed products generally provide gross profit margins in excess of the Companys historical consolidated gross profit margin. Gross profit margins generated from the Companys international businesses are historically higher than those experienced in the U.S. mainly due to higher average wholesale prices charged for watch products internationally and the general absence of lower margin accessory businesses offered outside the U.S. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin increases, were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from RELIC accessory products that generally provide gross profit margin below the Companys historical consolidated gross profit margin. Management believes 2004 gross profit margin will be favorably impacted since sales from its international businesses and Company owned retail stores are forecasted to increase at a faster rate than the Companys total sales. Additionally, assuming the U.S. dollar does not fall substantially below a translation rate to the Euro of $1.25 to 1.0 Euro, the Company believes gross profit margin for 2004 could increase 50 to 75 basis points. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $53 million during 2003 and, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 37.3% during 2003 compared to 35.9% for the prior year. Included in 2003 operating expenses is approximately $13 million in additional costs related to the translation impact of stronger foreign currencies into U.S. dollars and approximately $7 million related to operating expenses of businesses acquired in 2002. The remaining $33 million increase in operating expenses during 2003 primarily reflects increases in (i) personnel and other costs associated with new business initiatives primarily related to the Companys Swiss watch, EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry and tech watch businesses for which there have been minimal revenue contributions to date, (ii) advertising costs, and (iii) depreciation and amortization expense. For the year, total advertising expense increased $11.0 million to 7.1% of net sales compared to 6.7% of net sales in 2002. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.8 million due to completion of the first phase of the Companys SAP global software implementation in July 2003 as well as other capital additions made during 2003. Management anticipates 2004 operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, to decrease slightly from the levels experienced in 2003, assuming increased revenue contributions from the new business initiatives and non recurrence of certain new product launch costs incurred during 2003. Since the Companys sales are more heavily weighted toward the second half of the year, management expects operating expenses as a percentage of sales to be equal to or slightly greater than the prior year during the first six months of 2004 and slightly less than the prior year during the second six months of the year. 29 Operating Income. Increased operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, were partially offset by improved gross profit margins resulting in operating profit margin of 14.1% of net sales compared to 14.5% of net sales in 2002. Operating income for the year included approximately $15 million of additional income as a result of the effects of stronger foreign currencies. Management believes operating margin for 2004 could expand by 50 to 100 basis points, based on assumptions discussed above. Operating profit margin during the first half of 2004 could be slightly below this range, while operating margin in the second half of the year could approach, or slightly exceed, the high end of the range. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, royalty income, foreign currency transaction gains (losses), minority interest expense of the Companys majority owned consolidated subsidiaries and equity in the earnings of its non consolidated joint venture. During 2003, other income (expense) decreased unfavorably by approximately $300,000. The decrease was primarily a result of increased minority interest expense and legal expenses related to enforcing the Companys intellectual property rights offset by increased foreign currency transaction gains and increased interest income due to higher levels of invested cash balances maintained during 2003. Income Taxes. The Companys effective income tax rate decreased to 37.6% during 2003 compared to 38.6% in the prior year. This decrease was primarily related to a higher mix of income generated from countries whose statutory income tax rates are lower than the Companys historical average income tax rate. Management believes this trend in its mix of income will continue, and as a result, expects its income tax rate to decrease slightly in 2004. FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001 Net Sales. Net sales increased 22% for the year (19% excluding currency gains). This increase was led by strong sales volume growth in the Companys international businesses, primarily from Europe which experienced a 45% increase (36% excluding currency gains). The Company believes its strategy of utilizing its impressive portfolio of watch brands continues to position it for further market penetration in Europe and the Far East. Also, the Company believes the addition of Swiss made BURBERRY and ZODIAC watches and EMPORIO ARMANI jewelry will further advance its product offerings and allow for long term leverage of its existing distribution infrastructure inside and outside the U.S. Businesses acquired in Switzerland, Canada and Japan contributed approximately $6.7 million to international sales. In the U.S., sales from the Companys domestic wholesale businesses grew 12% as a result of further expansion of RELIC accessories, significant growth in licensed watch sales and solid growth in FOSSIL watches and accessories. Market expansion of RELIC handbags, small leather goods and sunglasses in the national department store channel accelerated beyond the launch of these product categories in 2001. Licensed watch sales growth in 2002 benefited from the launch of the COLUMBIA brand and further market penetration in DIESEL, EMPORIO ARMANI and DKNY. FOSSIL watches grew market share in the U.S. during 2002 and further expanded its leading fashion watch position in department and selected specialty stores. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin increased to 50.4% compared to 49.8% in the prior year. This increase is attributed to increased sales mix from the Companys international businesses and licensed watches as a percentage of total sales. International sales and licensed watch sales grew to approximately 38% and 21% of total sales during 2002, respectively, as compared to 34% and 17.5% during 2001, respectively. Both international and licensed watch sales generally provide gross margins in excess of the Companys historical consolidated gross profit margin. Additionally, gross profit margin was favorably impacted from a lower sales mix of accessory products that generally provide gross profit margins below the Companys historical consolidated gross profit margin. A stronger Euro during 2002 compared to the prior year slightly benefited gross profit margin. 30 Operating Expenses. Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 35.9% compared to 35.7% for the prior year. The $43 million increase in operating expenses primarily reflects increased variable costs to support sales growth, as well as higher distribution costs relating to the Companys new distribution facility, increased payroll cost, increased advertising expenditures, operating expenses related to acquired businesses and higher costs in Europe due to the effects of a stronger Euro. The increase in payroll and advertising costs is primarily associated with new business initiatives, including Swiss made watches, jewelry and new technology products. Operating Income. Increased sales and improved gross profit margin more than offset increases in operating expenses for the year. As a result, the Companys operating profit margin increased to 14.5% from 14.1% in the prior year. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, royalty income, minority interests in the earnings (loss) of the Companys majority owned subsidiaries and equity in the earnings (losses) of its non consolidated joint venture. During 2002, other income (expense) decreased unfavorably by approximately $900,000 primarily as a result of reduced interest income due to lower yields on invested cash balances and the effects of a $500,000 legal settlement received by the Company in the prior year. Income Taxes. The Companys effective income tax rate decreased to 38.6% during 2002 compared to 40% in the prior year. This decrease was primarily related to a higher mix of income generated from countries whose statutory income tax rates are lower than the Companys historical average income tax rate. EFFECTS OF INFLATION Management does not believe that inflation has had a material impact on results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on the Company and the industry. Management believes that, to the extent inflation affects its costs in the future, the Company could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Companys general business operations historically have not required substantial cash needs during the first several months of its fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, the Companys cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching its peak in the September November time frame. The Companys cash holdings and short term marketable securities as of year end increased to $164 million in comparison to $118 million at the end of the prior year. This $46 million increase in cash flow is primarily derived from $74 million of net cash generated from operating activities offset by $31 million used in investing activities, primarily related to $29 million in additions to property plant and equipment and $7 million used in financing activities, primarily related to amounts associated with repurchases and retirements of Common Stock, offset by proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of stock options. Accounts receivable increased to $122 million at year end compared to $86 million at January 4, 2003. Days sales outstanding increased to 43 days for the year compared to 37 days in the prior year. The majority of this increase was attributable to an increase in the Companys collection cycle and currency translation effects. The collection cycle has increased as a result of a larger percentage of international sales, which historically have longer collection periods than those experienced in the U.S. Inventory at year end was current and on plan at $127 million, an increase of 4.1% compared to prior year inventory of $122 million, and well below the rate of the Companys net sales growth. At the end of the year, the Company had working capital of $314 million compared to working capital of $241 million at the end of the prior year. The Company had approximately $2.8 million of outstanding borrowings against its combined $43 million short term bank credit facility at the end of 31 the year. Management believes that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand and amounts available under its credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy the cash requirements of its working capital needs for at least the next eighteen months. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS For disclosure regarding the Companys contractual obligations, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. The Company has no unconsolidated off balance sheet arrangements or material purchase obligations. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from the unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Fiscal Year 2003 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 169,767 $ 159,593 $ 192,616 $ 259,199 Gross profit 85,616 81,868 96,976 136,917 Operating expenses 65,794 65,670 69,592 90,571 Operating income 19,822 16,198 27,384 46,346 Income before income taxes 19,585 16,706 27,183 45,997 Provision for income taxes 7,442 6,317 10,383 16,994 Net income 12,143 10,389 16,800 29,003 Earnings per share: Basic 0.26 0.22 0.36 0.62 Diluted 0.25 0.21 0.34 0.59 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 50.4 % 51.3 % 50.3 % 52.8 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 38.8 % 41.1 % 36.1 % 34.9 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 11.7 % 10.1 % 14.2 % 17.9 % Fiscal Year 2002 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 143,680 $ 142,460 $ 164,821 $ 212,377 Gross profit 71,492 71,475 81,579 109,539 Operating expenses 52,229 55,306 58,419 72,201 Operating income 19,263 16,169 23,160 37,338 Income before income taxes 19,367 15,962 23,112 37,538 Provision for income taxes 7,552 6,224 9,015 14,281 Net income 11,815 9,738 14,097 23,257 Earnings per share: Basic 0.26 0.21 0.31 0.50 Diluted 0.25 0.20 0.29 0.48 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 49.8 % 50.2 % 49.5 % 51.6 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 36.4 % 38.8 % 35.4 % 34.0 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 13.4 % 11.3 % 14.1 % 17.6 % 32 While the majority of the Companys products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of the Companys net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. The Companys fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas season, generated in excess of 40% of the Companys annual operating income for 2003. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond the Companys control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on the Companys net sales and operating income in the first quarter as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. Management currently believes that the Companys inventory levels at its major customers at the end of 2003 were at or near retailers target inventory levels. Increasing the number of Company owned stores would generally amplify the Companys seasonality by decreasing the Companys operating income in the first half of the year while increasing operating income during the second half of the year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by the Company.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK As a multinational enterprise, the Company is exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company views this risk as relating primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. The Company employs a variety of practices to manage this market risk, including its operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments. Forward contracts have been utilized by the Company to mitigate a significant portion of its foreign currency risk related to expected payments of certain intercompany balances as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. The Companys most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro and the British Pound. The Company uses derivative financial instruments only for risk management purposes and does not use them for speculation or for trading. Use of these derivatives will generally limit the Companys ability to benefit fully from a weak U.S. dollar but will also lessen the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar. There were no significant changes in how the Company managed foreign currency transactional exposure during 2003 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposure or in the strategies it employs to manage such exposure in the near future. 33   
 
