Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "may," "believes," "expects," "plans," "intends," "anticipates" and similar expressions identify forward looking statements. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including those discussed below. Accordingly, readers of the Annual Report should consider 18 these facts in evaluating the information and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences in a timely manner while preserving the authenticity and quality of our brands. Although we attempt to stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and fashion trends affecting accessories and apparel, any failure by us to identify and respond to such trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our existing brand names and product lines, which in turn could adversely affect sales of our products. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products. Our success also depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products, or if our competitors introduce superior products, customers may purchase certain products we produce from our competitors, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings, and new products introduced by us may not achieve consumer acceptance comparable to that of our existing product lines. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products, or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brands. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our revenues and market share. The effects of economic cycles, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war and military action both in the United States and 19 abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to procure our products from manufacturers for sale to our customers. Any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on consumer purchases of our products. Seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal cycles, the timing of new product introductions, the timing of orders by our customers and the mix of product sales demand. Our business is seasonal by nature. A significant portion of our net sales and operating income are generated during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, which includes the Christmas season. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the fourth quarter depends upon the anticipated level of retail sales during the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In addition, the amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter depends in part upon the actual level of retail sales during the Christmas season. The seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income during the first and fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. The loss of any of our license agreements, pursuant to which a number of our products are produced, may result in the loss of significant revenues and may adversely affect our business. A portion of our growth in sales and net income is, and is expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of products produced under license agreements with third parties. Under these license agreements, we generally have the right to produce, market and distribute certain products utilizing the brand names of other companies. We sell products under certain licensed brands, including: ADIDAS, EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DIESEL, DKNY, MARC JACOBS and MICHAEL Michael Kors. Sales of our licensed products amounted to 26.7% of our sales for fiscal year 2005, with certain license agreements accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. Our material license agreements have various expiration dates between 2007 and 2012. In addition, certain license agreements may require us to make minimum royalty payments, subject us to restrictive covenants or require us to comply with certain other obligations and may be terminated by the licensor if these or other conditions are not met or upon certain events. We may not be able to continue to meet our obligations or fulfill the conditions under these agreements in the future. In addition, we may be unable to renew our existing license agreements beyond the current term or obtain new license agreements to replace any lost license agreements on similar economic terms or at all. The failure by us to maintain or renew one or more of our existing material license agreements could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 20 Our license agreements may require minimum royalty commitments regardless of the level of product sales under these agreements. With respect to our license agreements, we have in the past experienced, and could again in the future experience, instances where minimum royalty commitments under these agreements exceeded royalties payable based upon our sales of such licensed products. We incurred royalty expense of approximately $34.6 million, $32.9 million and $26.4 million in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We also have several agreements in effect at the end of fiscal year 2005 which expire on various dates from December 2007 through December 2012 that require us to pay royalties ranging from 3% to 20% of defined net sales. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delay and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials used by us in our products, or used by our third party manufacturers, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or ability to meet our customers demands. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs and weather conditions. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to our customers. We rely on third party manufacturers and problems with, or loss of, our suppliers or raw materials could harm our business and results of operations. All of our apparel, jewelry and leather goods and certain of our watch products are produced by independent manufacturers. We do not have long term contracts with these manufacturers. In addition, we face the risk that these third party manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis, or at all. As a result, we cannot be certain that these manufacturers will continue to manufacture products for us or that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages for certain products and harm our business. Access to suppliers that are not Fossil subsidiaries is not guaranteed because we do not maintain long term contracts but instead rely on long standing business relationships, which may not continue in the future. A majority of our watch products are currently sourced or manufactured to our specifications by four factories located in China and Hong Kong, which are either wholly owned or majority owned by us, and, to a lesser extent, by owned or independent manufacturers in China, Hong Kong and Switzerland. Certain of our other products are currently manufactured to our specifications by independent manufacturers in international locations, including China, Hong Kong, Italy, Korea, Mexico and Taiwan. We have no long term contracts with these independent manufacturing sources and compete with other companies for production facilities. All transactions between us and our independent manufacturing sources are conducted on the basis of purchase orders. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain close relationships with our current suppliers and to develop long term relationships with other suppliers that satisfy our requirements for price, quality and production flexibility. 21 If an independent manufacturer or license partner of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. We have no control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers, or by one of our license partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturers or license partners labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or country in which the violation or divergence occurred, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers be found in violation of state or international labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. We extend unsecured credit to our customers and are therefore vulnerable to any financial difficulties they may face. We sell our merchandise primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide. We extend credit based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Should any of our larger customers experience financial difficulties, we could curtail business with such customers or assume more credit risk relating to such customers receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable relating to such customers could have a material adverse effect on the amount of revenues that we receive. We do not maintain long term contracts with our customers and are unable to control their purchasing decisions. We do not maintain long term purchasing contracts with our customers and therefore have no contractual leverage over their purchasing decisions. A decision by a major department store or other significant customer to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating strategy. Our ability to continue our sales growth is dependent upon the implementation of our growth strategy, which we may not be able to achieve. During recent years, we have experienced rapid and substantial growth in sales. Our ability to continue this growth is dependent on the successful implementation of our business strategy. This includes diversification of our product offerings, expansion of our company owned Fossil retail and outlet locations and certain strategic acquisitions. If we are not successful in the expansion of our product offerings or our new products are not profitable or do not generate sales comparable to those of our existing businesses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Another element of our business strategy is to place increased emphasis on growth in selected international markets. If our brand names and products do not achieve a high degree of consumer acceptance in these markets, our revenues could be adversely affected. We also operate stores under the FOSSIL brand and have historically expanded our company owned FOSSIL retail and outlet locations to further strengthen our brand image. As of December 31, 2005, we operated 171 stores, with a majority of the stores located in the United States. The costs associated with leasehold improvements to current stores and the costs associated with opening new stores could materially increase our costs of operation, particularly if we decide to open more stores on a yearly basis than our historical averages. We could be negatively impacted if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. As part of our growth strategy, we have made certain acquisitions, domestically and internationally, including acquisitions of FOSSIL stores operated under license agreements, acquisitions of certain 22 watch brands, and acquisitions of independent distributors of our products. The integration of these and future acquisitions may not be successful or generate sales increases. When we have acquired businesses, we have acquired businesses that we believe could enhance our business opportunities and our growth prospects. All acquisitions involve risks that could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. These risks include: distracting management from our business operations; losing key personnel and other employees; costs, delays, and inefficiencies associated with integrating acquired operations and personnel; the impairment of acquired assets and goodwill; and acquiring the contingent and other liabilities of the businesses we acquire. In addition, acquired businesses may not provide us with increased business opportunities, or result in the growth that we anticipate. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations is a complex, time consuming, and expensive process. Combining acquired operations with us may result in lower overall operating margins, greater stock price volatility, and quarterly earnings fluctuations. Cultural incompatibilities, career uncertainties, and other factors associated with such acquisitions may also result in the loss of employees. Failure to acquire and successfully integrate complementary practices, or failure to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our competitors are established companies that have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including design and distribution. There is intense competition in each of the businesses in which we compete. Our moderately priced watch business competes with a number of established manufacturers, importers and distributors such as Guess?, Anne Klein II, Kenneth Cole and Swatch. Our fine premium branded and designer watch business competes with a number of established manufacturers, importers and distributors such as Gucci, Rado, Raymond Weil, Seiko and Swiss Army. In addition, our leather goods, sunglass, jewelry and apparel businesses compete with a large number of established companies that have significantly greater experience than us in designing, developing, marketing and distributing such products. In all of our businesses, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors who may have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than us. Our competitors include distributors that import watches, accessories and apparel from abroad, domestic companies that have established foreign manufacturing relationships and companies that produce accessories and apparel domestically. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely affected by our competitors and their competitive pressures in the watch, fashion accessory and apparel industries. We have key facilities in the United States and overseas, the loss or regulation of any of which could harm our business. Our administrative and distribution operations in the United States are conducted primarily from four separate facilities located in the Dallas, Texas area. Our operations internationally are conducted from various administrative, distribution and manufacturing facilities outside of the United States, particularly in Germany, Hong Kong and Switzerland. The complete or temporary loss of use of all or part of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our warehouse and distribution facilities in Dallas and Richardson, Texas are operated in a special purpose subzone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board. Although the subzone allows us certain tax advantages, the subzone is highly regulated by the U.S. 23 Customs Service. This level of regulation may cause disruptions or delays in the distribution of our products out of these facilities. Under some circumstances, the U.S. Customs Service has the right to shut down the entire subzone and, therefore, our entire warehouse and distribution facilities. During the time that the subzone is shut down, we may be unable to meet adequately the supply requests of our customers and our retail locations, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, relationships with our customers, and results of operation, especially if the shut down were to occur during our third or fourth quarter. Our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system could disrupt our computer system and divert management time. We have recently implemented an enterprise resource planning system from SAP AG, a German software company. Over the next few years, we intend to replace our existing enterprise resource planning systems and other principal financial systems with software systems provided by SAP AG. We implemented the new enterprise resource planning system in our U.S., Canada, Germany and France locations and over the next few years intend to replace our existing enterprise resource planning systems and principal financial systems at certain of our international subsidiaries with software systems provided by SAP AG. Our current expansion plans may place significant strain on our management, working capital, financial and management control systems and staff. The failure to maintain or upgrade financial and management control systems, to recruit additional staff or to respond effectively to difficulties encountered during expansion could have a material adverse effect on our ability to respond to trends in our target markets, market our products and meet customer deadlines. The sustained disruption or failure of our systems due to force majeure or as part of an upgrade, conversion or other systems maintenance could result in the same adverse effects. Changes in the mix of product sales demand could negatively impact our gross profit margins. Our gross profit margins are impacted by our sales mix. Both international and licensed watch sales generally provide gross margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margin, while accessory products generally provide gross profit margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margin. If future sales from our international businesses and licensed watch businesses do not increase at a faster rate than our domestic accessory business, our gross profit margins may grow at a slower pace, cease to grow, or decrease relative to our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Our industry is subject to pricing pressures that may adversely impact our financial performance. We manufacture many of our products offshore because such products generally cost less to make, primarily because labor costs are lower. Many of our competitors also source their product requirements offshore to achieve lower costs, possibly in locations with lower costs than our offshore operations, and those competitors may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry wide pricing pressures. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if: we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our production costs; or our production costs increase and we cannot increase our prices. Our failure or inability to protect or enforce our intellectual property may harm our business. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We are devoted to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in those countries where we believe it is important to our ability to sell our products. However, we cannot be certain that the actions we have taken will result in enforceable rights, will be adequate to protect our products in every country where we may want to sell 24 our products, will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to prevent sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights of others. The inability or failure to obtain trademark, patent or other intellectual property rights could materially harm our business. Additionally, we rely on the patent, trademark and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. Even if we are successful in obtaining appropriate trademark, patent and other intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Because we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in Hong Kong and China, we are significantly dependent on foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. Further, if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. An increase in product returns could negatively impact our operating results. We recognize revenues as sales when merchandise is shipped and title transfers to the customer. We permit the return of damaged or defective products and accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. Accordingly, we provide allowances for the estimated amounts of these returns at the time of revenue recognition based on historical experience. Any significant increase in product damages or defects and the resulting credit returns could have a material adverse impact on our operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the 25 design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs, and affect how our stock trades. This could in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. Factors Relating to Our International Operations Factors affecting international commerce and our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from outside of the United States, and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations could account for an increasingly larger portion of our revenues. Our international operations are directly related to, and dependent on, the volume of international trade and foreign market conditions. International commerce and our international operations are subject to many risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below, including: recessions in foreign economies; the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions; limitations on repatriation of earnings; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries; longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing foreign operations; social, political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; our ability to finance foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; and U.S. government licensing requirements for exports. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected regions and decrease the profitability of our international operations, which may seriously harm our financial condition. 26 We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in certain international markets. We sell our products in certain international markets mainly through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in, and a resulting loss of, sales. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source a significant amount of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products purchased by our subsidiaries may be affected by changes in the value of the currencies, including the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, Euro, Japanese Yen, Malaysian Ringgit and Singapore Dollar. Due to our dependence on manufacturing operations in China, changes in the value of the Chinese Yuan may have a material impact on our supply channels and our manufacturing costs, including component and assembly costs. Changes in the currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Although we utilize forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risks (mostly relating to the Euro and the British Pound), if we are unsuccessful in mitigating these risks, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations. Because we are dependent on foreign manufacturing we are vulnerable to changes in economic and social conditions in Asia and disruptions in international travel and shipping. Because a substantial portion of our watches and certain of our handbags, sunglasses and other products are manufactured in Hong Kong and China, our success will depend to a significant extent upon future economic and social conditions existing in Hong Kong and China. If the manufacturing sources in Hong Kong and China were disrupted for any reason, we would need to arrange for the manufacture and shipment of products by alternative sources. Because the establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery, we are unable to predict whether such relationships would be on terms that we regard as satisfactory. Any significant disruption in our relationships with our manufacturing sources located in Hong Kong and China would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. Restrictions on travel to and from these and other regions, similar to those imposed during the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome in 2003, commonly known as SARS, and any delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products on account of SARS or other syndromes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer deadlines and timely distribute our products in order to match consumer tastes. Risks associated with foreign government regulations and U.S. trade policy may affect our foreign operations and sourcing. Our businesses are subject to risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulation in the countries in which our manufacturing sources are located, primarily Hong Kong and other parts of China. While we have not experienced any material issues with foreign governmental regulations that would impact our arrangements with our foreign manufacturing sources, we believe that this issue is of particular concern with regard to China due to the less mature nature of the Chinese market economy and the historical involvement of the Chinese government in industry. If regulation were to render the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impracticable, or if our current foreign manufacturing sources were for any other reason to cease doing business with us, such a development could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and on our supply, manufacturing and distribution channels. 27 Our business is also subject to the risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other charges or restrictions on imports, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. and foreign customs quotas, duties (including antidumping or countervailing duties), tariffs, taxes or other charges or restrictions, requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future or adversely modified, or what effect such actions would have on our costs of operations. For example, our products imported to the United States are subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of our business, we may from time to time be subject to claims by the U.S. Customs Service for duties and other charges. Factors that may influence the modification or imposition of these restrictions include the determination by the U.S. Trade Representative that a country has denied adequate intellectual property rights or fair and equitable market access to U.S. firms that rely on intellectual property, trade disputes between the United States and a country that leads to withdrawal of "most favored nation" status for that country and economic and political changes within a country that are viewed unfavorably by the U.S. government. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to: quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the countries where our apparel producing facilities are located and foreign countries; and customs duties imposed by the governments where our apparel producing facilities are located on imported products, including raw materials. Our apparel producing operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization, referred to as the WTO. Generally, such trade agreements benefit our apparel business by reducing or eliminating the duties and or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country. However, trade agreements can also impose requirements that negatively impact our apparel business, such as limiting the countries from which we can purchase raw materials and setting quotas on products that may be imported into the United States from a particular country. In addition, the WTO may commence a new round of trade negotiations that liberalize textile trade. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Many factors may cause our net revenues, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate and possibly decline which may result in declines in our stock price. Our net revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors may include, but may not be limited to, the following: fluctuations in market demand for our products; increased competition and pricing pressures; our ability to anticipate changing customer demands and preferences; our failure to efficiently manage our inventory levels; our inability to manage and maintain our debt obligations; 28 seasonality in our business; changes in our, and our competitors, business strategy or pricing; the timing of certain general and administrative expenses; completing acquisitions and the costs of integrating acquired operations; international currency fluctuations, operating challenges and trade regulations; acts of terrorism or acts of war; and government regulation. One or more of the foregoing factors, as well as any other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, may cause our operating expenses to be unexpectedly high or result in a decrease in our revenue during any given period. If these or any other variables or unknowns were to cause a shortfall in revenues or earnings, an increase in our operating costs or otherwise cause a failure to meet public market expectations, our stock price may decline and our business could be adversely affected. Two principal stockholders own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis, our President and CEO, and Mr. Tom Kartsotis, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, each own a substantial amount of our common stock. As a result, they are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of elections of our directors, the adoption, amendment or repeal of our bylaws and any other actions requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders, and to otherwise influence our affairs. Our organizational documents contain anti takeover provisions that could discourage a proposal for a takeover of us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a proposal for a takeover of us. These include a provision in our certificate of incorporation authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock, the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year, provisions in our bylaws establishing advance notice procedures with respect to certain stockholder proposals, and provisions requiring that action taken to remove a director without cause be approved either by an 80% vote of the Board of Directors or an 80% vote of the stockholders. Our bylaws may be amended by a vote of 80% of the Board of Directors, subject to repeal by a vote of 80% of the stockholders. In addition, Delaware law limits the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in certain business combinations with interested stockholders. Finally, Messrs. Kartsotis have the ability, by virtue of their stock ownership, to significantly influence a vote regarding a change in control of us. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis each own a substantial amount of our common stock. The shares beneficially owned by Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis may be sold in the open market in the future, subject to any volume restrictions and other limitations under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 144 thereunder. We may also decide to file a registration statement enabling Messrs. Kartsotis to sell additional shares. Any sales by Messrs. Kartsotis of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of their shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales could 29 occur. These sales or the possibility that they may occur also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds in any equity offering in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.  Item 2. Properties Company Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2005, we owned or leased the following material facilities in connection with our domestic and international operations: Location Use Square Footage Owned / Leased Richardson, Texas Corporate headquarters 190,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Warehouse and distribution 138,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Office 131,541 Owned Dallas, Texas Office, warehouse and distribution 517,500 Owned Eggst&auml;tt, Germany Office, warehouse and distribution 230,000 Owned New York, New York General office and showroom 26,552 Lease expiring in 2016 China Manufacturing 60,000 Lease expiring in 2010 China Manufacturing 110,231 Lease expiring in 2008 China Manufacturing 34,000 Lease expiring in 2011 We also lease certain manufacturing and or office, warehouse and or distribution facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Los Angeles, California; Miami, Florida; Switzerland; Sweden; Taiwan; Hong Kong; Malaysia; the United Kingdom; Australia; Japan and Italy and own an office, warehouse and watch repair facility in France. Apparel Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2005, we had entered into 30 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of our apparel line and certain of our accessory products, which includes one lease for one new store that is scheduled to open in fiscal year 2006. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2015. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. Accessory Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2005, we had entered into 42 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of our full assortment of accessory products, which include leases for four new stores, three of which are our Modern Watch stores, that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2006. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2006 to 2015. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. Outlet Store Facilities. We also lease retail space at selected outlet centers throughout the United States for the sale of our products. As of the end of fiscal year 2005, we had entered into 75 such leases, which include leases for four new stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2006. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2006 to 2015, and provide for minimum annual rentals and for the payment of additional rent based on a percentage of sales above specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs at each outlet center, including, real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. 30 International Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2005, we operated 32 retail stores, including four multi brand stores in Switzerland and one outlet store, in various international markets, including the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, Singapore and Australia. We believe that our existing facilities are well maintained and in good operating condition.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings There are no legal proceedings to which we are a party or to which our properties are subject, other than routine litigation incident to our business, which is not material to our consolidated financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matter was submitted to a vote of our stockholders during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005. 31   PART II  Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "FOSL." Quotation of our Common Stock began on the Nasdaq National Market on April 8, 1993. The following table sets forth the range of quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our Common Stock on the Nasdaq National Market for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005. Such prices have been adjusted to reflect a three for two stock split of our Common Stock effected as a fifty percent (50%) stock dividend paid on April 8, 2004. High Low Fiscal year beginning January 2, 2005: First Quarter $ 28.950 $ 23.970 Second Quarter 25.910 18.900 Third Quarter 25.080 17.820 Fourth Quarter 22.090 14.960 Fiscal year beginning January 4, 2004: First Quarter $ 23.300 $ 17.680 Second Quarter 27.970 21.940 Third Quarter 32.370 21.750 Fourth Quarter 32.250 23.350 As of March 6, 2006, there were 161 holders of record, although we believe that the number of beneficial owners is much larger. Cash Dividend Policy. We did not pay any cash dividends in 2004 or 2005. We expect that we will retain all available earnings generated by our operations for the development and growth of our business and common stock buyback programs and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to a cash dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. 32 The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of us or any "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Rule 10b 18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), of our Common Stock during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased(1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs(2) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs(2) Month #1 (October 2, 2005 to October 29, 2005) N/A 677,673 Month #2 (October 30, 2005 to November 26, 2005) 700,000 $ 20.1049 700,000 3,477,673 Month #3 (November 27, 2005 to December 31, 2005) 2,546,602 $ 20.4360 2,546,602 1,433,771 Total 3,246,602 $ 20.3646 3,246,602 1,433,771 (1)No shares were purchased other than through publicly announced plans or programs as described below during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. (2)On May 13, 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a share repurchase program, pursuant to which up to 1,000,000 shares of our Common Stock may be repurchased. In addition, on November 8, 2005, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved an additional stock repurchase program, pursuant to which up to 3,500,000 additional shares of our Common Stock may be repurchased. The 3,500,000 share repurchase program was completed on January 17, 2006. On December 1, 2005, Mr. Kosta N. Kartsotis, who may be considered an "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Rule 10b 18 (a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), entered into a stock purchase trading plan which covered the purchase of up to 500,000 shares of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2005, 179,602 shares had been purchased pursuant to the plan. The plan was completed on February 24, 2006. The information under the heading "Equity Compensation Plan Information" in our proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this report, is incorporated into Item 12 of this report by reference. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities We had no sales of unregistered securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005. 33  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereon. Reclassification of certain prior years amounts have been made to conform to the 2005 presentation. Fiscal Year 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net Sales $ 1,040,468 $ 959,960 $ 781,175 $ 663,338 $ 545,541 Gross Profit 533,707 504,041 399,023 333,003 271,290 Operating Income 109,392 135,359 108,808 95,930 76,854 Income before taxes 103,564 141,102 109,471 95,979 72,804 Net income 78,059 90,569 68,335 58,907 43,683 (4) Earnings per share:(3) Basic 1.10 (1) 1.28 (2) 0.98 0.85 0.64 (4) Diluted 1.07 (1) 1.22 (2) 0.93 0.81 0.62 (4) Weighted average common and common equivalent shares outstanding:(3) Basic 70,834 70,672 69,817 68,990 67,877 Diluted 73,209 74,462 73,182 72,357 70,290 Working capital $ 320,069 $ 367,133 $ 313,561 $ 241,177 $ 163,280 Total assets 744,746 787,793 587,541 482,526 380,863 Long term debt Stockholders equity 526,149 524,000 423,426 340,541 264,023 Return on average stockholders equity 14.5 % 19.4 % 18.4 % 19.9 % 18.3 % (1)Includes a one time tax benefit of $12 million related to the repatriation of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Excluding this benefit, net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share would have been approximately $66 million, $0.93, and $0.90, respectively. (2)Includes one time after tax charges related to cumulative rent expense adjustments and settlement of a supplier claim of $2.0 million and $550,000 respectively. Excluding these one time charges, net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share were $93.1 million, $1.32 and $1.25, respectively. (3)All share and per share price data have been adjusted to reflect three for two stock splits effected in the form of stock dividends paid on June 7, 2002, and April 8, 2004. (4)Includes a $2.9 million one time after tax charge which reflects the write off of the carrying value of our investment in SII Marketing International, Inc. as a result of our decision to terminate our equity participation in this joint venture relationship. Excluding this one time charge, net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share were $46.5 million, $0.69 and $0.66, respectively.  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer products predicated on fashion and value. Since our inception in 1984, we have grown into a global watch and accessory company with a well recognized branded portfolio delivered over an extensive distribution network. Our principle offerings include an extensive line of watches sold under our proprietary brands as well as brands licensed from some of the most prestigious companies in the 34 world. We also offer complementary lines of small leather goods, belts, handbags and sunglasses under our proprietary FOSSIL and RELIC brands and jewelry under the FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI and MICHELE brands. In addition, beginning in March 2006, we plan to commence distribution of a line of fashion jewelry under the DIESEL brand. Our centralized infrastructure in design/development and production/sourcing allows us to leverage the strength of our branded watch and jewelry portfolio over an extensive global distribution network. Our products are sold primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of approximately 58 independent distributors. Our leather and sunglass products are primarily sold through U.S. department stores. Our foreign operations include wholly or majority owned subsidiaries in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. In addition, our products are offered at company owned retail locations, located in the United States and certain international markets, and authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks located in several major airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets. Our expansion of our product lines worldwide and leveraging of our infrastructure have contributed to our operating profits and increasing net sales. Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, long lived asset impairment and impairment of goodwill. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within managements expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. Any significant increase in returns based on poor performance and product damages or defects and the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value 35 based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than tradenames whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statements of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our company owned retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. Impairment of Goodwill and Tradenames. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the book value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies and market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the book value of the reporting unit, no impairment loss is recognized. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and 2004, we performed the required annual impairment test and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. We evaluate tradenames annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to the book value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005, we performed the required annual impairment test and determined that no tradename impairment existed. New Accounting Standards. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment ("SFAS 123R"), which replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, ("SFAS 123") and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. Under SFAS 123R, public companies will be required to measure the cost of services received in exchange for stock options and similar awards based on the grant date fair value of the award and recognize this cost in the income statement over the period during which an award recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition. Under SFAS 123R, we must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share based payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition method to be used at date of adoption. The transition methods include modified prospective and retroactive adoption options. We adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective method. Under this method, we will recognize compensation cost, on a prospective basis, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered as of January 1, 2006, based upon the grant date fair value of those awards calculated under SFAS 123 for pro forma disclosure purposes. We expect that the adoption of SFAS 123R will reduce our fiscal 2006 operating income by approximately $2.2 million based upon the number of unvested options at the beginning of the year excluding any that might be granted during 2006. Prior to the opening of the Nasdaq National Market on November 16, 2005, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved the accelerated vesting of all unvested and "out of the money" non qualified and incentive stock options previously awarded to current employees, including officers, during the period beginning on February 23, 2004 and ending on March 8, 2005 (the "Acceleration Period") under our 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan. Additionally, on November 30, 2005, our Board of Directors approved the accelerated vesting of all unvested and "out of the money" 36 non qualified stock options previously awarded to our nonemployee directors on January 1, 2005, under the 1993 Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan. The exercise prices for options granted during the Acceleration Period ranged from $19.13 to $30.22, with a weighted average exercise price of $22.77. The accelerated options represented approximately 84.3 percent of the total of all of our unvested outstanding options. As a result of these accelerations of employee and nonemployee director options, we expect to reduce the stock option expense that otherwise would be required to be recorded in connection with the accelerated options by approximately $15.1 million over the original option vesting period which includes fiscal years 2006 through 2010. The decision to accelerate the vesting of these employee and non employee director options, which our Compensation Committee and Board of Directors believes is in the best interest of the Company, our stockholders, and employees, was made primarily to reduce non cash compensation expense that would have been recorded in the income statement in future periods upon the adoption of SFAS 123R beginning in January 2006. In addition, because these options have exercise prices in excess of current market values, they are not fully achieving their original objectives of incentive compensation and employee and director retention. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs An Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 ("SFAS 151"). SFAS 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing ("ARB 43"), to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). Among other provisions, the new rule requires that items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion of "so abnormal" as stated in ARB 43. Additionally, SFAS 151 requires that the allocation of fixed production overhead to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. We adopted SFAS 151 beginning on January 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 151 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions ("SFAS 153"). SFAS 153 eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions, and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. SFAS 153 specifies that a nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The adoption of SFAS 153 on January 1, 2006, did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Assets Retirement Obligations An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, ("FIN 47"). FIN 47 requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liabilitys fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005 and therefore is applicable to the year ended December 31, 2005. The adoption of FIN 47 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. 37 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the years indicated. Fiscal Year 2005 Percentage change from 2004 2004 Percentage change from 2003 2003 Net sales 100.0 % 8.4 % 100.0 % 22.9 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 48.7 11.2 47.5 19.3 48.9 Gross profit 51.3 5.9 52.5 26.3 51.1 Operating expenses 40.8 15.1 38.4 27.0 37.2 Operating income 10.5 (19.2 ) 14.1 24.4 13.9 Interest expense Other (expense) income net (0.5 ) (195.5 ) 0.6 696.3 0.1 Income before income taxes 10.0 (26.6 ) 14.7 28.9 14.0 Income taxes 2.5 (49.5 ) 5.3 22.8 5.3 Net income 7.5 % (13.8 )% 9.4 % 32.5 % 8.7 % The following table sets forth certain components of our consolidated net sales and the percentage relationship of the components to consolidated net sales for the fiscal year indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 International: Europe $ 313.7 $ 306.9 $ 258.1 30.1 % 31.9 % 33.1 % Other 142.1 127.2 82.0 13.7 % 13.3 % 10.5 % Total international 455.8 434.1 340.1 43.8 % 45.2 % 43.6 % Domestic: Watch products 245.2 241.9 205.7 23.6 % 25.2 % 26.3 % Other products 184.5 153.8 131.3 17.7 % 16.0 % 16.8 % Total domestic 429.7 395.7 337.0 41.3 % 41.2 % 43.1 % Retail worldwide 155.0 130.2 104.1 14.9 % 13.6 % 13.3 % Total net sales $ 1,040.5 $ 960.0 $ 781.2 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 38 Fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 Net sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe (1 )% 1 % 2 % 2 % Other international 1 4 7 12 Domestic wholesale 2 7 9 Retail worldwide 19 19 Total % 2 % 7 % 8 % International Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. European sales growth was driven by sales volume increases in FOSSIL jewelry and DIESEL, DKNY and BURBERRY watches. These increases were partially offset by sales volume declines in FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI watches. The sales volume growth in FOSSIL jewelry was mainly attributable to further penetration of the line in Germany as well as recent expansion into new European markets, primarily Italy and the United Kingdom. Net sales increases in DIESEL, DKNY and BURBERRY watches were primarily related to further penetration within existing markets as these brands continue to gain recognition. FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI sales decreases are primarily the result of declines in the sales of core styles and weak consumer response to new styles launched during 2005 and our belief that the watch category in general experienced declines during 2005. Growth from other international sales, which include our Canada and Asia Pacific distribution businesses and export sales from the United States, was led by sales volume increases in our EMPORIO ARMANI, DIESEL and BURBERRY watch businesses primarily resulting from expansion of these brands into additional retail locations. Fiscal 2005 net sales growth in our other international segment was negatively impacted by an approximate $4.7 million prior year special market sale that occurred in 2004. We believe the global recognition of our branded portfolio of watches positions us as a significant resource to retailers throughout the international marketplace. Our strategy is not to force any one brand into a specific market, but rather allow the market to dictate which brands are important based upon consumer preference. We further believe our global distribution network and design and marketing capabilities will allow us to acquire additional brands that will position us for further penetration internationally as we continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands. As an example, we anticipate the launch of the newly acquired ADIDAS licensed watch business in early 2006 will further advance our product offering and allow for long term leverage of our existing distribution infrastructure outside the United States, further strengthening our competitive advantage. Furthermore, we believe our jewelry businesses, including FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI, MICHELE and soon to be launched DIESEL, will allow us to further leverage our customer base and infrastructure within the international markets. For 2006, assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar, our management believes the international segment will continue to grow with even more pronounced growth in the Asia Pacific markets due to the lower level of penetration we have in this region. Domestic Net Sales. Excluding the impact on sales growth attributable to acquisitions, domestic watch sales decreased 2.1% principally as a result of a 10% decline in FOSSIL watch sales and a 17.6% decline in RELIC watch sales. These decreases were partially offset by growth in our mass market business that launched in mid 2004. We believe that the decrease in sales of FOSSIL and RELIC 39 watches is primarily due to a cyclical shift in consumer discretionary spending patterns away from the watch category during 2005. Over the longer term, our management believes that consumer spending will cycle back to the fashion watch category and, until then, we will continue to review opportunities for category and brand expansion to gain further market share. The launch of the newly acquired ADIDAS licensed watch business in 2006 and continued growth from our MICHELE, ZODIAC and existing licensed watch brands will assist in advancing our domestic watch business. During 2005, domestic sales of our accessory and sunglass businesses rose 20% resulting from sales volume growth in FOSSIL womens and mens leather products as well as RELIC sunglasses. The womens handbag category was one of the benefactors of the shift in consumer discretionary spending in 2005 allowing us to not only experience increased sales in existing locations but also expand our presence in many other accessory product lines within the same customer base. We believe the growth of the FOSSIL brand presence within U.S. department stores, including watch, accessory and sunglass products, continues to position our company as a leading supplier to the distribution channel. While our management believes sales growth for our domestic wholesale watch businesses will continue to be difficult in 2006, we expect continued strength in the accessory business. Overall our management expects the domestic wholesale segment to experience mid single digit growth in 2006. Retail Worldwide Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 19.1% during the year as a result of a 20.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 1.1%. In comparison to the prior year, 2005 comparable store sales increases were negatively impacted by declines in our FOSSIL watch business which has historically accounted for approximately 60% to 65% of our overall retail store sales. Retail store sales were positively impacted by significant increases in sales from accessory products. We operated 171 stores at the end of the year consisting of 72 outlet and 99 full price stores, including 31 full price stores located outside the United States. This compares to 136 stores at the end of the prior year including 60 outlet and 76 full price stores, including 23 stores located outside the United States. We opened 38 new stores and closed 3 stores during the year. We are currently targeting 25 to 35 new store openings in 2006 that will be dependent upon available retail spaces and lease terms that meet our requirements. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Consolidated 2006 Net Sales Growth Expectations: For the 2006 fiscal year we are projecting net sales growth of approximately 9% with sales in the first half of fiscal 2006 expected to rise about 7%, and sales in the second half to increase by approximately 10%. This is primarily due to (i) tougher currency comparisons in the first half of the year; and (ii) the launch of new business initiatives weighted more heavily to the second half of the year. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin decreased 120 basis points in 2005 to 51.3% compared to 52.5% in 2004. This margin decline can be attributed primarily to a sales mix shift between the different segments of our business. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, 2005 net sales from our international and domestic wholesale watch segment declined by 300 basis points in comparison to 2004, while our domestic accessory segment experienced a sales mix increase of 170 basis points. Historically, gross profit margins generated from our international segment and domestic watch segment are generally higher than those experienced in our domestic accessories segment. In addition, we experienced higher freight cost as a percentage of net sales primarily due to fuel surcharges that were incurred during the second half of the year. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin decreases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our higher margin producing retail store segment. Our management believes 2006 gross profit margin will be similar to levels experienced in 2005. However, gross profit margins are expected to be lower during the first half of 2006 due to 40 unfavorable foreign currency rate comparisons and slightly higher during the second half of the year assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $56 million during 2005 and, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 40.8% of net sales compared to 38.4% for the prior year. Included in 2005 operating expenses is approximately $6 million related to operating expenses of businesses acquired in 2005. Excluding the operating expenses of acquired businesses, operating expense increases during 2005 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, advertising expense and depreciation and amortization expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional headcount to support new initiatives, including the MARC JACOBS watch launch in 2005 and the ADIDAS watch and new DIESEL and MICHELE jewelry businesses scheduled to be launched in 2006. Additional payroll cost increases were associated with the expansion of our European shared services center to support our SAP software solution roll outs and increased headcount in our European headquarters office in Basel, Switzerland. Advertising expense, excluding the effects of expenses associated with acquired businesses, increased to $80 million. As a percentage of net sales, advertising expense remained constant with 2004 at 7.7%. Depreciation and amortization expense increases are primarily related to leasehold improvements and in store fixturing associated with new company owned retail store openings during 2004 and 2005, additional hardware and software additions and depreciation related to the SAP implementations in Germany and France finalized in August 2004 and May 2005, respectively. Our management anticipates 2006 operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, to remain slightly higher than the level experienced in 2005, assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar. In 2006, we expect implementation of SFAS 123R, as well as additional awards granted in connection with 2006 performance reviews and future awards to be granted, to increase operating expenses by $3 million to $4 million. Operating Income. Gross profit margin reductions and increased operating expenses as a percentage of net sales resulted in our operating profit margin decreasing to 10.5% in 2005 compared to 14.1% in the prior year. Our management believes operating margin for 2006 will remain relatively unchanged from 2005 on a full year basis, based on assumptions discussed above. However, as we continue to grow in the watch, jewelry and retail store segments, we believe we may continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a percent of sales, we believe operating expenses may be more significant in the first half of the year when, due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores, personnel and infrastructure costs incurred in the back half of the prior year carries into 2006. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, royalty income, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries, gains and losses on disposal of assets and equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During 2005, other income (expense) decreased unfavorably by approximately $11 million as a result of currency losses incurred in 2005 compared to currency gains experienced in 2004. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 24.6% during 2005 compared to 35.8% in the prior year. During 2005, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("The Act"), we were able to repatriate $165 million of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested and as a result received an 85% dividends received deduction for these eligible dividends. Since we had previously provided for income taxes to be paid on these foreign earnings at the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, less appropriate foreign tax credits, we released approximately $18 million of our previously recorded deferred tax liabilities. This reduction, offset by the actual taxes paid on these dividends, contributed earnings of approximately $0.17 per diluted share during 2005 that will not reoccur in 2006. The repatriated funds will be used to invest in qualified expenditures in the United 41 States in accordance with our approved Domestic Reinvestment Plan. For 2006 our management expects our effective tax rate to approximate 37%. Diluted Earnings Per Share Guidance. Our management expects Fiscal 2006 diluted earnings per share of $1.05 in comparison to 2005 diluted earnings per share of $1.07 or $0.90 per diluted share excluding tax benefits related to The Act. This guidance for 2006 reflects a $0.03 to $0.04 per diluted share negative impact from the implementation of SFAS 123R, as well as a $0.06 per diluted share benefit from a lower share count as a result of the execution of our common stock buy back programs during 2005. Fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003 Net sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe 11 % % 8 % 19 % Other international 3 6 46 55 Domestic wholesale 8 9 17 Retail worldwide 1 24 25 Total 4 % 4 % 15 % 23 % International Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. European sales growth was driven by sales volume increases in FOSSIL, DIESEL and DKNY watches and FOSSIL jewelry. Growth from other international sales, which include our Canada and Asia Pacific distribution businesses and export sales from the United States, was led by sales volume increases in FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DIESEL and DKNY watch businesses. Our other international segment was also positively impacted by an approximate $4.7 million special market sale. Domestic Net Sales. Excluding the impact on sales growth attributable to acquisitions, domestic watch sales increased 9.9% principally as a result of a $10.1 million increase from our mass market initiative launched in 2004 and sales volume growth in the RELIC brand. These increases were offset by an approximate 10% decrease in sales volume related to the FOSSIL watch brand. We believe that the increase in sales of RELIC watches is primarily due to changes made to our assortment as well as additional growth resulting from new customers added in late Fiscal 2003. We believe the decrease in the FOSSIL brand, which was more pronounced in the second half of Fiscal 2004, is due to a cyclical shift in consumer discretionary spending patterns toward other accessory areas in department stores and away from fashion watches. Additionally, we experienced more difficult comparisons against sales levels achieved in the second half of Fiscal 2003. During the second half of Fiscal 2003, the re emergence of leather strap watches as a popular fashion item contributed to double digit sales growth for the FOSSIL brand. Company Owned Retail Stores Net Sales. Excluding the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes, sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 24% during the year as a result of a 14% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales gains of 11%. Our management believes our double digit comparable store growth during the year was attributable to better in store merchandising and visual presentation. We operated 136 stores at the end of the year, consisting of 60 outlet, 31 accessory and 22 apparel stores in the United 42 States and 23 accessory stores located outside the United States. This compares to 119 stores at the end of the prior year, 53 outlet, 26 accessory and 18 jeanswear in the United States and 22 accessory stores located outside the United States. We opened 17 new stores during the year. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin increased to 52.5% compared to 51.1% in the prior year. This margin expansion can be attributed primarily to higher international gross profit margin due to stronger foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and British Pound, and increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our international businesses and company owned retail stores. Stronger foreign currencies contributed approximately 150 basis points to the overall gross profit margin increase. Sales from our international businesses and our retail stores generally provide gross profit margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Gross profit margins generated from our international businesses are historically higher than those experienced in the U.S., mainly due to higher average wholesale prices charged for watch products internationally and the general absence of lower margin accessory businesses offered outside the United States. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin increases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our lower margin producing RELIC watch and our new mass market businesses. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $78 million during 2004 and, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 38.4% of net sales compared to 37.2% for the prior year. Included in 2004 operating expenses is approximately $11 million in additional costs related to the translation impact of stronger foreign currencies into U.S. dollars and approximately $11 million related to operating expenses of businesses acquired in 2004 and new product initiative costs. Excluding the effects of currency, operating expenses of acquired businesses and new initiatives, operating expense increases during 2004 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, advertising costs, professional fees, depreciation and amortization expense and rent expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional brand management personnel to support our global sales network, increased headcount in our information technology group primarily to support our new SAP software solution, increased staffing to support our European consolidation effort and increased staffing in our Asia Pacific businesses to support our significant growth in that region during 2004. Advertising expense, excluding the effects of foreign currencies, acquisitions and new initiatives increased $15 million or 50 basis points as a percentage of net sales, primarily as a result of increased advertising initiatives taken on during the fourth quarter of 2004. Increased professional fees are related to increased consulting costs associated with our SAP software implementation, accounting and legal fees incurred in connection with our European consolidation project and audit and consulting costs related to our Sarbanes Oxley compliance project. Depreciation and amortization expense increases are due to completion of the first two phases of our SAP global software implementation in July 2003 for U.S. operations and August 2004 for our Germany operations as well as other capital additions made during 2004. During 2004, we recorded a $3.1 million pre tax charge to rent expense during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. This adjustment arose from corrections to our previous accounting practices relating to the extension of the rental expense period to the lease possession date and rent escalations in computing rent expense for operating leases, primarily related to our retail stores segment. Prior years financial results were not restated due to the immateriality of this issue to the results of operations, cash flows and statement of financial position for our current year or any individual prior quarter or year. We also reached a settlement on a claim made by a supplier related to production of certain watch products. As a result of this settlement, we recorded a pre tax charge of $875,000 during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004. Operating Income. Improved gross profit margin was partially offset by increased operating expenses as a percentage of sales, which resulted in the Companys operating profit margin increasing to 14.1% in 2004 compared to 13.9% in the prior year. Operating income included approximately $19 million in additional income as a result of the effects of stronger foreign currencies. 43  Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, royalty income, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries, gains and losses on disposal of assets and equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During 2004, other income (expense) increased favorably by approximately $5 million. The increase was primarily a result of foreign currency transaction gains as the US dollar weakened against other foreign currencies. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 35.8% during 2004 compared to 37.6% in the prior year. This decrease was primarily related to a higher mix of income generated from countries whose statutory income tax rates are lower than our historical average income tax rate. Effects of inflation Our management does not believe that inflation has had a material impact on results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. Management believes that, to the extent inflation affects its costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and capital resources Our general business operations historically have not required substantial cash needs during the first several months of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame. Our cash holdings and securities available for sale as of the end of the year decreased to $64 million in comparison to $192 million at the end of the prior year. Of the $64 million of cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale at fiscal year end 2005, $46.1 million is held in banks outside the United States to support the working capital needs of our subsidiaries. The decrease in cash holdings and securities available for sale is primarily the result of $34 million of net cash generated from operating activities less $60 million of cash used in investing activities and $96 million of cash used in financing activities. Cash flows generated from operating activities were primarily related to net income of $78 million and non cash items of approximately $19 million partially offset by $59 million of cash associated with inventory increases and $18 million of reductions in income taxes payable. Cash flows used in investing activities were primarily related to fixed asset additions of $53 million. Cash used in financing activities were primarily related to $75 million in repurchases of common stock, $18 million of debt reduction and $8 million in distribution of minority interest earnings. These items were partially offset by approximately $6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Accounts receivable decreased to $142 million at the end of 2005 compared to $155 million at the end of 2004. Average days sales outstanding of 52 days for the year reflects no change from the level experienced in the prior year. Fiscal 2005 ending inventory of $241 million represents an increase of 35% compared to $179 million in the prior year. The increase in inventories is mainly attributable to the following factors: i) actual fourth quarter sales falling below our original expectations, ii) higher levels of luxury watch inventories primarily due to longer production lead times, iii) increased levels of in transit inventories related to accessories, primarily to support continued growth in the segment, and iv) inventory increases associated with new businesses acquired in 2005. Our management believes the inventory position will not likely improve during the first quarter of 2006 and will only slightly improve in the first half of 2006. Stock level increases associated with our increased retail store count, the ADIDAS watch launch, new jewelry business initiative rollouts and stock associated with the acquisition of our Mexico based distributor will partially mask the reduction in our wholesale watch inventories. Our management believes there are two key initiatives that will assist us in reducing our inventory levels. First, we have implemented strategies to adjust inventory purchases to match trailing trend results rather than purchasing inventory based on estimated but perhaps optimistic growth expectations. Secondly, we will review opportunities for the reduction in our excess inventory through alternative 44 channels. Our management believes these initiatives will assist us in reaching our goal to report inventory reductions by the end of fiscal 2006. At the end of 2005, we had working capital of $320 million compared to working capital of $367 million at the end of the prior year. We had approximately $8.4 million of outstanding borrowings at the end of 2005. Approximately $5 million of these outstanding borrowings are under our $100 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility bearing interest at our option of (i) the LIBOR base rate (4.39% at year end) plus 50 basis points, or (ii) the lesser of (a) the higher of Wells Fargos prime rate (7.25% at year end) less 1.0%, or 3.0%, or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law, due September 2006. The remaining $3.4 million in borrowings are under a short term facility in Japan bearing interest at the Euroyen rate (approximately 0.7% at year end), due May 2006. During 2006, we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $40 million to principally cover the purchase of new office space for our U.K. subsidiary, automation of our distribution center in Germany, as well as normal maintenance capital expenditures and retail store growth. In addition, it is our intent to continue our stock repurchase program for which we had approximately 1.3 million shares available for repurchase relating to previous authorizations at the end of fiscal 2005. These repurchases could add an additional $20 to $25 million to our capital requirements in 2006. Management believes that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our capital needs during 2006. We also have access to amounts available under our credit facilities should additional funds be required. Contractual obligations and off balance sheet arrangements The following table presents, as of December 31, 2005, a summary of our significant cash contractual obligations by payment date. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in note 7 and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. We have no consolidated off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Short term debt(1) $ 8,400 $ 8,400 $ $ $ Minimum Royalty Payments(2) 136,907 32,840 66,848 27,167 10,052 Future Minimum Rental Payments 139,148 26,373 45,783 33,191 33,801 Purchase Obligations(3) 55,884 55,884 Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 340,339 $ 123,497 $ 112,631 $ 60,358 $ 43,853 (1)Consists of short term credit borrowings in the U.S and Japan and excludes contractual interest. (2)Consists of primarily exclusive licenses to manufacture watches under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. (3)Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. 45 Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Fiscal Year 2005 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 232,510 $ 226,235 $ 257,519 $ 324,203 Gross profit 121,162 117,252 134,778 160,514 Operating expenses 96,647 100,959 99,580 127,129 Operating income 24,515 16,293 35,198 33,385 Income before income taxes 21,912 13,881 33,071 34,699 Provision for income taxes (1,982 ) 4,228 10,724 12,534 Net income 23,894 9,653 22,347 22,165 Earnings per share: Basic 0.34 0.14 0.32 0.32 Diluted 0.32 0.13 0.30 0.31 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 52.1 % 51.8 % 52.3 % 49.5 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 41.6 % 44.6 % 38.6 % 39.2 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 10.5 % 7.2 % 13.7 % 10.3 % Fiscal Year 2004 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 199,395 $ 206,122 $ 236,043 $ 318,400 Gross profit 101,852 108,807 121,361 172,021 Operating expenses 76,944 84,772 83,285 123,681 Operating income 24,908 24,035 38,076 48,340 Income before income taxes 25,944 25,048 37,174 52,936 Provision for income taxes 9,599 9,268 13,802 17,864 Net income 16,345 15,780 23,372 35,072 Earnings per share: Basic 0.23 0.22 0.33 0.49 Diluted 0.22 0.21 0.31 0.47 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 51.1 % 52.8 % 51.4 % 54.0 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 38.6 % 41.1 % 35.3 % 38.8 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 12.5 % 11.7 % 16.1 % 15.2 % While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the "back to school" and Christmas season, generated approximately 63% of our annual operating income for 2005. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. Our management currently believes that our inventory levels at our major customers at the end of 2005 were near target inventory levels. As we continue to grow in the watch, jewelry and retail store segments, we believe we will continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a 46 percent of sales, we believe operating expenses will be more significant in the first half of the year when due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores, personnel and infrastructure costs incurred in the back half of the prior year carry into the following year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro and the British Pound as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of practices to manage this market risk, including our operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of foreign currency forward contracts. The use of these instruments allows management to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in 2005 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At year end we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 26.4 million Euro for approximately $32.7 million, expiring through December 2006. If we were to settle our Euro based contracts at fiscal year end 2005, the net result would be a gain of approximately $1.1 million, net of taxes. Exclusive of these outstanding foreign exchange contracts or other operating or financing activities that may be employed by us, a measurement of the unfavorable impact of a 10 percent change in the Euro and British Pound as compared to the U.S. dollar would have on our operating profits and stockholders equity is presented in the following paragraph. At fiscal year end 2005, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar against the Euro and British Pound involving balance sheet transactional exposures would have an approximate $5.8 million negative impact on net pretax income. The translation of the balance sheets of our European and United Kingdom based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2005, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and British Pound would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $8.8 million. In the view of management, the risks associated with exchange rate changes in other currencies we have exposure to are not material and these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operation or cash flows. 47   
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer products predicated on fashion and value. Since our inception in 1984, we have grown into a global watch and accessory company with a well recognized branded portfolio delivered over an extensive distribution network. Our principle offerings include an extensive line of watches sold under our proprietary brands as well as brands licensed from some of the most prestigious companies in the 34 world. We also offer complementary lines of small leather goods, belts, handbags and sunglasses under our proprietary FOSSIL and RELIC brands and jewelry under the FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI and MICHELE brands. In addition, beginning in March 2006, we plan to commence distribution of a line of fashion jewelry under the DIESEL brand. Our centralized infrastructure in design/development and production/sourcing allows us to leverage the strength of our branded watch and jewelry portfolio over an extensive global distribution network. Our products are sold primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of approximately 58 independent distributors. Our leather and sunglass products are primarily sold through U.S. department stores. Our foreign operations include wholly or majority owned subsidiaries in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. In addition, our products are offered at company owned retail locations, located in the United States and certain international markets, and authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks located in several major airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets. Our expansion of our product lines worldwide and leveraging of our infrastructure have contributed to our operating profits and increasing net sales. Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, long lived asset impairment and impairment of goodwill. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within managements expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. Any significant increase in returns based on poor performance and product damages or defects and the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value 35 based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than tradenames whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statements of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our company owned retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. Impairment of Goodwill and Tradenames. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the book value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies and market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the book value of the reporting unit, no impairment loss is recognized. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and 2004, we performed the required annual impairment test and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. We evaluate tradenames annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to the book value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005, we performed the required annual impairment test and determined that no tradename impairment existed. New Accounting Standards. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment ("SFAS 123R"), which replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, ("SFAS 123") and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. Under SFAS 123R, public companies will be required to measure the cost of services received in exchange for stock options and similar awards based on the grant date fair value of the award and recognize this cost in the income statement over the period during which an award recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition. Under SFAS 123R, we must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share based payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition method to be used at date of adoption. The transition methods include modified prospective and retroactive adoption options. We adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective method. Under this method, we will recognize compensation cost, on a prospective basis, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered as of January 1, 2006, based upon the grant date fair value of those awards calculated under SFAS 123 for pro forma disclosure purposes. We expect that the adoption of SFAS 123R will reduce our fiscal 2006 operating income by approximately $2.2 million based upon the number of unvested options at the beginning of the year excluding any that might be granted during 2006. Prior to the opening of the Nasdaq National Market on November 16, 2005, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved the accelerated vesting of all unvested and "out of the money" non qualified and incentive stock options previously awarded to current employees, including officers, during the period beginning on February 23, 2004 and ending on March 8, 2005 (the "Acceleration Period") under our 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan. Additionally, on November 30, 2005, our Board of Directors approved the accelerated vesting of all unvested and "out of the money" 36 non qualified stock options previously awarded to our nonemployee directors on January 1, 2005, under the 1993 Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan. The exercise prices for options granted during the Acceleration Period ranged from $19.13 to $30.22, with a weighted average exercise price of $22.77. The accelerated options represented approximately 84.3 percent of the total of all of our unvested outstanding options. As a result of these accelerations of employee and nonemployee director options, we expect to reduce the stock option expense that otherwise would be required to be recorded in connection with the accelerated options by approximately $15.1 million over the original option vesting period which includes fiscal years 2006 through 2010. The decision to accelerate the vesting of these employee and non employee director options, which our Compensation Committee and Board of Directors believes is in the best interest of the Company, our stockholders, and employees, was made primarily to reduce non cash compensation expense that would have been recorded in the income statement in future periods upon the adoption of SFAS 123R beginning in January 2006. In addition, because these options have exercise prices in excess of current market values, they are not fully achieving their original objectives of incentive compensation and employee and director retention. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs An Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 ("SFAS 151"). SFAS 151 amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing ("ARB 43"), to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material (spoilage). Among other provisions, the new rule requires that items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they meet the criterion of "so abnormal" as stated in ARB 43. Additionally, SFAS 151 requires that the allocation of fixed production overhead to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. We adopted SFAS 151 beginning on January 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 151 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions ("SFAS 153"). SFAS 153 eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions, and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. SFAS 153 specifies that a nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The adoption of SFAS 153 on January 1, 2006, did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Assets Retirement Obligations An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143, ("FIN 47"). FIN 47 requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liabilitys fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005 and therefore is applicable to the year ended December 31, 2005. The adoption of FIN 47 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. 37 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the years indicated. Fiscal Year 2005 Percentage change from 2004 2004 Percentage change from 2003 2003 Net sales 100.0 % 8.4 % 100.0 % 22.9 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 48.7 11.2 47.5 19.3 48.9 Gross profit 51.3 5.9 52.5 26.3 51.1 Operating expenses 40.8 15.1 38.4 27.0 37.2 Operating income 10.5 (19.2 ) 14.1 24.4 13.9 Interest expense Other (expense) income net (0.5 ) (195.5 ) 0.6 696.3 0.1 Income before income taxes 10.0 (26.6 ) 14.7 28.9 14.0 Income taxes 2.5 (49.5 ) 5.3 22.8 5.3 Net income 7.5 % (13.8 )% 9.4 % 32.5 % 8.7 % The following table sets forth certain components of our consolidated net sales and the percentage relationship of the components to consolidated net sales for the fiscal year indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 International: Europe $ 313.7 $ 306.9 $ 258.1 30.1 % 31.9 % 33.1 % Other 142.1 127.2 82.0 13.7 % 13.3 % 10.5 % Total international 455.8 434.1 340.1 43.8 % 45.2 % 43.6 % Domestic: Watch products 245.2 241.9 205.7 23.6 % 25.2 % 26.3 % Other products 184.5 153.8 131.3 17.7 % 16.0 % 16.8 % Total domestic 429.7 395.7 337.0 41.3 % 41.2 % 43.1 % Retail worldwide 155.0 130.2 104.1 14.9 % 13.6 % 13.3 % Total net sales $ 1,040.5 $ 960.0 $ 781.2 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 38 Fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 Net sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe (1 )% 1 % 2 % 2 % Other international 1 4 7 12 Domestic wholesale 2 7 9 Retail worldwide 19 19 Total % 2 % 7 % 8 % International Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. European sales growth was driven by sales volume increases in FOSSIL jewelry and DIESEL, DKNY and BURBERRY watches. These increases were partially offset by sales volume declines in FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI watches. The sales volume growth in FOSSIL jewelry was mainly attributable to further penetration of the line in Germany as well as recent expansion into new European markets, primarily Italy and the United Kingdom. Net sales increases in DIESEL, DKNY and BURBERRY watches were primarily related to further penetration within existing markets as these brands continue to gain recognition. FOSSIL and EMPORIO ARMANI sales decreases are primarily the result of declines in the sales of core styles and weak consumer response to new styles launched during 2005 and our belief that the watch category in general experienced declines during 2005. Growth from other international sales, which include our Canada and Asia Pacific distribution businesses and export sales from the United States, was led by sales volume increases in our EMPORIO ARMANI, DIESEL and BURBERRY watch businesses primarily resulting from expansion of these brands into additional retail locations. Fiscal 2005 net sales growth in our other international segment was negatively impacted by an approximate $4.7 million prior year special market sale that occurred in 2004. We believe the global recognition of our branded portfolio of watches positions us as a significant resource to retailers throughout the international marketplace. Our strategy is not to force any one brand into a specific market, but rather allow the market to dictate which brands are important based upon consumer preference. We further believe our global distribution network and design and marketing capabilities will allow us to acquire additional brands that will position us for further penetration internationally as we continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands. As an example, we anticipate the launch of the newly acquired ADIDAS licensed watch business in early 2006 will further advance our product offering and allow for long term leverage of our existing distribution infrastructure outside the United States, further strengthening our competitive advantage. Furthermore, we believe our jewelry businesses, including FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI, MICHELE and soon to be launched DIESEL, will allow us to further leverage our customer base and infrastructure within the international markets. For 2006, assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar, our management believes the international segment will continue to grow with even more pronounced growth in the Asia Pacific markets due to the lower level of penetration we have in this region. Domestic Net Sales. Excluding the impact on sales growth attributable to acquisitions, domestic watch sales decreased 2.1% principally as a result of a 10% decline in FOSSIL watch sales and a 17.6% decline in RELIC watch sales. These decreases were partially offset by growth in our mass market business that launched in mid 2004. We believe that the decrease in sales of FOSSIL and RELIC 39 watches is primarily due to a cyclical shift in consumer discretionary spending patterns away from the watch category during 2005. Over the longer term, our management believes that consumer spending will cycle back to the fashion watch category and, until then, we will continue to review opportunities for category and brand expansion to gain further market share. The launch of the newly acquired ADIDAS licensed watch business in 2006 and continued growth from our MICHELE, ZODIAC and existing licensed watch brands will assist in advancing our domestic watch business. During 2005, domestic sales of our accessory and sunglass businesses rose 20% resulting from sales volume growth in FOSSIL womens and mens leather products as well as RELIC sunglasses. The womens handbag category was one of the benefactors of the shift in consumer discretionary spending in 2005 allowing us to not only experience increased sales in existing locations but also expand our presence in many other accessory product lines within the same customer base. We believe the growth of the FOSSIL brand presence within U.S. department stores, including watch, accessory and sunglass products, continues to position our company as a leading supplier to the distribution channel. While our management believes sales growth for our domestic wholesale watch businesses will continue to be difficult in 2006, we expect continued strength in the accessory business. Overall our management expects the domestic wholesale segment to experience mid single digit growth in 2006. Retail Worldwide Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 19.1% during the year as a result of a 20.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 1.1%. In comparison to the prior year, 2005 comparable store sales increases were negatively impacted by declines in our FOSSIL watch business which has historically accounted for approximately 60% to 65% of our overall retail store sales. Retail store sales were positively impacted by significant increases in sales from accessory products. We operated 171 stores at the end of the year consisting of 72 outlet and 99 full price stores, including 31 full price stores located outside the United States. This compares to 136 stores at the end of the prior year including 60 outlet and 76 full price stores, including 23 stores located outside the United States. We opened 38 new stores and closed 3 stores during the year. We are currently targeting 25 to 35 new store openings in 2006 that will be dependent upon available retail spaces and lease terms that meet our requirements. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Consolidated 2006 Net Sales Growth Expectations: For the 2006 fiscal year we are projecting net sales growth of approximately 9% with sales in the first half of fiscal 2006 expected to rise about 7%, and sales in the second half to increase by approximately 10%. This is primarily due to (i) tougher currency comparisons in the first half of the year; and (ii) the launch of new business initiatives weighted more heavily to the second half of the year. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin decreased 120 basis points in 2005 to 51.3% compared to 52.5% in 2004. This margin decline can be attributed primarily to a sales mix shift between the different segments of our business. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, 2005 net sales from our international and domestic wholesale watch segment declined by 300 basis points in comparison to 2004, while our domestic accessory segment experienced a sales mix increase of 170 basis points. Historically, gross profit margins generated from our international segment and domestic watch segment are generally higher than those experienced in our domestic accessories segment. In addition, we experienced higher freight cost as a percentage of net sales primarily due to fuel surcharges that were incurred during the second half of the year. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin decreases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our higher margin producing retail store segment. Our management believes 2006 gross profit margin will be similar to levels experienced in 2005. However, gross profit margins are expected to be lower during the first half of 2006 due to 40 unfavorable foreign currency rate comparisons and slightly higher during the second half of the year assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $56 million during 2005 and, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 40.8% of net sales compared to 38.4% for the prior year. Included in 2005 operating expenses is approximately $6 million related to operating expenses of businesses acquired in 2005. Excluding the operating expenses of acquired businesses, operating expense increases during 2005 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, advertising expense and depreciation and amortization expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional headcount to support new initiatives, including the MARC JACOBS watch launch in 2005 and the ADIDAS watch and new DIESEL and MICHELE jewelry businesses scheduled to be launched in 2006. Additional payroll cost increases were associated with the expansion of our European shared services center to support our SAP software solution roll outs and increased headcount in our European headquarters office in Basel, Switzerland. Advertising expense, excluding the effects of expenses associated with acquired businesses, increased to $80 million. As a percentage of net sales, advertising expense remained constant with 2004 at 7.7%. Depreciation and amortization expense increases are primarily related to leasehold improvements and in store fixturing associated with new company owned retail store openings during 2004 and 2005, additional hardware and software additions and depreciation related to the SAP implementations in Germany and France finalized in August 2004 and May 2005, respectively. Our management anticipates 2006 operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, to remain slightly higher than the level experienced in 2005, assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar. In 2006, we expect implementation of SFAS 123R, as well as additional awards granted in connection with 2006 performance reviews and future awards to be granted, to increase operating expenses by $3 million to $4 million. Operating Income. Gross profit margin reductions and increased operating expenses as a percentage of net sales resulted in our operating profit margin decreasing to 10.5% in 2005 compared to 14.1% in the prior year. Our management believes operating margin for 2006 will remain relatively unchanged from 2005 on a full year basis, based on assumptions discussed above. However, as we continue to grow in the watch, jewelry and retail store segments, we believe we may continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a percent of sales, we believe operating expenses may be more significant in the first half of the year when, due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores, personnel and infrastructure costs incurred in the back half of the prior year carries into 2006. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, royalty income, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries, gains and losses on disposal of assets and equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During 2005, other income (expense) decreased unfavorably by approximately $11 million as a result of currency losses incurred in 2005 compared to currency gains experienced in 2004. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 24.6% during 2005 compared to 35.8% in the prior year. During 2005, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("The Act"), we were able to repatriate $165 million of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested and as a result received an 85% dividends received deduction for these eligible dividends. Since we had previously provided for income taxes to be paid on these foreign earnings at the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, less appropriate foreign tax credits, we released approximately $18 million of our previously recorded deferred tax liabilities. This reduction, offset by the actual taxes paid on these dividends, contributed earnings of approximately $0.17 per diluted share during 2005 that will not reoccur in 2006. The repatriated funds will be used to invest in qualified expenditures in the United 41 States in accordance with our approved Domestic Reinvestment Plan. For 2006 our management expects our effective tax rate to approximate 37%. Diluted Earnings Per Share Guidance. Our management expects Fiscal 2006 diluted earnings per share of $1.05 in comparison to 2005 diluted earnings per share of $1.07 or $0.90 per diluted share excluding tax benefits related to The Act. This guidance for 2006 reflects a $0.03 to $0.04 per diluted share negative impact from the implementation of SFAS 123R, as well as a $0.06 per diluted share benefit from a lower share count as a result of the execution of our common stock buy back programs during 2005. Fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003 Net sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe 11 % % 8 % 19 % Other international 3 6 46 55 Domestic wholesale 8 9 17 Retail worldwide 1 24 25 Total 4 % 4 % 15 % 23 % International Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. European sales growth was driven by sales volume increases in FOSSIL, DIESEL and DKNY watches and FOSSIL jewelry. Growth from other international sales, which include our Canada and Asia Pacific distribution businesses and export sales from the United States, was led by sales volume increases in FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DIESEL and DKNY watch businesses. Our other international segment was also positively impacted by an approximate $4.7 million special market sale. Domestic Net Sales. Excluding the impact on sales growth attributable to acquisitions, domestic watch sales increased 9.9% principally as a result of a $10.1 million increase from our mass market initiative launched in 2004 and sales volume growth in the RELIC brand. These increases were offset by an approximate 10% decrease in sales volume related to the FOSSIL watch brand. We believe that the increase in sales of RELIC watches is primarily due to changes made to our assortment as well as additional growth resulting from new customers added in late Fiscal 2003. We believe the decrease in the FOSSIL brand, which was more pronounced in the second half of Fiscal 2004, is due to a cyclical shift in consumer discretionary spending patterns toward other accessory areas in department stores and away from fashion watches. Additionally, we experienced more difficult comparisons against sales levels achieved in the second half of Fiscal 2003. During the second half of Fiscal 2003, the re emergence of leather strap watches as a popular fashion item contributed to double digit sales growth for the FOSSIL brand. Company Owned Retail Stores Net Sales. Excluding the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes, sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 24% during the year as a result of a 14% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales gains of 11%. Our management believes our double digit comparable store growth during the year was attributable to better in store merchandising and visual presentation. We operated 136 stores at the end of the year, consisting of 60 outlet, 31 accessory and 22 apparel stores in the United 42 States and 23 accessory stores located outside the United States. This compares to 119 stores at the end of the prior year, 53 outlet, 26 accessory and 18 jeanswear in the United States and 22 accessory stores located outside the United States. We opened 17 new stores during the year. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin increased to 52.5% compared to 51.1% in the prior year. This margin expansion can be attributed primarily to higher international gross profit margin due to stronger foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and British Pound, and increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our international businesses and company owned retail stores. Stronger foreign currencies contributed approximately 150 basis points to the overall gross profit margin increase. Sales from our international businesses and our retail stores generally provide gross profit margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Gross profit margins generated from our international businesses are historically higher than those experienced in the U.S., mainly due to higher average wholesale prices charged for watch products internationally and the general absence of lower margin accessory businesses offered outside the United States. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin increases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our lower margin producing RELIC watch and our new mass market businesses. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $78 million during 2004 and, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 38.4% of net sales compared to 37.2% for the prior year. Included in 2004 operating expenses is approximately $11 million in additional costs related to the translation impact of stronger foreign currencies into U.S. dollars and approximately $11 million related to operating expenses of businesses acquired in 2004 and new product initiative costs. Excluding the effects of currency, operating expenses of acquired businesses and new initiatives, operating expense increases during 2004 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, advertising costs, professional fees, depreciation and amortization expense and rent expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional brand management personnel to support our global sales network, increased headcount in our information technology group primarily to support our new SAP software solution, increased staffing to support our European consolidation effort and increased staffing in our Asia Pacific businesses to support our significant growth in that region during 2004. Advertising expense, excluding the effects of foreign currencies, acquisitions and new initiatives increased $15 million or 50 basis points as a percentage of net sales, primarily as a result of increased advertising initiatives taken on during the fourth quarter of 2004. Increased professional fees are related to increased consulting costs associated with our SAP software implementation, accounting and legal fees incurred in connection with our European consolidation project and audit and consulting costs related to our Sarbanes Oxley compliance project. Depreciation and amortization expense increases are due to completion of the first two phases of our SAP global software implementation in July 2003 for U.S. operations and August 2004 for our Germany operations as well as other capital additions made during 2004. During 2004, we recorded a $3.1 million pre tax charge to rent expense during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. This adjustment arose from corrections to our previous accounting practices relating to the extension of the rental expense period to the lease possession date and rent escalations in computing rent expense for operating leases, primarily related to our retail stores segment. Prior years financial results were not restated due to the immateriality of this issue to the results of operations, cash flows and statement of financial position for our current year or any individual prior quarter or year. We also reached a settlement on a claim made by a supplier related to production of certain watch products. As a result of this settlement, we recorded a pre tax charge of $875,000 during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004. Operating Income. Improved gross profit margin was partially offset by increased operating expenses as a percentage of sales, which resulted in the Companys operating profit margin increasing to 14.1% in 2004 compared to 13.9% in the prior year. Operating income included approximately $19 million in additional income as a result of the effects of stronger foreign currencies. 43  Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, royalty income, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries, gains and losses on disposal of assets and equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During 2004, other income (expense) increased favorably by approximately $5 million. The increase was primarily a result of foreign currency transaction gains as the US dollar weakened against other foreign currencies. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 35.8% during 2004 compared to 37.6% in the prior year. This decrease was primarily related to a higher mix of income generated from countries whose statutory income tax rates are lower than our historical average income tax rate. Effects of inflation Our management does not believe that inflation has had a material impact on results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. Management believes that, to the extent inflation affects its costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and capital resources Our general business operations historically have not required substantial cash needs during the first several months of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame. Our cash holdings and securities available for sale as of the end of the year decreased to $64 million in comparison to $192 million at the end of the prior year. Of the $64 million of cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale at fiscal year end 2005, $46.1 million is held in banks outside the United States to support the working capital needs of our subsidiaries. The decrease in cash holdings and securities available for sale is primarily the result of $34 million of net cash generated from operating activities less $60 million of cash used in investing activities and $96 million of cash used in financing activities. Cash flows generated from operating activities were primarily related to net income of $78 million and non cash items of approximately $19 million partially offset by $59 million of cash associated with inventory increases and $18 million of reductions in income taxes payable. Cash flows used in investing activities were primarily related to fixed asset additions of $53 million. Cash used in financing activities were primarily related to $75 million in repurchases of common stock, $18 million of debt reduction and $8 million in distribution of minority interest earnings. These items were partially offset by approximately $6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Accounts receivable decreased to $142 million at the end of 2005 compared to $155 million at the end of 2004. Average days sales outstanding of 52 days for the year reflects no change from the level experienced in the prior year. Fiscal 2005 ending inventory of $241 million represents an increase of 35% compared to $179 million in the prior year. The increase in inventories is mainly attributable to the following factors: i) actual fourth quarter sales falling below our original expectations, ii) higher levels of luxury watch inventories primarily due to longer production lead times, iii) increased levels of in transit inventories related to accessories, primarily to support continued growth in the segment, and iv) inventory increases associated with new businesses acquired in 2005. Our management believes the inventory position will not likely improve during the first quarter of 2006 and will only slightly improve in the first half of 2006. Stock level increases associated with our increased retail store count, the ADIDAS watch launch, new jewelry business initiative rollouts and stock associated with the acquisition of our Mexico based distributor will partially mask the reduction in our wholesale watch inventories. Our management believes there are two key initiatives that will assist us in reducing our inventory levels. First, we have implemented strategies to adjust inventory purchases to match trailing trend results rather than purchasing inventory based on estimated but perhaps optimistic growth expectations. Secondly, we will review opportunities for the reduction in our excess inventory through alternative 44 channels. Our management believes these initiatives will assist us in reaching our goal to report inventory reductions by the end of fiscal 2006. At the end of 2005, we had working capital of $320 million compared to working capital of $367 million at the end of the prior year. We had approximately $8.4 million of outstanding borrowings at the end of 2005. Approximately $5 million of these outstanding borrowings are under our $100 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility bearing interest at our option of (i) the LIBOR base rate (4.39% at year end) plus 50 basis points, or (ii) the lesser of (a) the higher of Wells Fargos prime rate (7.25% at year end) less 1.0%, or 3.0%, or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law, due September 2006. The remaining $3.4 million in borrowings are under a short term facility in Japan bearing interest at the Euroyen rate (approximately 0.7% at year end), due May 2006. During 2006, we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $40 million to principally cover the purchase of new office space for our U.K. subsidiary, automation of our distribution center in Germany, as well as normal maintenance capital expenditures and retail store growth. In addition, it is our intent to continue our stock repurchase program for which we had approximately 1.3 million shares available for repurchase relating to previous authorizations at the end of fiscal 2005. These repurchases could add an additional $20 to $25 million to our capital requirements in 2006. Management believes that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our capital needs during 2006. We also have access to amounts available under our credit facilities should additional funds be required. Contractual obligations and off balance sheet arrangements The following table presents, as of December 31, 2005, a summary of our significant cash contractual obligations by payment date. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in note 7 and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. We have no consolidated off balance sheet arrangements. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Short term debt(1) $ 8,400 $ 8,400 $ $ $ Minimum Royalty Payments(2) 136,907 32,840 66,848 27,167 10,052 Future Minimum Rental Payments 139,148 26,373 45,783 33,191 33,801 Purchase Obligations(3) 55,884 55,884 Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 340,339 $ 123,497 $ 112,631 $ 60,358 $ 43,853 (1)Consists of short term credit borrowings in the U.S and Japan and excludes contractual interest. (2)Consists of primarily exclusive licenses to manufacture watches under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. (3)Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. 45 Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Fiscal Year 2005 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 232,510 $ 226,235 $ 257,519 $ 324,203 Gross profit 121,162 117,252 134,778 160,514 Operating expenses 96,647 100,959 99,580 127,129 Operating income 24,515 16,293 35,198 33,385 Income before income taxes 21,912 13,881 33,071 34,699 Provision for income taxes (1,982 ) 4,228 10,724 12,534 Net income 23,894 9,653 22,347 22,165 Earnings per share: Basic 0.34 0.14 0.32 0.32 Diluted 0.32 0.13 0.30 0.31 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 52.1 % 51.8 % 52.3 % 49.5 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 41.6 % 44.6 % 38.6 % 39.2 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 10.5 % 7.2 % 13.7 % 10.3 % Fiscal Year 2004 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 199,395 $ 206,122 $ 236,043 $ 318,400 Gross profit 101,852 108,807 121,361 172,021 Operating expenses 76,944 84,772 83,285 123,681 Operating income 24,908 24,035 38,076 48,340 Income before income taxes 25,944 25,048 37,174 52,936 Provision for income taxes 9,599 9,268 13,802 17,864 Net income 16,345 15,780 23,372 35,072 Earnings per share: Basic 0.23 0.22 0.33 0.49 Diluted 0.22 0.21 0.31 0.47 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 51.1 % 52.8 % 51.4 % 54.0 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 38.6 % 41.1 % 35.3 % 38.8 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 12.5 % 11.7 % 16.1 % 15.2 % While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the "back to school" and Christmas season, generated approximately 63% of our annual operating income for 2005. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. Our management currently believes that our inventory levels at our major customers at the end of 2005 were near target inventory levels. As we continue to grow in the watch, jewelry and retail store segments, we believe we will continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a 46 percent of sales, we believe operating expenses will be more significant in the first half of the year when due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores, personnel and infrastructure costs incurred in the back half of the prior year carry into the following year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro and the British Pound as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of practices to manage this market risk, including our operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of foreign currency forward contracts. The use of these instruments allows management to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in 2005 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At year end we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 26.4 million Euro for approximately $32.7 million, expiring through December 2006. If we were to settle our Euro based contracts at fiscal year end 2005, the net result would be a gain of approximately $1.1 million, net of taxes. Exclusive of these outstanding foreign exchange contracts or other operating or financing activities that may be employed by us, a measurement of the unfavorable impact of a 10 percent change in the Euro and British Pound as compared to the U.S. dollar would have on our operating profits and stockholders equity is presented in the following paragraph. At fiscal year end 2005, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar against the Euro and British Pound involving balance sheet transactional exposures would have an approximate $5.8 million negative impact on net pretax income. The translation of the balance sheets of our European and United Kingdom based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2005, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and British Pound would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $8.8 million. In the view of management, the risks associated with exchange rate changes in other currencies we have exposure to are not material and these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operation or cash flows. 47   
 
