Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words may, believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates and similar expressions identify forward looking statements. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. 23 Our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report, including those discussed below. Accordingly, readers of the Annual Report should consider these facts in evaluating the information and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business The matters relating to the investigation by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation and governmental enforcement actions. On November 14, 2006, we announced that an internal review had discovered irregularities related to the issuance of certain equity grants made from fiscal years 1993 through 2006. We also announced that a Special Committee of outside directors (the Special Committee) had been formed and had hired independent counsel, with the assistance of forensic accountants, to conduct a full investigation of our past equity granting practices. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10 K, as a result of the internal review and independent investigation, we have concluded, and the Audit Committee agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for certain equity grants made in prior periods. As a result, we have recorded additional non cash stock based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past equity grants and have restated certain previously filed financial statements included in this Form 10 K. On November 14, 2006, we also self reported to the staff of the SEC that the Special Committee was reviewing our historical equity granting practices. In a letter dated November 28, 2006, the SEC staff advised us that it had commenced an informal inquiry regarding our stock option grants and related accounting. We cooperated fully with this inquiry. In a letter dated July 20, 2007, the SEC staff has informed us that their investigation has been completed and they do not intend to recommend any enforcement action by the SEC. While we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the most appropriate measurement dates for our equity grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impacts. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. Our past equity granting practices and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. As described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, several derivative complaints have been filed in federal courts against our current and former directors and certain of our executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. Litigation and any potential regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past equity granting practices. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be subject to adverse publicity or adverse customer reactions in connection with these matters. In addition, if our business results deteriorate significantly, or if there is an event, outcome or action as a result of the pending civil litigation which is materially adverse to the Company, our credit ratings may be downgraded. A significant downgrade in ratings may increase the cost of borrowing for the Company or limit the Companys access to capital. 24 We also received NASDAQ Staff Determination notices on November 20, 2006 and March 13, 2007 stating we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because we had not timely filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the quarter ended October 7, 2006 and our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the period ended January 6, 2007, respectively, and were therefore subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. On May 18, 2007, we received notice from the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council (the Council) indicating that the Council had called for review the April 24, 2007 decision of the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the Panel). In addition, we received notice that the Council, pursuant to its discretionary authority under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4807(b), has also decided to stay the April 24, 2007 decision to suspend our securities from trading, pending further action by the Council. On May 21, 2007 we received an additional Determination letter from NASDAQ stating we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because we had not timely filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10 Q for the quarter ended April 6, 2007, which did not impact the Councils previous decision regarding the stay. During the stay, our shares will remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. With the filing of this annual report on Form 10 K, and other delinquent filings to be made, we believe that we will remedy our non compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to NASDAQs affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its notification of the Company accordingly. However, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past equity grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that might result in delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences in a timely manner while preserving the authenticity and quality of our brands. Although we attempt to stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and fashion trends affecting accessories and apparel, any failure by us to identify and respond to such trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our existing brand names and product lines, which in turn could adversely affect sales of our products. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products Our success also depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products, or if our competitors introduce superior products, customers may purchase increasing amounts of products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings and new products introduced by us may not achieve consumer acceptance comparable to that of our existing product lines. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products, or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brands. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our revenues and market share. 25 The effects of economic cycles, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war and military action both in the United States and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to procure our products from manufacturers for sale to our customers. Any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on consumer purchases of our products. Seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal cycles, the timing of new product introductions, the timing of orders by our customers and the mix of product sales demand. Our business is seasonal by nature. A significant portion of our net sales and operating income are generated during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, which includes the Christmas season. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the fourth quarter depends upon the anticipated level of retail sales during the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In addition, the amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter depends in part upon the actual level of retail sales during the Christmas season. The seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income during the first and fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. The loss of any of our license agreements, pursuant to which a number of our products are produced, may result in the loss of significant revenues and may adversely affect our business. A portion of our growth in sales and net income is, and is expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of products produced under license agreements with third parties. Under these license agreements, we generally have the right to produce, market and distribute certain products utilizing the brand names of other companies. We sell products under certain licensed brands, including, but not limited to, ADIDAS, EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DIESEL, DKNY, MARC BY MARC JACOBS and MICHAEL Michael Kors. Sales of our licensed products amounted to 30.3% of our sales for fiscal year 2006, with certain individual licensed brands accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. Our material license agreements have various expiration dates between 2007 and 2012. In addition, certain license agreements may require us to make minimum royalty payments, subject us to restrictive covenants or require us to comply with certain other obligations and may be terminated by the licensor if these or other conditions are not met or upon certain events. We may not be able to continue to meet our obligations or fulfill the conditions under these agreements in the future. In addition, we may be unable to renew our existing license agreements beyond the current term or obtain new license agreements to replace any lost license agreements on similar economic terms or at all. The failure by us to maintain or renew one or more of our existing material license agreements could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 26 Our license agreements may require minimum royalty commitments regardless of the level of product sales under these agreements. With respect to our license agreements, we have in the past experienced, and could again in the future experience, instances where minimum royalty commitments under these agreements exceeded royalties payable based upon our sales of such licensed products. We incurred royalty expense of approximately $44.1 million, $34.6 million and $32.9 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We also have several agreements in effect at the end of fiscal year 2006 which expire on various dates from December 2007 through December 2012 that require us to pay royalties ranging from 3% to 20% of defined net sales. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials used by us in our products, or used by our third party manufacturers, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or ability to meet our customers demands. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs and weather conditions. In the future we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to our customers. We rely on third party manufacturers and problems with, or loss of, our suppliers or raw materials could harm our business and results of operations. All of our apparel, sunglass and leather goods and certain of our watch and jewelry products are produced by independent manufacturers. We do not have long term contracts with these manufacturers. In addition, we face the risk that these third party manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis, or at all. As a result, we cannot be certain that these manufacturers will continue to manufacture products for us or that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages for certain products and harm our business. Access to suppliers that are not Fossil subsidiaries is not guaranteed because we do not maintain long term contracts but instead rely on long standing business relationships, which may not continue in the future. A majority of our watch products are currently sourced or manufactured to our specifications by two factories located in China and Hong Kong, which are either wholly owned or majority owned by us and by one factory whose owner has a minority interest in a trading company we own, and, to a lesser extent, by owned or independent manufacturers in China, Hong Kong and Switzerland. Certain of our other products are currently manufactured to our specifications by independent manufacturers in international locations, including China, Hong Kong, Italy, Korea, Mexico and Taiwan. We have no long term contracts with these independent manufacturing sources and compete with other companies for production facilities. All transactions between us and our independent manufacturing sources are conducted on the basis of purchase orders. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain close relationships with our current suppliers and to develop long term relationships with other suppliers that satisfy our requirements for price, quality and production flexibility. 27 If an independent manufacturer or license partner of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. We have no control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers, or by one of our license partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturers or license partners labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or other countries in which the violation or divergence occurred, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers be found in violation of state or international labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. We extend unsecured credit to our customers and are therefore vulnerable to any financial difficulties they may face. We sell our merchandise primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide. We extend credit based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Should any of our larger customers experience financial difficulties, we could curtail business with such customers or assume more credit risk relating to such customers receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable relating to such customers could have a material adverse effect on the amount of revenues that we receive and our results of operations. We do not maintain long term contracts with our customers and are unable to control their purchasing decisions. We do not maintain long term purchasing contracts with our customers and therefore have no contractual leverage over their purchasing decisions. A decision by a major department store or other significant customer to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating strategy. Our ability to continue our sales growth is dependent upon the implementation of our growth strategy, which we may not be able to achieve. During recent years, we have experienced substantial growth in sales. Our ability to continue this growth is dependent on the successful implementation of our business strategy. This includes diversification of our product offerings, expansion of our company owned accessory and outlet locations and certain strategic acquisitions. If we are not successful in the expansion of our product offerings or our new products are not profitable or do not generate sales comparable to those of our existing businesses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Another element of our business strategy is to place increased emphasis on growth in selected international markets. If our brand names and products do not achieve a high degree of consumer acceptance in these markets, our revenues could be adversely affected. We also operate FOSSIL brand stores and other non FOSSIL branded stores and have historically expanded our company owned accessory and outlet locations to further strengthen our brand image. As of January 6, 2007, we operated 198 worldwide. The costs associated with leasehold improvements to current stores and the costs associated with opening new stores could materially increase our costs of operation, particularly if we decide to open more stores on a yearly basis than our historical averages. 28 We could be negatively impacted if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. As part of our growth strategy, we have made certain acquisitions, domestically and internationally, including acquisitions of FOSSIL stores previously operated under license agreements, acquisitions of certain watch brands, and acquisitions of independent distributors of our products. The integration of these and future acquisitions may not be successful or generate sales increases. When we have acquired businesses, we have acquired businesses that we believe could enhance our business opportunities and our growth prospects. All acquisitions involve risks that could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. These risks include: distraction of management from our business operations; loss of key personnel and other employees; costs, delays, and inefficiencies associated with integrating acquired operations and personnel; the impairment of acquired assets and goodwill; and acquiring the contingent and other liabilities of the businesses we acquire. In addition, acquired businesses may not provide us with increased business opportunities, or result in the growth that we anticipate. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations is a complex, time consuming, and expensive process. Combining acquired operations with us may result in lower overall operating margins, greater stock price volatility, and quarterly earnings fluctuations. Cultural incompatibilities, career uncertainties, and other factors associated with such acquisitions may also result in the loss of employees. Failure to acquire and successfully integrate complementary practices, or failure to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our competitors are established companies that have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including design and distribution. There is intense competition in each of the businesses in which we compete. Our moderately priced watch business competes with a number of established manufacturers, importers and distributors such as Anne Klein II, Guess?, Kenneth Cole and Swatch. Our fine premium branded and designer watch business competes with a number of established manufacturers, importers and distributors such as Gucci, Rado, Raymond Weil, Seiko and Swiss Army. In addition, our leather goods, sunglass, jewelry and apparel businesses compete with a large number of established companies that have significantly greater experience than us in designing, developing, marketing and distributing such products. In all of our businesses, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors who may have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than us. Our competitors include distributors that import watches, accessories and apparel from abroad, domestic companies that have established foreign manufacturing relationships and companies that produce accessories and apparel domestically. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely affected by our competitors and their competitive pressures in the watch, fashion accessory and apparel industries. We have key facilities in the United States and overseas, the loss or regulation of any of which could harm our business. Our administrative and distribution operations in the United States are conducted primarily from four separate facilities located in the Dallas, Texas area. Our operations internationally are conducted from various administrative, distribution and manufacturing facilities outside of the United States, particularly in Germany, Hong Kong and Switzerland. The complete or temporary loss of use of all or part of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29 Our warehouse and distribution facilities in Dallas and Richardson, Texas are operated in a special purpose sub zone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board. Although the sub zone allows us certain tax advantages, the sub zone is highly regulated by the U.S. Customs Service. This level of regulation may cause disruptions or delays in the distribution of our products out of these facilities. Under some circumstances, the U.S. Customs Service has the right to shut down the entire sub zone and, therefore, our entire warehouse and distribution facilities. During the time that the sub zone is shut down, we may be unable to adequately meet the supply requests of our customers and our company owned retail stores, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, relationships with our customers, and results of operation, especially if the shut down were to occur during our third or fourth quarter. Our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system could disrupt our computer system and divert management time. In 2003, we began implementing an enterprise resource planning system from SAP AG, a German software company. We implemented the new enterprise resource planning system in our U.S., Germany and France locations in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Over the next few years, we intend to replace our existing enterprise resource planning systems and other principal financial systems in certain other subsidiaries with software systems provided by SAP AG. Our current expansion plans may place significant strain on our management, working capital, financial and management control systems and staff. The failure to maintain or upgrade financial and management control systems, to recruit additional staff or to respond effectively to difficulties encountered during expansion could have a material adverse effect on our ability to respond to trends in our target markets, market our products and meet our customers requirements. The sustained disruption or failure of our systems due to force majeure or as part of an upgrade, conversion or other systems maintenance could result in the same adverse effects. Changes in the mix of product sales demand could negatively impact our gross profit margins. Our gross profit margins are impacted by our sales mix. Sales from our company owned full price retail stores and international and licensed watch businesses generally provide gross margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margin, while accessory products generally provide gross profit margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margin. If future sales from our company owned full price retail stores and international and licensed watch businesses do not increase at a faster rate than our domestic accessory business, our gross profit margins may grow at a slower pace, cease to grow, or decrease relative to our historical consolidated gross profit margin. We have also recently begun distributing private label product to the mass market channel at gross profit margins significantly lower than our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Although this business only represents approximately 2.5% of our consolidated net revenues, future growth in this channel at rates in excess of our consolidated net revenue growth rate could negatively impact our consolidated gross profit margins. Our industry is subject to pricing pressures that may adversely impact our financial performance. We manufacture many of our products offshore because such products generally cost less to make, primarily because labor costs are lower. Many of our competitors also source their product requirements offshore to achieve lower costs, possibly in locations with lower costs than our offshore operations, and those competitors may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry wide pricing pressures. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our production costs or our production costs increase and we cannot increase our prices. Our failure or inability to protect or enforce our intellectual property may harm our business. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We are devoted to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in those countries where we believe it is important to our ability to sell our products. However, we cannot be certain that the actions we have taken will result in enforceable rights, will be adequate to protect our products in every country where we may want to sell our products, will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to prevent sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights of others. The inability or failure to obtain trademark, patent or other intellectual property rights could materially harm our business. Additionally, we rely on the patent, trademark and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. Even if we are successful in obtaining appropriate trademark, patent and other intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Because we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in Hong Kong and China, we are significantly dependent on foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. Further, if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. 30 Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. An increase in product returns could negatively impact our operating results. We recognize revenues as sales when merchandise is shipped and title transfers to the customer. We permit the return of damaged or defective products and accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. Accordingly, we provide allowances for the estimated amounts of these returns at the time of revenue recognition based on historical experience. Any significant increase in product damages or defects and the resulting credit returns could have a material adverse impact on our operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 31 In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs, and affect how our stock trades. This could in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. Factors Relating to Our International Operations Factors affecting international commerce and our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from outside of the United States, and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations could account for an increasingly larger portion of our revenues. Our international operations are directly related to, and dependent on, the volume of international trade and foreign market conditions. International commerce and our international operations are subject to many risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below, including: recessions in foreign economies; the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions; limitations on repatriation of earnings; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries; longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing foreign operations; social, political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; our ability to finance foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; and U.S. government licensing requirements for exports. 32 The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected regions and decrease the profitability of our international operations, which may seriously harm our financial condition. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in certain international markets. We sell our products in certain international markets mainly through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in, and a resulting loss of, sales. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source a significant amount of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products purchased by our subsidiaries may be affected by changes in the value of the currencies, including the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, Danish Krone, Euro, Japanese Yen, Malaysian Ringgit, Mexican Peso, Norwegian Kroner, Singapore Dollar, Swedish Krona, Swiss Franc and Taiwanese Dollar. Due to our dependence on manufacturing operations in China, changes in the value of the Chinese Yuan may have a material impact on our supply channels and our manufacturing costs, including component and assembly costs. Changes in the currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Although we utilize forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risks (mostly relating to the Euro and the British Pound), if we are unsuccessful in mitigating these risks, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations. Because we are dependent on foreign manufacturing we are vulnerable to changes in economic and social conditions in Asia and disruptions in international travel and shipping. Because a substantial portion of our watches and certain of our handbags, sunglasses and other products are manufactured in Hong Kong and China, our success will depend to a significant extent upon future economic and social conditions existing in Hong Kong and China. If the manufacturing sources in Hong Kong and China were disrupted for any reason, we would need to arrange for the manufacture and shipment of products by alternative sources. Because the establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery, we are unable to predict whether such relationships would be on terms that we regard as satisfactory. Any significant disruption in our relationships with our manufacturing sources located in Hong Kong and China would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. Restrictions on travel to and from these and other regions, similar to those imposed during the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome in 2003, commonly known as SARS, and any delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products on account of SARS or other syndromes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer deadlines and timely distribute our products in order to match consumer tastes. Risks associated with foreign government regulations and U.S. trade policy may affect our foreign operations and sourcing. Our businesses are subject to risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulation in the countries in which our manufacturing sources are located, primarily Hong Kong and other parts of China. While we have not experienced any material issues with foreign governmental regulations that would impact our arrangements with our foreign manufacturing sources, we believe that this issue is of particular concern with regard to China due to the less mature nature of the Chinese market economy and the historical involvement of the Chinese government in industry. If regulation were to render the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impracticable, or if our current foreign manufacturing sources were for any other reason to cease doing business with us, such a development could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and on our supply, manufacturing and distribution channels. 33 Our business is also subject to the risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other charges or restrictions on imports, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. and foreign customs quotas, duties (including antidumping or countervailing duties), tariffs, taxes or other charges or restrictions, requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future or adversely modified, or what effect such actions would have on our costs of operations. For example, our products imported to the United States are subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of our business we may from time to time be subject to claims by the U.S. Customs Service for duties and other charges. Factors that may influence the modification or imposition of these restrictions include the determination by the U.S. Trade Representative that a country has denied adequate intellectual property rights or fair and equitable market access to U.S. firms that rely on intellectual property, trade disputes between the United States and a country that leads to withdrawal of most favored nation status for that country and economic and political changes within a country that are viewed unfavorably by the U.S. government. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to: quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the countries where our apparel producing facilities are located and foreign countries; and and customs duties imposed by the governments where our apparel producing facilities are located on imported products, including raw materials. Our apparel producing operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization, referred to as the WTO. Generally, such trade agreements benefit our apparel business by reducing or eliminating the duties and or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country. However, trade agreements can also impose requirements that negatively impact our apparel business, such as limiting the countries from which we can purchase raw materials and setting quotas on products that may be imported into the United States from a particular country. In addition, the WTO may commence a new round of trade negotiations that liberalize textile trade. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Many factors may cause our net revenues, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate and possibly decline which may result in declines in our stock price. Our net revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors may include, but may not be limited to, the following: fluctuations in market demand for our products; increased competition and pricing pressures; 34 our ability to anticipate changing customer demands and preferences; our failure to efficiently manage our inventory levels; our inability to manage and maintain our debt obligations; seasonality in our business; changes in our, and our competitors, business strategy or pricing; the timing of certain general and administrative expenses; completing acquisitions and the costs of integrating acquired operations; international currency fluctuations, operating challenges and trade regulations; acts of terrorism or acts of war; and government regulation. 35 One or more of the foregoing factors, as well as any other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, may cause our operating expenses to be unexpectedly high or result in a decrease in our revenue during any given period. If these or any other variables or unknowns were to cause a shortfall in revenues or earnings, an increase in our operating costs or otherwise cause a failure to meet public market expectations, our stock price may decline and our business could be adversely affected. Two principal stockholders own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis, our CEO, and Mr. Tom Kartsotis, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, each own a substantial amount of our common stock. As a result, they are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of elections of our directors, the adoption, amendment or repeal of our bylaws and any other actions requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders, and to otherwise influence our affairs. Our organizational documents contain anti takeover provisions that could discourage a proposal for a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a proposal for a takeover. These include a provision in our certificate of incorporation authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year, provisions in our bylaws establishing advance notice procedures with respect to certain stockholder proposals, and provisions requiring that action taken to remove a director without cause be approved either by an 80% vote of the Board of Directors or an 80% vote of the stockholders. Our bylaws may be amended by a vote of 80% of the Board of Directors, subject to repeal by a vote of 80% of the stockholders. In addition, Delaware law limits the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in certain business combinations with interested stockholders. Finally, Messrs. Kartsotis have the ability, by virtue of their stock ownership, to significantly influence a vote regarding a change in control. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis each own a substantial amount of our common stock. The shares beneficially owned by Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis may be sold in the open market in the future, subject to any volume restrictions and other limitations under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 144 thereunder. We may also decide to file a registration statement enabling Messrs. Kartsotis to sell additional shares. Any sales by Messrs. Kartsotis of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of their shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales could occur. These sales or the possibility that they may occur also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds in any equity offering in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Company Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2006, we owned or leased the following material facilities in connection with our domestic and international operations: 36 Location Use Square Footage Owned / Leased Richardson, Texas Corporate headquarters 190,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Warehouse and distribution 138,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Office 131,541 Owned Dallas, Texas Office, warehouse and distribution 517,500 Owned Eggsttt, Germany Office, warehouse and distribution 230,000 Owned Milton Keynes, United Kingdom Office, warehouse and distribution 20,155 Owned New York, New York General office and showroom 26,552 Lease expiring in 2016 Hong Kong Office, warehouse and distribution 44,590 Lease expiring in 2007 Basel, Switzerland European headquarters 36,113 Lease expiring in 2013 China Manufacturing 110,231 Lease expiring in 2008 We also lease certain other manufacturing and or office, warehouse and or distribution facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Los Angeles, California; Miami, Florida; Biel, Switzerland; Sweden; Taiwan; Hong Kong; Malaysia; Mexico; Singapore; New Zealand; the United Kingdom; Australia; Japan; Canada; Netherlands; China; and Italy and own an office, warehouse and watch repair facility in France. 37 U.S. based Apparel Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2006, we had entered into 34 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of our apparel line and certain of our accessory products, which include leases for two new stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2007. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2018. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. U.S. based Accessory Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2006, we had entered into 49 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of our full assortment of accessory products including our Modern Watch Co. stores, which include leases for two new stores, that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2007. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2008 to 2018. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. U.S. based Outlet Store Facilities. We lease retail space at selected outlet centers throughout the United States for the sale of our products. As of the end of fiscal year 2006 we had entered into 74 such leases. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2006 to 2018, and provide for minimum annual rentals and for the payment of additional rent based on a percentage of sales above specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs at each outlet center, including, real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. International Store Facilities. At the end of fiscal year 2006, we had entered into 47 lease agreements for retail stores located outside the U.S., including leases for 2 stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2007. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2007 to 2015. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. We believe that our existing facilities are well maintained and in good operating condition. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Three shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, naming us as a nominal defendant and naming all of our then current directors and certain of our current and former officers and directors as defendants. The first suit, captioned City of Pontiac Policemans and Firemans Retirement System, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Tom Kartsotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Michael L. Kovar, Michael W. Barnes, Mark D. Quick, Randy S. Kercho, Jal S. Shroff, Randy S. Hyne, Thomas R. Tunnel, Richard H. Gundy, Kenneth W. Anderson, Andrea Camerana, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, Donald J. Stone and Cadence Wang (Cause No. 3 06CV1672 P), was filed on September 13, 2006. The second suit, captioned Robert B. Minich, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Tom Karstotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Michael L. Kovar, Michael W. Barnes, Mark D. Quick, Randy S. Kercho, Jal S. Shroff, Randy S. Hyne, Thomas R. Tunnel, Richard H. Gundy, Kenneth W. Anderson, Andrea Camerana, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, Donald J. Stone and Cadence Wang (Cause No. 3 06CV1977 M), was filed on October 26, 2006. The third suit, captioned Robert Neel, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Michael W. Barnes, Richard H. Gundy, Randy S. Kercho, Mark D. Quick, Tom Kartsotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Jal S. Shroff, T. R. Tunnell, Michael L. Kovar, Donald J. Stone, Kenneth W. Anderson, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, and Fossil, Inc. (Cause No. 3 06CV2264 G), was filed on December 8, 2006. The complaints allege purported violations of federal securities laws and state law claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, constructive fraud, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and gross mismanagement in connection with certain stock option grants made by us. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to these claims, and we intend to assert a vigorous defense to the litigation. The ultimate liability with respect to these claims cannot be determined at this time; however, we do not expect this matter to have a material impact on our financial position, operations or liquidity. 38 On November 14, 2006, we self reported to the staff of the SEC that a Special Committee, consisting of certain independent members of our Board of Directors, was voluntarily reviewing our historical equity granting practices. In a letter dated November 28, 2006, the SEC staff advised us that it had commenced an informal inquiry regarding our stock option grants and related accounting. We cooperated fully with this inquiry. In a letter dated July 20, 2007, the SEC staff has informed us that their investigation has been completed and they do not intend to recommend any enforcement action by the SEC. As a result of our option investigation, we were delinquent in filing certain of our periodic reports with the SEC, and consequently we were not in compliance with NASDAQs Marketplace Rules. As a result, we received a total of three delisting notices from the NASDAQ, and we underwent a review and hearing process with the NASDAQ to determine our listing status. NASDAQ ultimately permitted our securities to remain listed on the NASDAQ as a result of a stay from the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Counsel. With the filing of this annual report on Form 10 K and other delinquent filings, we believe that we will remedy our non compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to NASDAQs affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its notification of the Company accordingly. However, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past equity grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that might result in delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. There are no other legal proceedings to which we are a party or to which our properties are subject, other than routine litigation incident to our business, which is not material to our consolidated financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matter was submitted to a vote of our stockholders during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. 39 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol FOSL. Quotation of our Common Stock began on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on April 8, 1993. The following table sets forth the range of quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the fiscal years ended January 6, 2007 and December 31, 2005. High Low Fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006: First Quarter $ 23.840 $ 16.670 Second Quarter 19.250 15.890 Third Quarter 22.160 16.960 Fourth Quarter 23.400 20.590 Fiscal year beginning January 2, 2005: First Quarter $ 28.950 $ 23.970 Second Quarter 25.910 18.900 Third Quarter 25.080 17.820 Fourth Quarter 22.090 14.960 As of July 26, 2007, there were 149 holders of record, although we believe that the number of beneficial owners is much larger. Cash Dividend Policy. We did not pay any cash dividends in 2005 or 2006. We expect that we will retain all available earnings generated by our operations for the development and growth of our business and common stock buyback programs and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to a cash dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Common Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph compares the cumulative return of the Common Stock over the preceding five year periods with that of the Broad Market (CRSP Total Return Index of the NASDAQ Global Select Market (US)) and the NASDAQ Retail Trade Stocks. Each Index assumes $100 invested at December 31, 2001 and is calculated assuming quarterly reinvestment of dividends and quarterly weighting by market capitalization. 40 2006 COMPARATIVE TOTAL RETURNS Fossil, Inc., NASDAQ Global Select Market and NASDAQ Market Retail Trades Group (Performance Results through 12/31/06) 12/31/01 12/31/02 12/31/03 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 Fossil, Inc. 100.00 145.34 200.96 274.81 230.55 242.02 NASDAQ Global Select Market 100.00 69.13 103.36 112.49 114.88 126.21 NASDAQ Retail Trades 100.00 84.97 118.32 150.07 151.49 165.45 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities We had no sales of unregistered securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. 41 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereon. The information presented in the following tables has been adjusted to reflect effects of the restatement of the Companys financial results, which is more fully described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 and Note 2, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Fiscal Year 2006 2005 (1) 2004 (1) 2003 (5) 2002 (5) As Restated As Restated As Restated As Restated IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 1,213,965 $ 1,043,120 $ 957,309 $ 781,175 $ 663,338 Gross profit 608,919 535,140 502,610 398,018 334,008 Operating income 123,325 108,988 131,135 105,645 94,931 Income before taxes 118,795 102,948 136,208 106,492 94,680 Net income 77,582 75,670 89,545 66,076 57,728 Earnings per share: (4) Basic 1.15 1.07 (2) 1.27 (3) 0.95 0.84 Diluted 1.13 1.04 (2) 1.23 (3) 0.92 0.81 Weighted average common and common equivalent shares outstanding: (4) Basic 67,177 70,476 70,367 69,591 68,987 Diluted 68,817 72,424 72,998 71,935 71,316 Working capital $ 357,608 $ 326,502 $ 369,864 $ 311,709 $ 242,404 Total assets 852,597 745,142 783,423 587,738 483,287 Other long term liabilities 7,893 6,692 1,487 Stockholders equity 602,201 526,317 524,426 422,974 341,576 Return on average stockholders equity 14.2 % 14.0 % 19.2 % 17.8 % $ 23.6 % (1) See the "Explanatory Note" immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 and Note 2, "Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements", in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K. (2) Includes a one time tax benefit of $12 million related to the repatriation of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. Excluding this benefit, net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share would have been approximately $63.7 million, $0.90, and $0.88, respectively. (3) Includes one time after tax charges related to cumulative rent expense adjustments and settlement of a supplier claim of $2.0 million and $550,000 respectively. Excluding these one time charges, net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share were $92.1 million, $1.31 and $1.26, respectively. (4) All share and per share price data have been adjusted to reflect three for two stock splits effected in the form of stock dividends paid on June 7, 2002, and April 8, 2004. Management has provided the following non GAAP financial information so that investors can more easily compare financial performance of the Companys current business operations from period to period. A reconciliation to the nearest GAAP financial measure is shown in the table below. Fiscal Year 2005 2004 Net Income 75,670 89,545 Less one time tax benefit 12,000 (2) Plus: Rent expense 2,000 (3) Supplier claim 550 (3) Proforma net income 63,670 92,095 Proforma earnings per share: Basic 0.90 1.31 Diluted 0.88 1.26 42 (5) The selected financial data for 2003 and 2002 has been restated to reflect adjustments related to stock based compensation expense, other corrections of errors in our prior year financial statements and the associated tax impact as further described in the "Explanatory Note" immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10 K. As a result of these adjustments, net income was reduced by $2.3 million and $1.2 million for the years ended 2003 and 2002, respectively as follows: 2003 2002 As Reported Adjustments As Restated As Reported Adjustments As Restated Net sales $ 781,175 $ $ 781,175 $ 663,338 $ $ 663,338 Gross profit 399,023 (1,005 ) 398,018 333,003 1,005 334,008 Operating income 108,808 (3,163 ) 105,645 95,930 (999 ) 94,931 Income before taxes 109,471 (2,979 ) 106,492 95,979 (1,299 ) 94,680 Net income 68,335 (2,259 ) 66,076 58,907 (1,179 ) 57,728 Earnings per share: Basic 0.98 n/a 0.95 0.85 n/a 0.84 Diluted 0.93 n/a 0.92 0.81 n/a 0.81 Weighted average common and common equivalent shares outstanding: Basic 69,817 (226 ) 69,591 68,990 (3 ) 68,987 Diluted 73,182 (1,247 ) 71,935 72,357 (1,041 ) 71,316 Working capital $ 313,561 $ (1,852 ) $ 311,709 $ 241,177 $ 1,227 $ 242,404 Total assets 587,541 197 587,738 482,526 761 483,287 Other long term liabilities Stockholders equity 423,426 (452 ) 422,974 340,541 1,035 341,576 Return on average stockholders equity 18.4 % n/a 17.8 % 19.9 % n/a 23.6 % Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. Since our inception in 1984, we have grown into a global accessory company with a well recognized branded portfolio of watches delivered over an extensive distribution network. Our extensive line of fashion watches includes our proprietary brands as well as brands licensed from some of the most prestigious companies in the world. We also offer complementary lines of handbags, small leather goods, belts, and sunglasses under the FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL, MICHELE, DIESEL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL apparel. Our centralized infrastructure in design/development and production/sourcing allows us to leverage the strength of our branded watch and jewelry portfolio over an extensive global distribution network. Our products are sold primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through 21 company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of approximately 56 independent distributors. Our wholesale business for leather and sunglass products is primarily conducted through U.S. and Germany department stores. Our foreign operations include wholly or majority owned subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. In addition, our products are offered at 198 company owned retail locations, located in the United States and certain international markets; authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks located in several major airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets; over the internet at www.fossil.com; and through our direct to consumer catalog. The expansion of our product lines worldwide and leveraging of our infrastructure have contributed to our operating profits and increasing net sales. 43 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements In June 2006, as a result of the wide scale scrutiny of employee stock option grant practices including a report issued on June 13, 2006 by UBS Securities LLC mentioning the Company, we began a review of our historical stock option practices in order to determine whether there were any improprieties related to the timing of our past stock option grants. We voluntarily undertook this limited review of the timing of stock option grants (the June 2006 Internal Review) to provide our Audit Committee with information so that it could make a determination as to whether a further, more detailed review appeared necessary or appropriate. The June 2006 Internal Review was conducted primarily as a review of the hard copy files maintained by us pertaining to the approval of grants since we went public in April 1993 and was focused specifically on whether there was evidence in the reviewed material of intentional back dating of grants to Section 16 officers during that period. On August 21, 2006, we provided the Audit Committee with a preliminary report on the results of the June 2006 Internal Review. Subsequent to that meeting, the Audit Committee instructed us to conduct further work with respect to such review. On September 13, 2006, a derivative lawsuit was filed against certain present and former directors and executive officers of the Company and the Company, as a nominal defendant, in connection with our stock option practices from 1996 to 2006. On September 19, 2006, the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission released a letter (the Hewitt Letter) discussing certain of the existing accounting guidance related to grants of stock options. The accounting guidance applicable to the grants in question was, in most cases, APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB No. 25). Subsequent to the Hewitt letter, we continued the June 2006 Internal Review with a focus on identifying whether the measurement dates of various grants were appropriate under APB No. 25. On November 11, 2006, our Board of Directors convened a special meeting at which (i) the updated findings of the June 2006 Internal Review were presented and (ii) the Board of Directors formed a committee consisting of five independent members of the Board of Directors to serve as a special committee of the Board (the Special Committee). The Special Committee was ultimately reconstituted on February 8, 2007, to consist of two independent members of the Board. On November 14, 2006, we announced the appointment of the Special Committee to voluntarily review our historical equity granting practices. The Special Committees voluntary review was undertaken with assistance from independent legal counsel, Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, and forensic accounting assistance from FTI Consulting, Inc. On May 7, 2007, we issued a press release announcing the results of the Special Committees review which are set forth in our Form 8 K filed on May 9, 2007. As a result of this review, we concluded, and the Audit Committee agreed, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial reporting purposes for certain equity grants made between fiscal years 1993 to 2006 and that the cumulative impact of incorrectly accounting for certain equity grant measurement dates would result in a restatement of our previously issued consolidated financial statements. As a result, we also announced on May 7, 2007, that due to such restatements, investors should not rely on certain of our historical financial statements and on related reports from our registered independent public accounting firm. During the course of its investigation, the Special Committee reviewed our historical equity granting practices, analyzed all stock option grant dates covering the period from our initial public offering in 1993 to December 31, 2006, conducted detailed reviews of stock option grants representing approximately 83% of the total option shares granted by us during such period, including all grants made in connection with our annual performance review process, collected and reviewed over one million documents and interviewed 58 former and current employees, directors and outside advisors. Certain findings from the Special Committees report include: With respect to annual mass grants made from 1994 to 2002, one new hire grant in 2003, two incentive grants in 1999 and 2001, and one promotional grant in 2000, all made under our Long Term Incentive Plan for employees (the LTIP), favorable grant dates were selected with the benefit of hindsight. 44 The 2003 to 2006 annual mass grants and certain new hire and other non annual mass grants made under the LTIP were not properly authorized and or used incorrect measurement dates, primarily as a result of administrative process deficiencies. We issued our 2003 and 2004 annual mass grants prior to favorable news releases, but no evidence was found that there was an intention to favorably set the timing of these option grants. One employee relocation grant in 1999 was timed to occur prior to a news release that was thought to be favorable. Two former and two current executives were involved in the grant date selection process for the annual mass employee grants under the LTIP, although the executives involved in the grant date selection process may have varied from year to year. The favorable grant dates selected were within the time period between the initial Compensation Committee meeting early in the year and the annual employee performance reviews, generally concluded by the end of April. While the two former executives were also beneficiaries of such grants, the grant date was the same as used for other employees in connection with our annual mass grants and at least one of the former executives believed selection of grant dates in that time period to be appropriate for the years in which such executive was involved. The two current executives involved in the process relied on our former general counsel as to legal matters and our financial department as to accounting matters and never received any stock options. Certain internal control weaknesses and process deficiencies permitted the use of incorrect measurement dates and the selection of favorable grant dates to occur. At the time, neither the Compensation Committee nor the Board of Directors (other than certain senior executives who also were Board members) was notified that grant dates were selected with the benefit of hindsight. There was no evidence of fictitious grants. There was no evidence of backdating, self dealing, or other misconduct with respect to stock options issued to members of the Board of Directors under the Non Employee Director Plan. The Board of Directors acted in good faith in exercising its duties with respect to the stock option program. Our current personnel and directors fully cooperated with the investigation. In light of its findings, the Special Committee made recommendations to the Board of Directors for corporate governance, management and process improvements related to our equity granting practices. The Board of Directors adopted all of these recommendations and resulting changes have been, or are in the process of being, made. A summary of certain of these recommendations and results is set forth below: We are, or are in the process of, instituting internal audit procedures relating to the option approval and documentation process; engaging an independent compensation consultant and or independent counsel (at least for a transitional period) and focusing on improving the Compensation Committee approval and oversight process; designating specific members of in house legal, accounting, and human resources staffs to oversee documentation, accounting and disclosure of all equity grants; widely distributing and explaining enhanced equity grant processes and documentation requirements; increasing automation of the equity grant record keeping process; improving process and controls regarding delegated grant authority; and improving training and education designed to ensure that all relevant personnel involved in the administration of equity grants understand relevant policies and requirements. 45 The Board of Directors has reprimanded certain senior executives for violations of our code of conduct and one senior executive has resigned. The Board of Directors has established a lead independent director, and will endeavor to add two new independent members by the end of 2007 and two additional new independent members by the end of 2008, provide continuing professional education for its members and adhere to its current term limit policy beginning in 2008. Annual grants will be determined in connection with annual performance reviews of employees, including executives. Generally, one annual grant date applies to all annual grants to United States employees, and another annual grant date applies to all annual grants to employees outside of the United States. Historical Equity Granting Practices The accounting under APB No. 25 relies heavily on the determination of the measurement date, which is defined as the first date on which are known both (i) the number of shares that an individual employee is entitled to receive and (ii) the stock option grant price, or purchase price, if any. Moreover, the final amount of compensation cost of a stock option is measured as the difference between the stock option grant price and the fair market value of the underlying stock at the measurement date. We typically granted stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights to employees during the first quarter of each year in connection with our annual performance review process although such grants for certain employees took place after the first quarter. Generally, these grants were made to employees, other than Section 16 employees, utilizing a process whereby our Compensation Committee, which exclusively included certain independent directors of the Company, would approve a pool of awards or have general discussion with our CEO or President regarding equity awards to be issued to non Section 16 employees. Our CEO or President would then allocate such awards to individual employees and determine exercise prices. Subsequent to such allocation, the Compensation Committee would typically document their approval of the final allocation of such awards by signing a unanimous written consent (UWC) at the next Board meeting (the Mass Grant Process). With respect to Section 16 employees, the amount, but not the terms, of equity grants were generally preliminarily reviewed or discussed by the Compensation Committee early in the calendar year and prior to establishing an exercise price. The terms, including exercise price, of the equity grants were determined by the Company at some time after the Compensation Committee meeting held early in the calendar year and on or before the next meeting of the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee would then document their approval of the final allocation of such awards by signing the UWC at the next Board meeting (the Section 16 Process). Previously, for equity grant awards in connection with our Mass Grant Process and Section 16 Process, we, in many cases, may have relied upon the as of date of the UWC as the accounting measurement date, which as of date, for certain years, was selected with the benefit of hindsight. However, based upon review of our equity granting process for awards made in connection with the Mass Grant Process and Section 16 Process, the measurement date of grants utilizing such as of dates did not meet the requirements of APB No. 25. Consequently, we believe such equity grant dates were selected in error because the grant price and the number of shares individual employees were entitled to receive were not determined with finality on the original grant date. We also award equity grants outside of the Mass Grant Process and the Section 16 Process that are primarily related to newly hired employees, promotions and acquisition activities (the New Hire Process). Generally, grants awarded to employees during the New Hire Process were dated as of the date of hire, the date of promotion or other relevant date for which the employee grant was being made. Subsequent to the grant date and generally within the next 90 days, the Compensation Committee would approve these grants through the execution of a UWC, which generally occurred at our quarterly Board of Directors meeting. We administered the same equity granting process for both the Section 16 and non Section 16 employees as it relates to these grants. Determination of Revised Measurement Dates for Equity Grants In analyzing our equity granting process from 1993 to 2006, we reviewed historical circumstances and patterns related to our equity granting practices, the requirements of our LTIP, Board of Directors meeting minutes, the minutes of our Compensation Committee or resolutions related to actions taken by the Compensation Committee, Form 4s, system meta data, payroll information including documentation associated with annual performance reviews, new hires and promotions and other evidence including Company e mail and related correspondence to determine the most appropriate measurement dates. 46 Section 16 Process. As it relates to the annual equity grants awarded to Section 16 employees, we relied upon evidence from the minutes of our Board of Directors or Compensation Committee meetings each year, Form 4s, payroll information including documentation associated with annual performance reviews or other evidential matter including Company e mails. The most appropriate measurement dates selected by us were based upon evidence that management with the appropriate level of authority had approved a final listing of awards and grant terms, including price, by employee to each Section 16 employee that were either, (i) included in the minutes of the Board of Directors or Compensation Committee meetings, or an exhibit attached thereto, (ii) contained in an exhibit to a UWC that listed each Section 16 employee and the number of options being granted, or (iii) contained in such other verifiable evidence that included the employees name, and number of options being granted and exercise price. In one case, subsequent to the measurement date being established, the number of options granted to a certain Section 16 employee had changed. In this instance we treated such revision as a modification and, accordingly, accounted for this modification in accordance with variable plan accounting under APB No. 25. Mass Grant Process. The measurement dates were selected based upon evidence that a final listing of employees and grant terms, including exercise price, had been determined and approved by management with the appropriate level of authority. Evidence of a measurement date was based upon Company e mails or other correspondence, including in many cases, certain payroll transmitted information, that provided evidence that the final allocation of equity awards had been completed. In a small number of cases we noted instances, where subsequent to the measurement date being established, the number of options granted to certain employees may have been changed. In these instances, we treated such revisions as a modification and, accordingly, accounted for these modifications in accordance with variable plan accounting under APB No. 25. New Hire Grant Process. For grants awarded to employees during the New Hire Process, the process generally followed a pattern whereby the number of options granted to employees and the grant price were finalized as of the employees date of hire, the date of promotion or other relevant date for which the employee grant was being made. We noted five instances where the original grant dates for stock options were made with the benefit of hindsight. Grant dates for these five awards, as well as other misdated awards related to the New Hire Process that were primarily the result of administrative process deficiencies, were revised to the most appropriate measurement dates and we have recorded the commensurate compensation expense for the periods affected. Process for Other Equity Grants. We reviewed our equity granting practices related to non stock option grants, primarily restricted stock grants, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights. As these types of equity instruments were granted during the Mass Grant Process and the New Hire Process, we used the same methodology for determining the proper measurement dates for these types of equity grants as we did in reviewing our stock option grants. In the event that the measurement date for these awards did not conform to the requirements of APB No. 25, we revised such measurement dates and have adjusted the financial statements for the periods affected. We also reviewed all stock option grants to directors made under our Non Employee Director Plan and determined that the original grant dates of stock option awards under this plan were in accordance with APB No. 25 and, consequently, no adjustments to compensation expense has been recorded in connection with such grants. We believe that completion of certain administrative procedures to document completion of the equity grant process, including those outlined in our LTIP, were not a determining factor in selecting the most appropriate measurement date. As such, we further believe that the most appropriate measurement date selected does not misrepresent the equity granting action. 47 The summary of evidence we relied upon to determine the most appropriate measurement dates for stock option grants to employees from 1993 to 2006 is detailed below. Evidence Relied Upon Number of Grants Percent of Total Number of Options Percent of Total Payroll information 2,794 44.8 % 6,714,275 34.4 % Board of Directors meeting minutes 1,212 19.4 % 6,138,796 31.4 % Company e mail 1,209 19.4 % 2,862,825 14.6 % Compensation Committee meeting Minutes 458 7.4 % 555,735 2.8 % International management meetings 275 4.4 % 732,236 3.7 % Company equity grant administration database 81 1.3 % 271,842 1.4 % Form 4 27 0.4 % 815,093 4.2 % All other evidence 183 2.9 % 1,454,112 7.5 % Total 6,239 100.0 % 19,544,914 100.0 % Based upon the available facts and circumstances surrounding our equity grant practices, we developed a methodology for determining the most appropriate measurement dates. For example, in connection with our Mass Grant Process, when there was not conclusive documentation or evidence of an earlier day, we generally used the date of our payroll transmittal. We believe this date was an appropriate measurement date since all information related to our annual performance review process, which included compensation adjustments and equity grants, would have been communicated to our employees at a time no later than this date. Our restatement for adjustments to pre tax stock based compensation expense for the years 1993 to 2005 was $13.9 million. Because the determination of the most appropriate measurement date is subjective, we performed a sensitivity analysis for all grants awarded during the Mass Grant Process, Section 16 Process and the New Hire Process. In performing this sensitivity analysis, we used the alternative measurements dates that corresponded to the highest and lowest price of our common stock during the relevant periods associated with such equity grants. The use of the date representing the lowest price of our common stock would have resulted in no change to the previously recorded pre tax stock based compensation amount. The use of the date representing the highest price of our common stock would have increased our restated amount of pre tax stock based compensation by approximately $2.1 million. Tax Impact of Revised Measurements Dates for Equity Grants We reviewed the implications of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 162(m)) which prohibits tax deductions for non performance based compensation paid to the chief executive officer and the four highest compensated officers in excess of one million dollars in a taxable year. We concluded that no adjustments are required to our previously filed financials statements in connection with the provisions of Section 162(m). As prescribed by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 409A), options determined to have been granted with an exercise price below the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date and vesting subsequent to December 31, 2004 and unexercised as of December 31, 2005 are considered to be in the money options and holders are subject to a 20% excise tax on any gains derived from the exercise of such options. For any options that vested subsequent to December 31, 2004 and were exercised from January 1, 2006 up to a certain time, we will reimburse holders for such excise tax and any interest or penalties related thereto. Including tax gross up amounts to be paid, we expect to record a pre tax charge of approximately $766,000 during fiscal year 2007 for such reimbursements. Additionally, we have determined that options to purchase approximately 2.0 million shares of our common stock held by current employees are subject to adverse tax consequences under Section 409A. In order to mitigate the unfavorable tax consequences to our employees under Section 409A, we plan to provide holders of affected options the opportunity to increase the exercise price of such options to the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. We also anticipate giving such option holders (excluding executive officers) a cash bonus for the increase in the exercise price and estimate cash payments to be made totaling approximately $2.0 million in January 2008 to option holders amending affected options. We expect to record this amount as additional compensation expense in fiscal year 2007. We will account for the modification of stock options in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R). The financial impact of this modification is not yet known but will be recorded in fiscal year 2007. 48 Prior to December 31, 2006, our executive officers elected to revise the original grant price of any in the money stock options that were vested and unexercised as of December 31, 2005 to the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date to avoid the adverse tax consequences of Section 409A. For all stock option grants awarded to our executive officers for which the original grant price was incorrect, and that have been exercised to date, we will request that such officers reimburse to us an amount equal to the difference between the original grant price and the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date multiplied by the number of shares of common stock so excercised, net of any allocable portion of income taxes paid in connection with such exercise, which we approximate to be $734,000. Unrelated to the Special Committees review, we also identified that certain grants previously awarded to employees as incentive stock options should have been treated as non qualified stock options. Due to different tax requirements associated with the exercise of incentive stock options versus non qualified stock options, we have determined that certain employer and employee FICA taxes and employee withholding taxes were not properly withheld at the time such options were exercised by its employees. As a result, we will pay on behalf of such employees, any additional taxes that should have been withheld and remitted to the appropriate taxing authority, as well as any amounts due from the Company. We approximate this amount to be $4.4 million, including interest and penalties, for which $1.4 million has been included in our restatement adjustments, $253,000 has been included in our 2006 general and administrative expenses and $2.8 million is expected to be recorded in fiscal year 2007. Restatement Adjustments After comparing the most appropriate measurement dates to the original grant dates we used in preparing our historical consolidated financial statements, we determined that certain equity grants were awarded at exercise prices below the fair market value of our common stock on the measurement date. As a result, we have recorded additional pre tax stock based compensation expense of approximately $2.4 million and $1.9 million relating to the correction of the measurement dates in restating our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for years ended December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005, respectively. In addition, we are also restating our beginning retained earnings balance for the year ended January 1, 2005 by approximately $7.3 million for the cumulative impact of the additional compensation expense related to fiscal years 1993 through 2003. In addition to the adjustments related to stock based compensation discussed above, we are correcting other errors in our prior year financial statements. These errors were not previously recorded as we believed the amounts of these errors, both individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, we have restated our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2005 to include: (i) an approximate $442,000 decrease in pre tax income related to additional employer and employee FICA taxes due, including interest thereon, in connection with the correction of classifying certain incentive stock options to non qualified stock options, (ii) an approximate $979,000 increase in pre tax income to reverse the impact of certain sales returns recorded in fiscal year 2005 that should have been recorded in fiscal year 2004, (iii) an approximate $207,000 decrease in pre tax income to adjust accrued liabilities related to certain management fees that should have been eliminated at the end of fiscal year 2004, (iv) an approximate $1.5 million increase in pre tax income related to the correction of an error in our analysis for store impairment, (v) a decrease in income tax expense of approximately $600,000 to reduce an accrual for tax penalties and (vi) an approximate $2.4 million increase in income tax expense to increase certain tax contingency reserves, and (vii) an approximate $48,000 decrease in income tax expense resulting from the impact of the pre tax adjustments on additional stock based compensation expense and the other adjustments described in items (i) through (iv) above. The consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and cash flows for the year ended January 1, 2005 have been restated to include the following adjustments related to other errors in our prior year financial statements: (i) an approximate $864,000 decrease in pre tax income related to additional employer and employee FICA taxes due, including interest thereon, in connection with our correction of classifying certain incentive stock options to non qualified stock options, (ii) an approximate $979,000 decrease in pre tax income related to increasing our allowance for sales returns, (iii) an approximate $207,000 increase in pre tax income to adjust accrued liabilities related to certain management fees that should have been eliminated at the end of fiscal year 2004, (iv) an approximate $863,000 decrease in pre tax income related to the correction of an error in our analysis for store impairment, and (v) a $484,000 decrease in pre tax income related to the correction of foreign currency losses previously reported, (vi) an approximate $2.4 million decrease in income tax expense to reduce certain tax contingency reserves and an approximate $1.4 million decrease in income tax expense resulting from the impact of the pre tax adjustments described in items (i) through (v) above. 49 The accompanying managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation give effect to the restatement discussed in Note 2 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements included in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, long lived asset impairment and impairment of goodwill and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than tradenames whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statements of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our company owned retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. 50 Impairment of Goodwill and Tradenames. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the book value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies and market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the book value of the reporting unit, no impairment loss is recognized. We evaluate tradenames annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to the book value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and 2005, we performed the required annual impairment tests and determined that no goodwill or tradename impairment existed. Income Taxes. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested, thus reducing our overall income tax expense. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding significant or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate. New Accounting Standards. In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS 159). The fair value option permits entities to choose to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value at specified election dates. The entity will report unrealized gains and losses on the items on which it has elected the fair value option in earnings. SFAS 159 is effective beginning in our fiscal year 2008. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting SFAS 159, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). This Standard provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. Under SFAS 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. This standard primarily applies to those assets or liabilities that do not have a quoted market price. SFAS 157 is effective beginning in our fiscal year 2008. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting SFAS 157, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In June 2006, the FASB released Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). FIN 48 supplements FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, by defining the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more likely than not" to be sustained by the taxing authority. Tax benefits associated with positions taken or to be taken on tax returns where there is uncertainty as to whether the position will be challenged by the taxing authorities will be impacted by FIN 48. 51 FIN 48 is effective for our fiscal year 2007. FIN 48 establishes a two step process for the recognition and measurement of the amount of benefit to be recorded in the financial statements for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This process requires the enterprise first to determine whether is it more likely than not that the tax position taken will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, on the basis of the technical merits of the position. FIN 48 requires that an enterprise measure the amount of recognizable tax benefit for each tax position meeting the recognition threshold as the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The cumulative effects of applying this interpretation will result in a decrease of $6.1 million to the 2007 opening balance of retained earnings as a change in accounting principle. In June 2006 The Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued Issue 06 3, How Sales Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net Presentation) (EITF 06 3). Questions have arisen whether various non income taxes assessed by governmental authorities should be presented gross or net in an entitys income statement. Non income taxes include sales tax, use tax, excise tax, value added tax, and various taxes related to specific industries. This issue was added to the EITFs agenda, and the EITF was asked to determine the approach that should be taken in determining whether some or all of these taxes should be presented gross or net in an entitys income statement. The consensuses in EITF 06 3 are effective for our fiscal year 2007. The adoption of EITF 06 3 will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, (SFAS 154).This standard replaces APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and FASB Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. This standard requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle be applied retrospectively with all prior period financial statements presented on the new accounting principle. SFAS 154 also states that a change in the method of depreciating a long lived asset be accounted for as a change in estimate that was effected by a change in accounting principle. Also, an error correction from previously issued financial statements should be called a restatement. See the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part 1, Item 1 and Note 2 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K. We believe we have complied with all requirements of SFAS 154. In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. Under SFAS 123R, public companies are required to measure the cost of services received in exchange for stock options and similar awards based on the grant date fair value of the award and recognize this cost in the income statement over the period during which an award recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 are no longer an alternative to financial statement recognition. Effective for our fiscal year 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under this transition method, the measurement and the method of amortization of costs for share based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of January 1, 2006, are based on the same estimate of the grant date fair value and primarily the same amortization method that was previously used in the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosure. For equity awards granted after the date of adoption, we amortize share based compensation expense on a straight line basis over the vesting term. Compensation expense is recognized only for share based payments expected to vest. We estimate forfeitures at the date of grant based on historical experience and future expectations. The effect of forfeitures on the pro forma expense amounts was recognized based on actual forfeitures. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we utilized the intrinsic value based method of accounting under APB No. 25, and related interpretations, and adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No.123. In connection with our restatement, prior to December 31, 2005, for stock options issued with an exercise price below the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant, we recorded compensation expense for this intrinsic value in accordance with APB No. 25. The adoption of SFAS 123R resulted in share based compensation expense of approximately $5.3 million ($3.4 million net of tax), or approximately $0.05 for both basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2006. Included in the $5.3 million was a benefit of approximately $165,000 resulting from the cumulative effect of changing from recognizing forfeitures on an actual basis to an estimated basis. In conjunction with the implementation of SFAS 123R, $5.2 million of deferred compensation, previously recorded as a separate component of stockholders equity, was reclassified into additional paid in capital. 52 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the years indicated. Percentage Percentage change from change from Fiscal Year 2006 2005 2005 2004 2004 Net sales 100.0 % 16.4 % 100.0 % 9.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 49.8 19.1 48.7 11.7 47.5 Gross profit 50.2 13.8 51.3 6.5 52.5 Operating expenses 40.0 13.9 40.9 14.7 38.8 Operating income 10.2 13.2 10.4 (16.9 ) 13.7 Interest expense 0.3 * Other (expense) income net (0.1 ) * (0.5 ) (212.0 ) 0.5 Income before income taxes 9.8 15.4 9.9 (24.4 ) 14.2 Income taxes 3.4 51.1 2.6 (41.5 ) 4.8 Net income 6.4 % 2.5 % 7.3 % (15.5 )% 9.4 % * not meaningful The following table sets forth our consolidated net sales by segment, and components of certain segments, and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment, and components of certain segments, for the fiscal year indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 International wholesale: Europe $ 378.7 $ 316.3 $ 304.3 31.2 % 30.3 % 31.8 % Other 171.8 142.1 127.2 14.1 % 13.6 % 13.3 % Total international wholesale 550.5 458.4 431.5 45.3 % 43.9 % 45.1 % Domestic wholesale: Watch products 239.0 232.5 230.5 19.7 % 22.3 % 24.1 % Other products 203.7 179.2 151.1 16.8 % 17.2 % 15.8 % Total domestic wholesale 442.7 411.7 381.6 36.5 % 39.5 % 39.9 % Direct to consumer 220.8 173.0 144.2 18.2 % 16.6 % 15.0 % Total net sales $ 1,214.0 $ 1,043.1 $ 957.3 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 53 Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 2 % % 18 % 20 % Other international wholesale 9 12 21 Domestic wholesale 9 9 Direct to consumer 1 24 25 Total 1 % 1 % 14 % 16 % Fiscal 2006 is a 53 week year as compared to a 52 week year for fiscal 2005. This extra week was included in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. We estimate this extra week increased net sales and operating expenses by approximately $16 million and $5 million, respectively, as compared to fiscal year 2005. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes attached hereto. European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. European wholesale sales growth was primarily due to sales volume increases in FOSSIL jewelry and FOSSIL and licensed brand watches, as well as the contribution from our new ADIDAS watch licensed business that was launched in early 2006. FOSSIL jewelry sales grew by 25.3% as a result of continued market share growth in Germany and from expansion into other parts of Europe. Net sales increases in our FOSSIL watch brand of 3.6% are the result of renewed innovation and design in our product offerings. Licensed watch brand net sales increases of 21.3% are related to market share growth in certain European markets and new styles introduced across many of our licensed brands. We also believe our watch businesses in Europe benefited from overall improved economic conditions during 2006 in comparison to 2005. Net sales from the ADIDAS watch brand, a newly licensed watch business we launched during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, contributed approximately $14.7 million to European net sales. 54 Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. Other international wholesale sales include sales from our Asia Pacific and Canada subsidiaries, export sales from the United States and sales from our Mexico business that was acquired in early 2006. Net sales increases from this segment of our businesses were principally related to sales volume growth in our licensed brand watches. Licensed watches increased by 24.6%, principally related to renewed innovation and design in new styles introduced into this segment of our business during 2006 and further penetration of certain licensed brands into many of our Asian Pacific markets. Generally, our international unit wholesale sales prices for watch styles, comparable to those styles in the United States, have historically been higher than our United States unit wholesale sales prices. We believe this is a result of a less competitive market for global fashion and designer brand watches in comparison to those sold in the United States. As a result, in the international market we believe our brands compete with more local and regional brands that do not possess the brand awareness or marketing strength in comparison to the brands included in our portfolio of watches. Furthermore, we believe the global recognition of our branded portfolio of watches positions us as a significant resource to retailers throughout the international marketplace. Our strategy is not to force any one brand into a specific market, but rather allow the market to dictate which brands are important based upon consumer preference. We believe our global distribution network and our design and marketing capabilities will allow us to acquire or license additional brands that will position us for further penetration internationally as we continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands. As an example, we believe the launch of the newly acquired ADIDAS licensed watch business in 2006 will further advance our product offerings in certain international markets and allow for long term leverage of our existing distribution infrastructure outside the United States while strengthening our competitive advantage. We believe ADIDAS compliments our existing portfolio of watches by providing us with a strong performance/sports brand. We also believe our jewelry businesses, including FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI and DIESEL, allow us to leverage our customer base and infrastructure within the international markets as these brands are sold to many of the same customers that purchase our watch products. For fiscal year 2007, assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar, our management believes the international wholesale segment will continue to grow at rate slightly higher than our estimated consolidated net sales. We expect growth in the Asia Pacific markets to be more pronounced due to the lower level of penetration we currently have in this region, the impact of opening our mainland China office in the fourth quarter of 2006 and our plans to expand our distribution into India. Domestic Wholesale Net Sales. Domestic watch sales increased 2.8% principally due to sales volume growth in mass market, licensed and RELIC brand watches. Our mass market watch business increased by $7.5 million, or 35.9%, and is primarily attributable to our successful partnership with Wal Mart that resulted in being recognized as Wal Marts Vendor of the Year for 2006 in the jewelry, watch and accessory division. We anticipate continued growth based on the success of our offerings and the significant opportunity that exists to expand both the number of doors and the level of penetration within the mass market channel. Licensed brand watch sales increased by 24.8% principally resulting from market share gains from our BURBERRY licensed brand and sales resulting from the launch of MARC BY MARC JACOBS and ADIDAS. Net sales from our FOSSIL watch brand declined by approximately 8.1% during 2006. Excluding the effect of discontinued product sales from both 2006 and 2005, the decline was approximately 10.1%. Although the FOSSIL brand net sales declined on a comparative full year basis, the brands performance strengthened consistently on a sequential quarter basis throughout 2006 and posted a 4.5% increase during the more seasonal fourth quarter of 2006. We believe this improved performance is related to renewed innovation and design in new styles introduced to the market during the year. Consumers seem to be responding to the newness and differentiation in our watch styles and have gravitated towards our higher price point styles resulting in average unit retail price increases of approximately 10% during the year. We also believe the introduction of our FOSSIL brand catalog in late 2005 and increased circulation in 2006, combined with continued investment in our web based marketing programs were instrumental in the overall improvement of the FOSSIL watch business during 2006. 55 Net sales from other domestic products, that primarily includes our leather and sunglass businesses rose 13.7% during the year as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL womens handbags and small leather goods, RELIC belts and gift categories and RELIC sunglasses. Although we have experienced strong double digit net sales gains in our womens leather goods categories over the last two years and are operating in fewer doors given the consolidation of Federated/May, our womens leather business continues to be very healthy on a comparable door basis. Net sales from our womens handbag and small leather goods categories increased by 10.1% and 14.3%, respectively. We are continuing to drive higher average unit retails in our handbag business by introducing new fabrics and leather as well as unique treatments to our product assortment. Also fueling the increase in our FOSSIL leather goods category has been the successful introduction of our mens bag business to the line this year. Net sales from RELIC belts and gift categories increased by 38.5% primarily due to the strength of our offerings in JC Penney and Kohls. Relic eyewear net sales increased by 67.9% during the year resulting from an expansion into new doors and additional displays. The significant presence of the FOSSIL brand within the moderately priced department store channel and the RELIC brand in JC Penney and Kohls continues to position our company as a leading supplier of watches and accessories in the United States. We believe, over the long term, opportunities exist for our domestic wholesale watch and accessories businesses to continue to improve and our expectations for net sales growth in the domestic wholesale segment of our business for fiscal year 2007 is in the mid single digit range. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 27.6% during the year as a result of a 19.8% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 7.4%. Net sales from our e commerce business increased 18.7% as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL leather goods and from the launch of newly developed non FOSSIL branded websites and FOSSIL catalog. We operated 198 stores at the end of the year consisting of 120 full price stores, including 41 located outside the United States, and 78 outlet locations, including 4 stores outside the United States. This compares to 170 stores at the end of the prior year including 98 full price stores, 30 of which are located outside the United States and 72 outlet locations, including one store outside the United States. We opened 36 new stores and closed 8 stores during the year. New accessory stores opened during 2006 reflect a redesign of our historical presentation to a more contemporary vintage image that focuses on a more aspirational lifestyle customer. The results of the new stores that have opened are meeting and in some cases surpassing our original expectations. Our retail strategy is to position our FOSSIL stores as the destination within the mall for customers to shop for accessories. We are currently targeting 50 to 60 new store openings in 2007, assuming the locations and economics meet our initial criteria. Our focus will be on our full price accessory concept in the United States and Europe, and to a lesser extent the Asia Pacific region. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin decreased 110 basis points in 2006 to 50.2% compared to 51.3% in 2005. This margin decline can be attributed primarily to a sales mix shift toward lower margin product sales in our international segment and the impact of increased discontinued product sales, through both non traditional channels and our outlet stores at lower than historical gross profit margins. To a lesser extent, gross profit margin further declined as a result of an increased sales mix in our domestic segment of lower margin mass market watches and higher markdown levels, primarily in the domestic accessories business, due to the transition of May Company stores to Federated. Additionally, gross profit margins were negatively impacted as a result of certain new styles added to our global watch assortment which generated lower gross profit margins than historical averages. However, we currently have an initiative in place that we believe will result in improved gross product margins across our various product lines beginning in the second half of fiscal year 2007. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin decreases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our higher margin producing full price company owned retail stores. 56 Our consolidated gross product margin is impacted by our diversified business model that includes but is not limited to: (i) a significant number of product categories we distribute, (ii) the multiple brands we offer within many of these categories, (iii) the geographical presence of our businesses, and (iv) the different distribution channels we sell to or through. The components of this diversified business model produce varying ranges of gross profit margin. Generally, on a historical basis, our fashion branded watch, jewelry and sunglass offerings produce higher gross profit margins than our leather goods categories. In addition, in most product categories that we offer, brands with higher retail price points generally produce higher gross profit margins compared to those of lower retail priced brands. From a segment standpoint, our direct to consumer business generally produces the highest gross profit margin to the Company as a result of these sales being direct to the ultimate consumer. Gross profit margins related to sales in our international wholesale segment are historically lower than our retail segment, but historically higher than our domestic wholesale segment primarily due to the following factors; (i) overall retail prices for comparable product sold in the United States are generally higher in our international businesses as a result of less competitive fashion and designer brands being offered in these markets, (ii) the product sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our domestic wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of watches, and (iii) the watch sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our domestic wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of higher priced licensed brands. As we move forward into 2007, we believe we have an opportunity to improve gross margins because we expect net sales growth to be more pronounced in our international wholesale and direct to consumer segments than our domestic wholesale segment. We also believe that our efforts to reduce our global inventory levels during 2006, which included significant levels of discontinued product sales at or slightly above cost, will allow us to improve our consolidated gross profit margin in 2007 as we expect reduced levels of discontinued product sales in 2007 in comparison to 2006. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $59 million during 2006 and, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 40.0% of net sales compared to 40.9% for the prior year. 2006 operating expenses increased approximately $3.4 million as a result of businesses acquired in 2006 and approximately $2.9 million due to foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the operating expenses of acquired businesses and the impact of foreign currencies, operating expense increases during 2006 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, rent and depreciation and amortization expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional headcount to support new initiatives, including the ADIDAS watch and new DIESEL and MICHELE jewelry businesses launched in 2006, non cash compensation expense due to the implementation of FAS 123R and increased payroll expense in connection with our retail store growth. Payroll expense increases also included an approximate $3.5 million associated with the additional week in the first quarter. Rent expense increased 21.0% primarily due to the expansion of our retail stores. Depreciation and amortization expense increases are primarily related to leasehold improvements and in store fixturing associated with new retail store openings during 2005 and 2006, additional hardware and software additions and depreciation related to the SAP implementation in France finalized in May 2005. Our management anticipates 2007 operating expenses (excluding expenses recorded in connection with the Special Committees review of our equity granting practices), as a percentage of net sales, to decrease slightly in comparison to 2006 levels, assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar. We expect this decrease to be more pronounced in the second half of the year, primarily due to the seasonality of our net sales. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. 57 Amounts in millions 2006 2005 Operating % of Net Operating % of Net Fiscal Year Expense Sales Expense Sales Europe wholesale 141.8 37 % 116.5 37 % Other international wholesale 52.8 31 % 43.3 30 % Domestic wholesale (1) 196.9 44 % 188.4 46 % Direct to consumer 94.1 43 % 78.0 45 % Total 485.6 40 % 426.2 41 % (1) Certain corporate costs not allocated to individual operating segments for management reporting purposes and intercompany eliminations for specific income statement items are reflected in the domestic wholesale segment. Operating Income. The decline in our gross profit margin was partially offset by the leverage in our operating expenses resulting in our operating profit margin decreasing to 10.2% in 2006 compared to 10.4% in the prior year. Excluding expenses recorded in connection with the Special Committees review of our equity granting practices and additional cost related to the restatement of our historical financial statements, management believes operating margin for 2007 could increase by 100 to 200 basis points compared to 2006 based upon the estimated improved gross profit margin and leveraging of operating expenses. However, as we continue to grow in the watch, jewelry and retail store segments, we believe we may continue to experience a greater percentage of our operating income in the back half of the year. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased by approximately $3.2 million to $3.6 million compared to $321,000 in 2005. This increase is related to the impact of higher outstanding borrowings under our revolving lines of credit that were principally used to fund approximately $85 million of common stock repurchases occurring during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and capital expenditures of $50.8 million during 2006. Other Expense (Income) Net. Other expense (income) net primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries and equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During 2006, other expense (income) net decreased favorably by approximately $4.7 million principally due to $2 million of currency gains recorded in 2006 compared to $3.8 million of currency losses in 2005. This favorable increase was partially offset by a $1.2 million reduction in equity in the earnings of our joint venture in Spain. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate increased to 34.7% during 2006 compared to 26.5% in the prior year. The lower effective tax rate in 2005 was the result of our ability, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, to reduce previously recorded deferred tax liabilities by repatriating foreign earnings at an effective tax rate substantially below the statutory rate at which these deferred tax liabilities were established. The Company expects its effective tax rate to be in a range of 37% to 39% in 2007. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: 58 Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale (1 )% 1 % 4 % 4 % Other international wholesale 1 4 7 12 Domestic wholesale 2 6 8 Direct to consumer 20 20 Total % 2 % 7 % 9 % European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. European wholesale sales growth was driven by sales volume increases in FOSSIL jewelry and licensed watches. These increases were partially offset by sales volume declines in FOSSIL watches. The sales volume growth in FOSSIL jewelry was mainly attributable to further penetration of the line in Germany as well as recent expansion into new European markets, primarily Italy and the United Kingdom. Net sales increases in licensed watches were primarily related to further penetration within existing markets as these brands continue to gain recognition. FOSSIL watch sales decreases were primarily the result of declines in the sales of core styles and weak consumer response to new styles launched during 2005 and our belief that the watch category in general experienced declines during 2005. Other International Wholesale Nets Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. Growth from other international wholesale sales was led by sales volume increases in our licensed watch businesses primarily resulting from expansion of these brands into additional retail locations. Fiscal 2005 net sales growth in our other international segment was negatively impacted by an approximate $4.7 million prior year special market sale that occurred in 2004. Domestic Wholesale Net Sales. Excluding the impact on sales growth attributable to acquisitions, domestic watch sales decreased 1.4% principally as a result of a 12.4% decline in FOSSIL watch sales and a 17.8% decline in RELIC watch sales. These decreases were partially offset by growth in our mass market business that launched in mid 2004. We believe that the decrease in sales of FOSSIL and RELIC watches was primarily due to a cyclical shift in consumer discretionary spending patterns away from the watch category during 2005. During 2005, domestic sales of our accessory and sunglass businesses rose 18.5% resulting from sales volume growth in FOSSIL womens and mens leather products as well as RELIC sunglasses. The womens handbag category was one of the benefactors of the shift in consumer discretionary spending in 2005 allowing us to not only experience increased sales in existing locations but also expand our presence in many other accessory product lines within the same customer base. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 19.1% during the year as a result of a 20.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 1.1%. Net sales from our e commerce business increased 16.7% as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL NCAA watches, MICHELE watches and FOSSIL leather products. In comparison to the prior year, 2005 comparable store sales increases were negatively impacted by declines in our FOSSIL watch business, which has historically accounted for approximately 60% to 65% of our overall retail store sales. Retail store sales were positively impacted by significant increases in sales from accessory products. We operated 170 stores at the end of the year, consisting of 72 outlet, including one located oustide the United States, and 98 full price stores, consisting of 30 full price stores located outside the United States. This compares to 136 stores at the end of the prior year consisting of 60 outlet and 76 full price stores, including 23 stores located outside the United States. We opened 37 new stores and closed 3 stores during the year. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin decreased 120 basis points in 2005 to 51.3% compared to 52.5% in 2004. This margin decline can be attributed primarily to a sales mix shift between the different segments of our business. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, 2005 net sales from our international and domestic wholesale watch segment declined by 300 basis points in comparison to 2004, while our domestic accessory segment experienced a sales mix increase of 170 basis points. Historically, gross profit margins generated from our international segment and domestic watch segment are generally higher than those experienced in our domestic accessories segment. In addition, we experienced higher freight cost as a percentage of net sales primarily due to fuel surcharges that were incurred during the second half of the year. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin decreases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our higher margin producing direct to consumer segment. 59 Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $54.7 million during 2005 and, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 40.9% of net sales compared to 38.8% for the prior year. Included in 2005 operating expenses is approximately $6.0 million related to operating expenses of businesses acquired in 2005. Excluding the operating expenses of acquired businesses, operating expense increases during 2005 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, advertising expense and depreciation and amortization expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional headcount to support new initiatives, including the MARC JACOBS watch launch in 2005 and the ADIDAS watch and new DIESEL and MICHELE jewelry businesses launched in 2006. Additional payroll cost increases were associated with the expansion of our European shared services center to support our SAP software solution roll outs and increased headcount in our European headquarters office in Basel, Switzerland. Advertising expense increased to $82.4 million. As a percentage of net sales, advertising expense remained constant with 2004 at 7.7%. Depreciation and amortization expense increases were primarily related to leasehold improvements and in store fixturing associated with new company owned retail store openings during 2004 and 2005, additional hardware and software additions and depreciation related to the SAP implementations in Germany and France finalized in August 2004 and May 2005, respectively. Operating Income. Gross profit margin reductions and increased operating expenses as a percentage of net sales resulted in our operating profit margin decreasing to 10.4% in 2005 compared to 13.7% in the prior year. Other Expense (Income) Net. During 2005, other expense (income) net decreased unfavorably by approximately $11 million as a result of $3.8 million of currency losses incurred in 2005 compared to $6.9 million of currency gains experienced in 2004. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 26.5% during 2005 compared to 34.3% in the prior year. During 2005, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, we were able to repatriate $165 million of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested and as a result received an 85% dividends received deduction for these eligible dividends. Since we had previously provided for income taxes to be paid on these foreign earnings at the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, less appropriate foreign tax credits, we released approximately $18 million of our previously recorded deferred tax liabilities. This reduction, offset by the actual taxes paid on these dividends, contributed earnings of approximately $0.17 per diluted share during 2005 that will not reoccur in 2006. The repatriated funds will be used to invest in qualified expenditures in the United States in accordance with our approved Domestic Reinvestment Plan. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. We believe that, to the extent inflation affects our costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our general business operations have not required substantial cash needs during the first several months of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame. Our cash holdings and securities available for sale as of the end of fiscal year 2006 increased to $140 million in comparison to $65 million at the end of the prior year. Of the $140 million of cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale at fiscal year end 2006, $88.2 million is held in banks outside the United States. The increase in cash holdings and securities available for sale is primarily the result of $148 million of net cash generated from operating activities less $61 million of cash used in investing activities and $20 million of cash used in financing activities. Cash flows generated from operating activities were primarily related to net income of $78 million, non cash items of approximately $26 million, $24 million of cash from increased accrued expenses and $18 million of cash from decreased inventory balances partially offset by $19 million of increases in accounts receivable balances. Cash flows used in investing activities were primarily related to fixed asset additions of $51 million. Cash used in financing activities were primarily related to $26 million in repurchases of common stock and $3 million in distribution of minority interest earnings. These items were partially offset by approximately $5 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $2 million of debt borrowings. 60 Aided by strong fourth quarter retail and web based sales, accounts receivable at the end of 2006 increased by only 10.0%, well below our net sales growth rate of 20.5% for the fourth quarter, to $155 million compared to $141 million at the end of 2005. As a result, average days sales outstanding decreased to 45 days from 51 days in the prior year. Fiscal 2006 ending inventory of $228 million represents a 5% decrease compared to $241 million in the prior year and the composition of the inventory is more current. The decrease in inventories is mainly attributable to the implementation of two key initiatives. First, we implemented strategies to adjust inventory purchases to match trailing trend results rather than purchasing inventory based on estimated but perhaps optimistic growth expectations. Secondly, we took advantage of opportunities for the reduction in our excess inventory by selling increased amounts of discountinued product through alternative channels as well as our own outlet stores. At the end of 2006, we had working capital of $358 million compared to working capital of $327 million at the end of the prior year. We had approximately $11 million of outstanding borrowings at the end of 2006 related to short term borrowings in the UK and Japan. In the first quarter of 2006, our UK subsidiary entered into a revolving credit facility with its primary bank allowing borrowings of up to 4 million GBP. Outstanding borrowings under the UK based facility were $7.7 million USD at the end of 2006 and bear interest at the aggregate of the margin, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and Mandatory Lending Agreement (MLA), costs, (6.17% on a combined basis at year end), due May 2007. These borrowings were used to acquire a new facility for our U.K. based operations. The remaining $3.4 million in borrowings are under a short term facility in Japan bearing interest at the Euroyen rate (approximately 1.38% at year end), due in June 2007. This facility is primarily utilized for working capital needs associated with our Japanese subsidiary. At the end of 2006 we had no outstanding borrowings under our $100 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility which bears interest at our option of (i) the LIBOR base rate (5.32% at year end) plus 50 basis points, or (ii) the lesser of (a) the higher of Wells Fargos prime rate (8.25% at year end) less 1.0%, or 3.0%, or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law. We have typically renewed this short term credit facility in September each year. During 2007, we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $40 to $50 million to principally cover information technology additions, acquisition of facilities associated with our European headquarters in Basel, Switzerland, new company owned retail store openings and other general maintenance requirements. We believe that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our capital needs during 2007. We also have access to amounts available under our credit facilities should additional funds be required. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table presents, as of January 6, 2007, a summary of our significant cash contractual obligations by payment date. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 8 and Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Total l Year Years Years 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Short term debt (1) $ 11,089 $ 11,089 $ $ $ Minimum royalty payments (2) 115,763 40,535 55,239 14,963 5,026 Future minimum rental payments 160,744 32,115 50,556 33,978 44,095 Purchase obligations (3) 51,828 51,828 0 0 0 Total contractual cash obligations $ 339,424 $ 135,567 $ 105,795 $ 48,941 $ 49,121 (1) Consists of short term credit borrowings in the United Kingdom and Japan and excludes contractual interest. (2) Consists of primarily exclusive licenses to manufacture watches under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. (3) Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. 61 Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Certain line items presented in the tables below, when aggregated, may not agree to the corresponding line items on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 due to rounding. Fiscal Year 2006 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 264,225 $ 259,238 $ 299,697 $ 390,805 Gross profit 133,014 127,034 148,106 200,765 Operating expenses 116,022 110,838 115,153 143,581 Operating income 16,992 16,196 32,953 57,184 Income before income taxes 15,492 15,610 31,941 55,752 Provision for income taxes 5,776 4,372 10,400 20,665 Net income 9,716 11,238 21,541 35,087 Earnings per share: Basic 0.14 0.17 0.32 0.52 Diluted 0.14 0.16 0.31 0.51 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 50.3 % 49.0 % 49.4 % 51.4 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 43.9 % 42.8 % 38.4 % 36.7 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 6.4 % 6.2 % 11.0 % 14.6 % Fiscal Year 2005 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA As Restated (1) Net sales $ 232,510 $ 226,235 $ 260,171 $ 324,203 Gross profit 121,162 117,252 136,210 160,514 Operating expenses 96,647 100,959 99,488 129,058 Operating income 24,515 16,293 36,722 31,456 Income before income taxes 21,912 13,881 34,385 32,770 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1,982 ) 4,228 12,691 12,341 Net income 23,894 9,653 21,694 20,429 Earnings per share: Basic 0.34 0.14 0.31 0.29 Diluted 0.32 0.13 0.30 0.29 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 52.1 % 51.8 % 52.4 % 49.5 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 41.6 % 44.6 % 38.2 % 39.8 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 10.5 % 7.2 % 14.1 % 9.7 % (1) See Note 2 in the "Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements" in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K. The following table gives effect to adjustments related to stock based compensation expense and the correction of other prior period errors: Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2005 As Reported Adjustments As Restated Net sales $ 324,203 $ $ 324,203 Gross profit 160,514 160,514 Operating expenses 127,129 1,929 129,058 Operating income 33,385 (1,929 ) 31,456 Income before income taxes 34,699 (1,929 ) 32,770 Provision for income taxes 12,534 (193 ) 12,341 Net income 22,165 (1,736 ) 20,429 Earnings per share: Basic 0.32 (0.03 ) 0.29 Diluted 0.31 (0.02 ) 0.29 Gross profits as a percentage of sales 49.5 % 49.5 % Operating expenses as a percentage of sales 39.2 % 39.8 % Operating income as a percentage of sales 10.3 % 9.7 % While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the back to school and Christmas season, generated approximately 73% of our annual operating income for 2006. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter of the following year as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. We currently believe that our inventory levels at our major customers at the end of 2006 were near their targeted inventory levels. As we continue to grow in the watch, jewelry and direct to consumer segments, we believe we will continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a percent of sales, we believe operating expenses will be more significant in the first half of the year when due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores, personnel and infrastructure costs incurred in the back half of the prior year carry into the following year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us. 62 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro, British Pound and, to a lesser extent, the Swiss Franc, as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of practices to manage this market risk, including our operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of foreign currency forward contracts. The use of these instruments allows management to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in 2006 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At year end we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 43.1 million Euro for approximately $56.2 million, expiring through December 2007 and approximately 3.6 million British Pounds for $7 million, expiring through June 2007. If we were to settle our Euro and British Pound based contracts at fiscal year end 2006, the net result would be a net loss of approximately $338,000, net of taxes. Exclusive of these outstanding foreign exchange contracts or other operating or financing activities that may be employed by us, a measurement of the unfavorable impact of a 10 percent change in the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc as compared to the U.S. dollar would have on our operating profits and stockholders equity is presented in the following paragraph. At fiscal year end 2006, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc involving balance sheet transactional exposures would have reduced net pre tax income by $6.6 million. The translation of the balance sheets of our European, United Kingdom and Switzerland based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2006, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $15.8 million. In the view of management, the risks associated with exchange rate changes in other currencies we have exposure to are not material and these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operation or cash flows. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. Since our inception in 1984, we have grown into a global accessory company with a well recognized branded portfolio of watches delivered over an extensive distribution network. Our extensive line of fashion watches includes our proprietary brands as well as brands licensed from some of the most prestigious companies in the world. We also offer complementary lines of handbags, small leather goods, belts, and sunglasses under the FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL, MICHELE, DIESEL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL apparel. Our centralized infrastructure in design/development and production/sourcing allows us to leverage the strength of our branded watch and jewelry portfolio over an extensive global distribution network. Our products are sold primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through 21 company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of approximately 56 independent distributors. Our wholesale business for leather and sunglass products is primarily conducted through U.S. and Germany department stores. Our foreign operations include wholly or majority owned subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. In addition, our products are offered at 198 company owned retail locations, located in the United States and certain international markets; authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks located in several major airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets; over the internet at www.fossil.com; and through our direct to consumer catalog. The expansion of our product lines worldwide and leveraging of our infrastructure have contributed to our operating profits and increasing net sales. 43 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements In June 2006, as a result of the wide scale scrutiny of employee stock option grant practices including a report issued on June 13, 2006 by UBS Securities LLC mentioning the Company, we began a review of our historical stock option practices in order to determine whether there were any improprieties related to the timing of our past stock option grants. We voluntarily undertook this limited review of the timing of stock option grants (the June 2006 Internal Review) to provide our Audit Committee with information so that it could make a determination as to whether a further, more detailed review appeared necessary or appropriate. The June 2006 Internal Review was conducted primarily as a review of the hard copy files maintained by us pertaining to the approval of grants since we went public in April 1993 and was focused specifically on whether there was evidence in the reviewed material of intentional back dating of grants to Section 16 officers during that period. On August 21, 2006, we provided the Audit Committee with a preliminary report on the results of the June 2006 Internal Review. Subsequent to that meeting, the Audit Committee instructed us to conduct further work with respect to such review. On September 13, 2006, a derivative lawsuit was filed against certain present and former directors and executive officers of the Company and the Company, as a nominal defendant, in connection with our stock option practices from 1996 to 2006. On September 19, 2006, the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission released a letter (the Hewitt Letter) discussing certain of the existing accounting guidance related to grants of stock options. The accounting guidance applicable to the grants in question was, in most cases, APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB No. 25). Subsequent to the Hewitt letter, we continued the June 2006 Internal Review with a focus on identifying whether the measurement dates of various grants were appropriate under APB No. 25. On November 11, 2006, our Board of Directors convened a special meeting at which (i) the updated findings of the June 2006 Internal Review were presented and (ii) the Board of Directors formed a committee consisting of five independent members of the Board of Directors to serve as a special committee of the Board (the Special Committee). The Special Committee was ultimately reconstituted on February 8, 2007, to consist of two independent members of the Board. On November 14, 2006, we announced the appointment of the Special Committee to voluntarily review our historical equity granting practices. The Special Committees voluntary review was undertaken with assistance from independent legal counsel, Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, and forensic accounting assistance from FTI Consulting, Inc. On May 7, 2007, we issued a press release announcing the results of the Special Committees review which are set forth in our Form 8 K filed on May 9, 2007. As a result of this review, we concluded, and the Audit Committee agreed, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial reporting purposes for certain equity grants made between fiscal years 1993 to 2006 and that the cumulative impact of incorrectly accounting for certain equity grant measurement dates would result in a restatement of our previously issued consolidated financial statements. As a result, we also announced on May 7, 2007, that due to such restatements, investors should not rely on certain of our historical financial statements and on related reports from our registered independent public accounting firm. During the course of its investigation, the Special Committee reviewed our historical equity granting practices, analyzed all stock option grant dates covering the period from our initial public offering in 1993 to December 31, 2006, conducted detailed reviews of stock option grants representing approximately 83% of the total option shares granted by us during such period, including all grants made in connection with our annual performance review process, collected and reviewed over one million documents and interviewed 58 former and current employees, directors and outside advisors. Certain findings from the Special Committees report include: With respect to annual mass grants made from 1994 to 2002, one new hire grant in 2003, two incentive grants in 1999 and 2001, and one promotional grant in 2000, all made under our Long Term Incentive Plan for employees (the LTIP), favorable grant dates were selected with the benefit of hindsight. 44 The 2003 to 2006 annual mass grants and certain new hire and other non annual mass grants made under the LTIP were not properly authorized and or used incorrect measurement dates, primarily as a result of administrative process deficiencies. We issued our 2003 and 2004 annual mass grants prior to favorable news releases, but no evidence was found that there was an intention to favorably set the timing of these option grants. One employee relocation grant in 1999 was timed to occur prior to a news release that was thought to be favorable. Two former and two current executives were involved in the grant date selection process for the annual mass employee grants under the LTIP, although the executives involved in the grant date selection process may have varied from year to year. The favorable grant dates selected were within the time period between the initial Compensation Committee meeting early in the year and the annual employee performance reviews, generally concluded by the end of April. While the two former executives were also beneficiaries of such grants, the grant date was the same as used for other employees in connection with our annual mass grants and at least one of the former executives believed selection of grant dates in that time period to be appropriate for the years in which such executive was involved. The two current executives involved in the process relied on our former general counsel as to legal matters and our financial department as to accounting matters and never received any stock options. Certain internal control weaknesses and process deficiencies permitted the use of incorrect measurement dates and the selection of favorable grant dates to occur. At the time, neither the Compensation Committee nor the Board of Directors (other than certain senior executives who also were Board members) was notified that grant dates were selected with the benefit of hindsight. There was no evidence of fictitious grants. There was no evidence of backdating, self dealing, or other misconduct with respect to stock options issued to members of the Board of Directors under the Non Employee Director Plan. The Board of Directors acted in good faith in exercising its duties with respect to the stock option program. Our current personnel and directors fully cooperated with the investigation. In light of its findings, the Special Committee made recommendations to the Board of Directors for corporate governance, management and process improvements related to our equity granting practices. The Board of Directors adopted all of these recommendations and resulting changes have been, or are in the process of being, made. A summary of certain of these recommendations and results is set forth below: We are, or are in the process of, instituting internal audit procedures relating to the option approval and documentation process; engaging an independent compensation consultant and or independent counsel (at least for a transitional period) and focusing on improving the Compensation Committee approval and oversight process; designating specific members of in house legal, accounting, and human resources staffs to oversee documentation, accounting and disclosure of all equity grants; widely distributing and explaining enhanced equity grant processes and documentation requirements; increasing automation of the equity grant record keeping process; improving process and controls regarding delegated grant authority; and improving training and education designed to ensure that all relevant personnel involved in the administration of equity grants understand relevant policies and requirements. 45 The Board of Directors has reprimanded certain senior executives for violations of our code of conduct and one senior executive has resigned. The Board of Directors has established a lead independent director, and will endeavor to add two new independent members by the end of 2007 and two additional new independent members by the end of 2008, provide continuing professional education for its members and adhere to its current term limit policy beginning in 2008. Annual grants will be determined in connection with annual performance reviews of employees, including executives. Generally, one annual grant date applies to all annual grants to United States employees, and another annual grant date applies to all annual grants to employees outside of the United States. Historical Equity Granting Practices The accounting under APB No. 25 relies heavily on the determination of the measurement date, which is defined as the first date on which are known both (i) the number of shares that an individual employee is entitled to receive and (ii) the stock option grant price, or purchase price, if any. Moreover, the final amount of compensation cost of a stock option is measured as the difference between the stock option grant price and the fair market value of the underlying stock at the measurement date. We typically granted stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights to employees during the first quarter of each year in connection with our annual performance review process although such grants for certain employees took place after the first quarter. Generally, these grants were made to employees, other than Section 16 employees, utilizing a process whereby our Compensation Committee, which exclusively included certain independent directors of the Company, would approve a pool of awards or have general discussion with our CEO or President regarding equity awards to be issued to non Section 16 employees. Our CEO or President would then allocate such awards to individual employees and determine exercise prices. Subsequent to such allocation, the Compensation Committee would typically document their approval of the final allocation of such awards by signing a unanimous written consent (UWC) at the next Board meeting (the Mass Grant Process). With respect to Section 16 employees, the amount, but not the terms, of equity grants were generally preliminarily reviewed or discussed by the Compensation Committee early in the calendar year and prior to establishing an exercise price. The terms, including exercise price, of the equity grants were determined by the Company at some time after the Compensation Committee meeting held early in the calendar year and on or before the next meeting of the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee would then document their approval of the final allocation of such awards by signing the UWC at the next Board meeting (the Section 16 Process). Previously, for equity grant awards in connection with our Mass Grant Process and Section 16 Process, we, in many cases, may have relied upon the as of date of the UWC as the accounting measurement date, which as of date, for certain years, was selected with the benefit of hindsight. However, based upon review of our equity granting process for awards made in connection with the Mass Grant Process and Section 16 Process, the measurement date of grants utilizing such as of dates did not meet the requirements of APB No. 25. Consequently, we believe such equity grant dates were selected in error because the grant price and the number of shares individual employees were entitled to receive were not determined with finality on the original grant date. We also award equity grants outside of the Mass Grant Process and the Section 16 Process that are primarily related to newly hired employees, promotions and acquisition activities (the New Hire Process). Generally, grants awarded to employees during the New Hire Process were dated as of the date of hire, the date of promotion or other relevant date for which the employee grant was being made. Subsequent to the grant date and generally within the next 90 days, the Compensation Committee would approve these grants through the execution of a UWC, which generally occurred at our quarterly Board of Directors meeting. We administered the same equity granting process for both the Section 16 and non Section 16 employees as it relates to these grants. Determination of Revised Measurement Dates for Equity Grants In analyzing our equity granting process from 1993 to 2006, we reviewed historical circumstances and patterns related to our equity granting practices, the requirements of our LTIP, Board of Directors meeting minutes, the minutes of our Compensation Committee or resolutions related to actions taken by the Compensation Committee, Form 4s, system meta data, payroll information including documentation associated with annual performance reviews, new hires and promotions and other evidence including Company e mail and related correspondence to determine the most appropriate measurement dates. 46 Section 16 Process. As it relates to the annual equity grants awarded to Section 16 employees, we relied upon evidence from the minutes of our Board of Directors or Compensation Committee meetings each year, Form 4s, payroll information including documentation associated with annual performance reviews or other evidential matter including Company e mails. The most appropriate measurement dates selected by us were based upon evidence that management with the appropriate level of authority had approved a final listing of awards and grant terms, including price, by employee to each Section 16 employee that were either, (i) included in the minutes of the Board of Directors or Compensation Committee meetings, or an exhibit attached thereto, (ii) contained in an exhibit to a UWC that listed each Section 16 employee and the number of options being granted, or (iii) contained in such other verifiable evidence that included the employees name, and number of options being granted and exercise price. In one case, subsequent to the measurement date being established, the number of options granted to a certain Section 16 employee had changed. In this instance we treated such revision as a modification and, accordingly, accounted for this modification in accordance with variable plan accounting under APB No. 25. Mass Grant Process. The measurement dates were selected based upon evidence that a final listing of employees and grant terms, including exercise price, had been determined and approved by management with the appropriate level of authority. Evidence of a measurement date was based upon Company e mails or other correspondence, including in many cases, certain payroll transmitted information, that provided evidence that the final allocation of equity awards had been completed. In a small number of cases we noted instances, where subsequent to the measurement date being established, the number of options granted to certain employees may have been changed. In these instances, we treated such revisions as a modification and, accordingly, accounted for these modifications in accordance with variable plan accounting under APB No. 25. New Hire Grant Process. For grants awarded to employees during the New Hire Process, the process generally followed a pattern whereby the number of options granted to employees and the grant price were finalized as of the employees date of hire, the date of promotion or other relevant date for which the employee grant was being made. We noted five instances where the original grant dates for stock options were made with the benefit of hindsight. Grant dates for these five awards, as well as other misdated awards related to the New Hire Process that were primarily the result of administrative process deficiencies, were revised to the most appropriate measurement dates and we have recorded the commensurate compensation expense for the periods affected. Process for Other Equity Grants. We reviewed our equity granting practices related to non stock option grants, primarily restricted stock grants, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights. As these types of equity instruments were granted during the Mass Grant Process and the New Hire Process, we used the same methodology for determining the proper measurement dates for these types of equity grants as we did in reviewing our stock option grants. In the event that the measurement date for these awards did not conform to the requirements of APB No. 25, we revised such measurement dates and have adjusted the financial statements for the periods affected. We also reviewed all stock option grants to directors made under our Non Employee Director Plan and determined that the original grant dates of stock option awards under this plan were in accordance with APB No. 25 and, consequently, no adjustments to compensation expense has been recorded in connection with such grants. We believe that completion of certain administrative procedures to document completion of the equity grant process, including those outlined in our LTIP, were not a determining factor in selecting the most appropriate measurement date. As such, we further believe that the most appropriate measurement date selected does not misrepresent the equity granting action. 47 The summary of evidence we relied upon to determine the most appropriate measurement dates for stock option grants to employees from 1993 to 2006 is detailed below. Evidence Relied Upon Number of Grants Percent of Total Number of Options Percent of Total Payroll information 2,794 44.8 % 6,714,275 34.4 % Board of Directors meeting minutes 1,212 19.4 % 6,138,796 31.4 % Company e mail 1,209 19.4 % 2,862,825 14.6 % Compensation Committee meeting Minutes 458 7.4 % 555,735 2.8 % International management meetings 275 4.4 % 732,236 3.7 % Company equity grant administration database 81 1.3 % 271,842 1.4 % Form 4 27 0.4 % 815,093 4.2 % All other evidence 183 2.9 % 1,454,112 7.5 % Total 6,239 100.0 % 19,544,914 100.0 % Based upon the available facts and circumstances surrounding our equity grant practices, we developed a methodology for determining the most appropriate measurement dates. For example, in connection with our Mass Grant Process, when there was not conclusive documentation or evidence of an earlier day, we generally used the date of our payroll transmittal. We believe this date was an appropriate measurement date since all information related to our annual performance review process, which included compensation adjustments and equity grants, would have been communicated to our employees at a time no later than this date. Our restatement for adjustments to pre tax stock based compensation expense for the years 1993 to 2005 was $13.9 million. Because the determination of the most appropriate measurement date is subjective, we performed a sensitivity analysis for all grants awarded during the Mass Grant Process, Section 16 Process and the New Hire Process. In performing this sensitivity analysis, we used the alternative measurements dates that corresponded to the highest and lowest price of our common stock during the relevant periods associated with such equity grants. The use of the date representing the lowest price of our common stock would have resulted in no change to the previously recorded pre tax stock based compensation amount. The use of the date representing the highest price of our common stock would have increased our restated amount of pre tax stock based compensation by approximately $2.1 million. Tax Impact of Revised Measurements Dates for Equity Grants We reviewed the implications of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 162(m)) which prohibits tax deductions for non performance based compensation paid to the chief executive officer and the four highest compensated officers in excess of one million dollars in a taxable year. We concluded that no adjustments are required to our previously filed financials statements in connection with the provisions of Section 162(m). As prescribed by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 409A), options determined to have been granted with an exercise price below the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date and vesting subsequent to December 31, 2004 and unexercised as of December 31, 2005 are considered to be in the money options and holders are subject to a 20% excise tax on any gains derived from the exercise of such options. For any options that vested subsequent to December 31, 2004 and were exercised from January 1, 2006 up to a certain time, we will reimburse holders for such excise tax and any interest or penalties related thereto. Including tax gross up amounts to be paid, we expect to record a pre tax charge of approximately $766,000 during fiscal year 2007 for such reimbursements. Additionally, we have determined that options to purchase approximately 2.0 million shares of our common stock held by current employees are subject to adverse tax consequences under Section 409A. In order to mitigate the unfavorable tax consequences to our employees under Section 409A, we plan to provide holders of affected options the opportunity to increase the exercise price of such options to the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. We also anticipate giving such option holders (excluding executive officers) a cash bonus for the increase in the exercise price and estimate cash payments to be made totaling approximately $2.0 million in January 2008 to option holders amending affected options. We expect to record this amount as additional compensation expense in fiscal year 2007. We will account for the modification of stock options in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R). The financial impact of this modification is not yet known but will be recorded in fiscal year 2007. 48 Prior to December 31, 2006, our executive officers elected to revise the original grant price of any in the money stock options that were vested and unexercised as of December 31, 2005 to the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date to avoid the adverse tax consequences of Section 409A. For all stock option grants awarded to our executive officers for which the original grant price was incorrect, and that have been exercised to date, we will request that such officers reimburse to us an amount equal to the difference between the original grant price and the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date multiplied by the number of shares of common stock so excercised, net of any allocable portion of income taxes paid in connection with such exercise, which we approximate to be $734,000. Unrelated to the Special Committees review, we also identified that certain grants previously awarded to employees as incentive stock options should have been treated as non qualified stock options. Due to different tax requirements associated with the exercise of incentive stock options versus non qualified stock options, we have determined that certain employer and employee FICA taxes and employee withholding taxes were not properly withheld at the time such options were exercised by its employees. As a result, we will pay on behalf of such employees, any additional taxes that should have been withheld and remitted to the appropriate taxing authority, as well as any amounts due from the Company. We approximate this amount to be $4.4 million, including interest and penalties, for which $1.4 million has been included in our restatement adjustments, $253,000 has been included in our 2006 general and administrative expenses and $2.8 million is expected to be recorded in fiscal year 2007. Restatement Adjustments After comparing the most appropriate measurement dates to the original grant dates we used in preparing our historical consolidated financial statements, we determined that certain equity grants were awarded at exercise prices below the fair market value of our common stock on the measurement date. As a result, we have recorded additional pre tax stock based compensation expense of approximately $2.4 million and $1.9 million relating to the correction of the measurement dates in restating our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for years ended December 31, 2005 and January 1, 2005, respectively. In addition, we are also restating our beginning retained earnings balance for the year ended January 1, 2005 by approximately $7.3 million for the cumulative impact of the additional compensation expense related to fiscal years 1993 through 2003. In addition to the adjustments related to stock based compensation discussed above, we are correcting other errors in our prior year financial statements. These errors were not previously recorded as we believed the amounts of these errors, both individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, we have restated our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2005 to include: (i) an approximate $442,000 decrease in pre tax income related to additional employer and employee FICA taxes due, including interest thereon, in connection with the correction of classifying certain incentive stock options to non qualified stock options, (ii) an approximate $979,000 increase in pre tax income to reverse the impact of certain sales returns recorded in fiscal year 2005 that should have been recorded in fiscal year 2004, (iii) an approximate $207,000 decrease in pre tax income to adjust accrued liabilities related to certain management fees that should have been eliminated at the end of fiscal year 2004, (iv) an approximate $1.5 million increase in pre tax income related to the correction of an error in our analysis for store impairment, (v) a decrease in income tax expense of approximately $600,000 to reduce an accrual for tax penalties and (vi) an approximate $2.4 million increase in income tax expense to increase certain tax contingency reserves, and (vii) an approximate $48,000 decrease in income tax expense resulting from the impact of the pre tax adjustments on additional stock based compensation expense and the other adjustments described in items (i) through (iv) above. The consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and cash flows for the year ended January 1, 2005 have been restated to include the following adjustments related to other errors in our prior year financial statements: (i) an approximate $864,000 decrease in pre tax income related to additional employer and employee FICA taxes due, including interest thereon, in connection with our correction of classifying certain incentive stock options to non qualified stock options, (ii) an approximate $979,000 decrease in pre tax income related to increasing our allowance for sales returns, (iii) an approximate $207,000 increase in pre tax income to adjust accrued liabilities related to certain management fees that should have been eliminated at the end of fiscal year 2004, (iv) an approximate $863,000 decrease in pre tax income related to the correction of an error in our analysis for store impairment, and (v) a $484,000 decrease in pre tax income related to the correction of foreign currency losses previously reported, (vi) an approximate $2.4 million decrease in income tax expense to reduce certain tax contingency reserves and an approximate $1.4 million decrease in income tax expense resulting from the impact of the pre tax adjustments described in items (i) through (v) above. 49 The accompanying managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation give effect to the restatement discussed in Note 2 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements included in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, long lived asset impairment and impairment of goodwill and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than tradenames whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statements of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our company owned retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. 50 Impairment of Goodwill and Tradenames. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the book value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies and market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the book value of the reporting unit, no impairment loss is recognized. We evaluate tradenames annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to the book value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and 2005, we performed the required annual impairment tests and determined that no goodwill or tradename impairment existed. Income Taxes. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested, thus reducing our overall income tax expense. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding significant or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate. New Accounting Standards. In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS 159). The fair value option permits entities to choose to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value at specified election dates. The entity will report unrealized gains and losses on the items on which it has elected the fair value option in earnings. SFAS 159 is effective beginning in our fiscal year 2008. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting SFAS 159, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). This Standard provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. Under SFAS 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. This standard primarily applies to those assets or liabilities that do not have a quoted market price. SFAS 157 is effective beginning in our fiscal year 2008. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting SFAS 157, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In June 2006, the FASB released Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). FIN 48 supplements FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, by defining the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more likely than not" to be sustained by the taxing authority. Tax benefits associated with positions taken or to be taken on tax returns where there is uncertainty as to whether the position will be challenged by the taxing authorities will be impacted by FIN 48. 51 FIN 48 is effective for our fiscal year 2007. FIN 48 establishes a two step process for the recognition and measurement of the amount of benefit to be recorded in the financial statements for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This process requires the enterprise first to determine whether is it more likely than not that the tax position taken will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, on the basis of the technical merits of the position. FIN 48 requires that an enterprise measure the amount of recognizable tax benefit for each tax position meeting the recognition threshold as the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The cumulative effects of applying this interpretation will result in a decrease of $6.1 million to the 2007 opening balance of retained earnings as a change in accounting principle. In June 2006 The Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued Issue 06 3, How Sales Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net Presentation) (EITF 06 3). Questions have arisen whether various non income taxes assessed by governmental authorities should be presented gross or net in an entitys income statement. Non income taxes include sales tax, use tax, excise tax, value added tax, and various taxes related to specific industries. This issue was added to the EITFs agenda, and the EITF was asked to determine the approach that should be taken in determining whether some or all of these taxes should be presented gross or net in an entitys income statement. The consensuses in EITF 06 3 are effective for our fiscal year 2007. The adoption of EITF 06 3 will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In May 2005, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, (SFAS 154).This standard replaces APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and FASB Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements. This standard requires that a voluntary change in accounting principle be applied retrospectively with all prior period financial statements presented on the new accounting principle. SFAS 154 also states that a change in the method of depreciating a long lived asset be accounted for as a change in estimate that was effected by a change in accounting principle. Also, an error correction from previously issued financial statements should be called a restatement. See the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part 1, Item 1 and Note 2 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K. We believe we have complied with all requirements of SFAS 154. In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. Under SFAS 123R, public companies are required to measure the cost of services received in exchange for stock options and similar awards based on the grant date fair value of the award and recognize this cost in the income statement over the period during which an award recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 are no longer an alternative to financial statement recognition. Effective for our fiscal year 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under this transition method, the measurement and the method of amortization of costs for share based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of January 1, 2006, are based on the same estimate of the grant date fair value and primarily the same amortization method that was previously used in the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosure. For equity awards granted after the date of adoption, we amortize share based compensation expense on a straight line basis over the vesting term. Compensation expense is recognized only for share based payments expected to vest. We estimate forfeitures at the date of grant based on historical experience and future expectations. The effect of forfeitures on the pro forma expense amounts was recognized based on actual forfeitures. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we utilized the intrinsic value based method of accounting under APB No. 25, and related interpretations, and adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No.123. In connection with our restatement, prior to December 31, 2005, for stock options issued with an exercise price below the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant, we recorded compensation expense for this intrinsic value in accordance with APB No. 25. The adoption of SFAS 123R resulted in share based compensation expense of approximately $5.3 million ($3.4 million net of tax), or approximately $0.05 for both basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2006. Included in the $5.3 million was a benefit of approximately $165,000 resulting from the cumulative effect of changing from recognizing forfeitures on an actual basis to an estimated basis. In conjunction with the implementation of SFAS 123R, $5.2 million of deferred compensation, previously recorded as a separate component of stockholders equity, was reclassified into additional paid in capital. 52 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the years indicated. Percentage Percentage change from change from Fiscal Year 2006 2005 2005 2004 2004 Net sales 100.0 % 16.4 % 100.0 % 9.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 49.8 19.1 48.7 11.7 47.5 Gross profit 50.2 13.8 51.3 6.5 52.5 Operating expenses 40.0 13.9 40.9 14.7 38.8 Operating income 10.2 13.2 10.4 (16.9 ) 13.7 Interest expense 0.3 * Other (expense) income net (0.1 ) * (0.5 ) (212.0 ) 0.5 Income before income taxes 9.8 15.4 9.9 (24.4 ) 14.2 Income taxes 3.4 51.1 2.6 (41.5 ) 4.8 Net income 6.4 % 2.5 % 7.3 % (15.5 )% 9.4 % * not meaningful The following table sets forth our consolidated net sales by segment, and components of certain segments, and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment, and components of certain segments, for the fiscal year indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 International wholesale: Europe $ 378.7 $ 316.3 $ 304.3 31.2 % 30.3 % 31.8 % Other 171.8 142.1 127.2 14.1 % 13.6 % 13.3 % Total international wholesale 550.5 458.4 431.5 45.3 % 43.9 % 45.1 % Domestic wholesale: Watch products 239.0 232.5 230.5 19.7 % 22.3 % 24.1 % Other products 203.7 179.2 151.1 16.8 % 17.2 % 15.8 % Total domestic wholesale 442.7 411.7 381.6 36.5 % 39.5 % 39.9 % Direct to consumer 220.8 173.0 144.2 18.2 % 16.6 % 15.0 % Total net sales $ 1,214.0 $ 1,043.1 $ 957.3 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 53 Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 2 % % 18 % 20 % Other international wholesale 9 12 21 Domestic wholesale 9 9 Direct to consumer 1 24 25 Total 1 % 1 % 14 % 16 % Fiscal 2006 is a 53 week year as compared to a 52 week year for fiscal 2005. This extra week was included in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. We estimate this extra week increased net sales and operating expenses by approximately $16 million and $5 million, respectively, as compared to fiscal year 2005. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes attached hereto. European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. European wholesale sales growth was primarily due to sales volume increases in FOSSIL jewelry and FOSSIL and licensed brand watches, as well as the contribution from our new ADIDAS watch licensed business that was launched in early 2006. FOSSIL jewelry sales grew by 25.3% as a result of continued market share growth in Germany and from expansion into other parts of Europe. Net sales increases in our FOSSIL watch brand of 3.6% are the result of renewed innovation and design in our product offerings. Licensed watch brand net sales increases of 21.3% are related to market share growth in certain European markets and new styles introduced across many of our licensed brands. We also believe our watch businesses in Europe benefited from overall improved economic conditions during 2006 in comparison to 2005. Net sales from the ADIDAS watch brand, a newly licensed watch business we launched during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, contributed approximately $14.7 million to European net sales. 54 Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. Other international wholesale sales include sales from our Asia Pacific and Canada subsidiaries, export sales from the United States and sales from our Mexico business that was acquired in early 2006. Net sales increases from this segment of our businesses were principally related to sales volume growth in our licensed brand watches. Licensed watches increased by 24.6%, principally related to renewed innovation and design in new styles introduced into this segment of our business during 2006 and further penetration of certain licensed brands into many of our Asian Pacific markets. Generally, our international unit wholesale sales prices for watch styles, comparable to those styles in the United States, have historically been higher than our United States unit wholesale sales prices. We believe this is a result of a less competitive market for global fashion and designer brand watches in comparison to those sold in the United States. As a result, in the international market we believe our brands compete with more local and regional brands that do not possess the brand awareness or marketing strength in comparison to the brands included in our portfolio of watches. Furthermore, we believe the global recognition of our branded portfolio of watches positions us as a significant resource to retailers throughout the international marketplace. Our strategy is not to force any one brand into a specific market, but rather allow the market to dictate which brands are important based upon consumer preference. We believe our global distribution network and our design and marketing capabilities will allow us to acquire or license additional brands that will position us for further penetration internationally as we continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands. As an example, we believe the launch of the newly acquired ADIDAS licensed watch business in 2006 will further advance our product offerings in certain international markets and allow for long term leverage of our existing distribution infrastructure outside the United States while strengthening our competitive advantage. We believe ADIDAS compliments our existing portfolio of watches by providing us with a strong performance/sports brand. We also believe our jewelry businesses, including FOSSIL, EMPORIO ARMANI and DIESEL, allow us to leverage our customer base and infrastructure within the international markets as these brands are sold to many of the same customers that purchase our watch products. For fiscal year 2007, assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar, our management believes the international wholesale segment will continue to grow at rate slightly higher than our estimated consolidated net sales. We expect growth in the Asia Pacific markets to be more pronounced due to the lower level of penetration we currently have in this region, the impact of opening our mainland China office in the fourth quarter of 2006 and our plans to expand our distribution into India. Domestic Wholesale Net Sales. Domestic watch sales increased 2.8% principally due to sales volume growth in mass market, licensed and RELIC brand watches. Our mass market watch business increased by $7.5 million, or 35.9%, and is primarily attributable to our successful partnership with Wal Mart that resulted in being recognized as Wal Marts Vendor of the Year for 2006 in the jewelry, watch and accessory division. We anticipate continued growth based on the success of our offerings and the significant opportunity that exists to expand both the number of doors and the level of penetration within the mass market channel. Licensed brand watch sales increased by 24.8% principally resulting from market share gains from our BURBERRY licensed brand and sales resulting from the launch of MARC BY MARC JACOBS and ADIDAS. Net sales from our FOSSIL watch brand declined by approximately 8.1% during 2006. Excluding the effect of discontinued product sales from both 2006 and 2005, the decline was approximately 10.1%. Although the FOSSIL brand net sales declined on a comparative full year basis, the brands performance strengthened consistently on a sequential quarter basis throughout 2006 and posted a 4.5% increase during the more seasonal fourth quarter of 2006. We believe this improved performance is related to renewed innovation and design in new styles introduced to the market during the year. Consumers seem to be responding to the newness and differentiation in our watch styles and have gravitated towards our higher price point styles resulting in average unit retail price increases of approximately 10% during the year. We also believe the introduction of our FOSSIL brand catalog in late 2005 and increased circulation in 2006, combined with continued investment in our web based marketing programs were instrumental in the overall improvement of the FOSSIL watch business during 2006. 55 Net sales from other domestic products, that primarily includes our leather and sunglass businesses rose 13.7% during the year as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL womens handbags and small leather goods, RELIC belts and gift categories and RELIC sunglasses. Although we have experienced strong double digit net sales gains in our womens leather goods categories over the last two years and are operating in fewer doors given the consolidation of Federated/May, our womens leather business continues to be very healthy on a comparable door basis. Net sales from our womens handbag and small leather goods categories increased by 10.1% and 14.3%, respectively. We are continuing to drive higher average unit retails in our handbag business by introducing new fabrics and leather as well as unique treatments to our product assortment. Also fueling the increase in our FOSSIL leather goods category has been the successful introduction of our mens bag business to the line this year. Net sales from RELIC belts and gift categories increased by 38.5% primarily due to the strength of our offerings in JC Penney and Kohls. Relic eyewear net sales increased by 67.9% during the year resulting from an expansion into new doors and additional displays. The significant presence of the FOSSIL brand within the moderately priced department store channel and the RELIC brand in JC Penney and Kohls continues to position our company as a leading supplier of watches and accessories in the United States. We believe, over the long term, opportunities exist for our domestic wholesale watch and accessories businesses to continue to improve and our expectations for net sales growth in the domestic wholesale segment of our business for fiscal year 2007 is in the mid single digit range. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 27.6% during the year as a result of a 19.8% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 7.4%. Net sales from our e commerce business increased 18.7% as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL leather goods and from the launch of newly developed non FOSSIL branded websites and FOSSIL catalog. We operated 198 stores at the end of the year consisting of 120 full price stores, including 41 located outside the United States, and 78 outlet locations, including 4 stores outside the United States. This compares to 170 stores at the end of the prior year including 98 full price stores, 30 of which are located outside the United States and 72 outlet locations, including one store outside the United States. We opened 36 new stores and closed 8 stores during the year. New accessory stores opened during 2006 reflect a redesign of our historical presentation to a more contemporary vintage image that focuses on a more aspirational lifestyle customer. The results of the new stores that have opened are meeting and in some cases surpassing our original expectations. Our retail strategy is to position our FOSSIL stores as the destination within the mall for customers to shop for accessories. We are currently targeting 50 to 60 new store openings in 2007, assuming the locations and economics meet our initial criteria. Our focus will be on our full price accessory concept in the United States and Europe, and to a lesser extent the Asia Pacific region. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin decreased 110 basis points in 2006 to 50.2% compared to 51.3% in 2005. This margin decline can be attributed primarily to a sales mix shift toward lower margin product sales in our international segment and the impact of increased discontinued product sales, through both non traditional channels and our outlet stores at lower than historical gross profit margins. To a lesser extent, gross profit margin further declined as a result of an increased sales mix in our domestic segment of lower margin mass market watches and higher markdown levels, primarily in the domestic accessories business, due to the transition of May Company stores to Federated. Additionally, gross profit margins were negatively impacted as a result of certain new styles added to our global watch assortment which generated lower gross profit margins than historical averages. However, we currently have an initiative in place that we believe will result in improved gross product margins across our various product lines beginning in the second half of fiscal year 2007. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin decreases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our higher margin producing full price company owned retail stores. 56 Our consolidated gross product margin is impacted by our diversified business model that includes but is not limited to: (i) a significant number of product categories we distribute, (ii) the multiple brands we offer within many of these categories, (iii) the geographical presence of our businesses, and (iv) the different distribution channels we sell to or through. The components of this diversified business model produce varying ranges of gross profit margin. Generally, on a historical basis, our fashion branded watch, jewelry and sunglass offerings produce higher gross profit margins than our leather goods categories. In addition, in most product categories that we offer, brands with higher retail price points generally produce higher gross profit margins compared to those of lower retail priced brands. From a segment standpoint, our direct to consumer business generally produces the highest gross profit margin to the Company as a result of these sales being direct to the ultimate consumer. Gross profit margins related to sales in our international wholesale segment are historically lower than our retail segment, but historically higher than our domestic wholesale segment primarily due to the following factors; (i) overall retail prices for comparable product sold in the United States are generally higher in our international businesses as a result of less competitive fashion and designer brands being offered in these markets, (ii) the product sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our domestic wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of watches, and (iii) the watch sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our domestic wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of higher priced licensed brands. As we move forward into 2007, we believe we have an opportunity to improve gross margins because we expect net sales growth to be more pronounced in our international wholesale and direct to consumer segments than our domestic wholesale segment. We also believe that our efforts to reduce our global inventory levels during 2006, which included significant levels of discontinued product sales at or slightly above cost, will allow us to improve our consolidated gross profit margin in 2007 as we expect reduced levels of discontinued product sales in 2007 in comparison to 2006. Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $59 million during 2006 and, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 40.0% of net sales compared to 40.9% for the prior year. 2006 operating expenses increased approximately $3.4 million as a result of businesses acquired in 2006 and approximately $2.9 million due to foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the operating expenses of acquired businesses and the impact of foreign currencies, operating expense increases during 2006 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, rent and depreciation and amortization expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional headcount to support new initiatives, including the ADIDAS watch and new DIESEL and MICHELE jewelry businesses launched in 2006, non cash compensation expense due to the implementation of FAS 123R and increased payroll expense in connection with our retail store growth. Payroll expense increases also included an approximate $3.5 million associated with the additional week in the first quarter. Rent expense increased 21.0% primarily due to the expansion of our retail stores. Depreciation and amortization expense increases are primarily related to leasehold improvements and in store fixturing associated with new retail store openings during 2005 and 2006, additional hardware and software additions and depreciation related to the SAP implementation in France finalized in May 2005. Our management anticipates 2007 operating expenses (excluding expenses recorded in connection with the Special Committees review of our equity granting practices), as a percentage of net sales, to decrease slightly in comparison to 2006 levels, assuming foreign currency rates remain near their existing levels relative to the U.S. dollar. We expect this decrease to be more pronounced in the second half of the year, primarily due to the seasonality of our net sales. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. 57 Amounts in millions 2006 2005 Operating % of Net Operating % of Net Fiscal Year Expense Sales Expense Sales Europe wholesale 141.8 37 % 116.5 37 % Other international wholesale 52.8 31 % 43.3 30 % Domestic wholesale (1) 196.9 44 % 188.4 46 % Direct to consumer 94.1 43 % 78.0 45 % Total 485.6 40 % 426.2 41 % (1) Certain corporate costs not allocated to individual operating segments for management reporting purposes and intercompany eliminations for specific income statement items are reflected in the domestic wholesale segment. Operating Income. The decline in our gross profit margin was partially offset by the leverage in our operating expenses resulting in our operating profit margin decreasing to 10.2% in 2006 compared to 10.4% in the prior year. Excluding expenses recorded in connection with the Special Committees review of our equity granting practices and additional cost related to the restatement of our historical financial statements, management believes operating margin for 2007 could increase by 100 to 200 basis points compared to 2006 based upon the estimated improved gross profit margin and leveraging of operating expenses. However, as we continue to grow in the watch, jewelry and retail store segments, we believe we may continue to experience a greater percentage of our operating income in the back half of the year. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased by approximately $3.2 million to $3.6 million compared to $321,000 in 2005. This increase is related to the impact of higher outstanding borrowings under our revolving lines of credit that were principally used to fund approximately $85 million of common stock repurchases occurring during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and capital expenditures of $50.8 million during 2006. Other Expense (Income) Net. Other expense (income) net primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries and equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During 2006, other expense (income) net decreased favorably by approximately $4.7 million principally due to $2 million of currency gains recorded in 2006 compared to $3.8 million of currency losses in 2005. This favorable increase was partially offset by a $1.2 million reduction in equity in the earnings of our joint venture in Spain. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate increased to 34.7% during 2006 compared to 26.5% in the prior year. The lower effective tax rate in 2005 was the result of our ability, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, to reduce previously recorded deferred tax liabilities by repatriating foreign earnings at an effective tax rate substantially below the statutory rate at which these deferred tax liabilities were established. The Company expects its effective tax rate to be in a range of 37% to 39% in 2007. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: 58 Analysis of Percentage Change in Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale (1 )% 1 % 4 % 4 % Other international wholesale 1 4 7 12 Domestic wholesale 2 6 8 Direct to consumer 20 20 Total % 2 % 7 % 9 % European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. European wholesale sales growth was driven by sales volume increases in FOSSIL jewelry and licensed watches. These increases were partially offset by sales volume declines in FOSSIL watches. The sales volume growth in FOSSIL jewelry was mainly attributable to further penetration of the line in Germany as well as recent expansion into new European markets, primarily Italy and the United Kingdom. Net sales increases in licensed watches were primarily related to further penetration within existing markets as these brands continue to gain recognition. FOSSIL watch sales decreases were primarily the result of declines in the sales of core styles and weak consumer response to new styles launched during 2005 and our belief that the watch category in general experienced declines during 2005. Other International Wholesale Nets Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. Growth from other international wholesale sales was led by sales volume increases in our licensed watch businesses primarily resulting from expansion of these brands into additional retail locations. Fiscal 2005 net sales growth in our other international segment was negatively impacted by an approximate $4.7 million prior year special market sale that occurred in 2004. Domestic Wholesale Net Sales. Excluding the impact on sales growth attributable to acquisitions, domestic watch sales decreased 1.4% principally as a result of a 12.4% decline in FOSSIL watch sales and a 17.8% decline in RELIC watch sales. These decreases were partially offset by growth in our mass market business that launched in mid 2004. We believe that the decrease in sales of FOSSIL and RELIC watches was primarily due to a cyclical shift in consumer discretionary spending patterns away from the watch category during 2005. During 2005, domestic sales of our accessory and sunglass businesses rose 18.5% resulting from sales volume growth in FOSSIL womens and mens leather products as well as RELIC sunglasses. The womens handbag category was one of the benefactors of the shift in consumer discretionary spending in 2005 allowing us to not only experience increased sales in existing locations but also expand our presence in many other accessory product lines within the same customer base. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 19.1% during the year as a result of a 20.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 1.1%. Net sales from our e commerce business increased 16.7% as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL NCAA watches, MICHELE watches and FOSSIL leather products. In comparison to the prior year, 2005 comparable store sales increases were negatively impacted by declines in our FOSSIL watch business, which has historically accounted for approximately 60% to 65% of our overall retail store sales. Retail store sales were positively impacted by significant increases in sales from accessory products. We operated 170 stores at the end of the year, consisting of 72 outlet, including one located oustide the United States, and 98 full price stores, consisting of 30 full price stores located outside the United States. This compares to 136 stores at the end of the prior year consisting of 60 outlet and 76 full price stores, including 23 stores located outside the United States. We opened 37 new stores and closed 3 stores during the year. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin decreased 120 basis points in 2005 to 51.3% compared to 52.5% in 2004. This margin decline can be attributed primarily to a sales mix shift between the different segments of our business. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, 2005 net sales from our international and domestic wholesale watch segment declined by 300 basis points in comparison to 2004, while our domestic accessory segment experienced a sales mix increase of 170 basis points. Historically, gross profit margins generated from our international segment and domestic watch segment are generally higher than those experienced in our domestic accessories segment. In addition, we experienced higher freight cost as a percentage of net sales primarily due to fuel surcharges that were incurred during the second half of the year. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin decreases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our higher margin producing direct to consumer segment. 59 Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $54.7 million during 2005 and, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 40.9% of net sales compared to 38.8% for the prior year. Included in 2005 operating expenses is approximately $6.0 million related to operating expenses of businesses acquired in 2005. Excluding the operating expenses of acquired businesses, operating expense increases during 2005 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, advertising expense and depreciation and amortization expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional headcount to support new initiatives, including the MARC JACOBS watch launch in 2005 and the ADIDAS watch and new DIESEL and MICHELE jewelry businesses launched in 2006. Additional payroll cost increases were associated with the expansion of our European shared services center to support our SAP software solution roll outs and increased headcount in our European headquarters office in Basel, Switzerland. Advertising expense increased to $82.4 million. As a percentage of net sales, advertising expense remained constant with 2004 at 7.7%. Depreciation and amortization expense increases were primarily related to leasehold improvements and in store fixturing associated with new company owned retail store openings during 2004 and 2005, additional hardware and software additions and depreciation related to the SAP implementations in Germany and France finalized in August 2004 and May 2005, respectively. Operating Income. Gross profit margin reductions and increased operating expenses as a percentage of net sales resulted in our operating profit margin decreasing to 10.4% in 2005 compared to 13.7% in the prior year. Other Expense (Income) Net. During 2005, other expense (income) net decreased unfavorably by approximately $11 million as a result of $3.8 million of currency losses incurred in 2005 compared to $6.9 million of currency gains experienced in 2004. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate decreased to 26.5% during 2005 compared to 34.3% in the prior year. During 2005, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, we were able to repatriate $165 million of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested and as a result received an 85% dividends received deduction for these eligible dividends. Since we had previously provided for income taxes to be paid on these foreign earnings at the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, less appropriate foreign tax credits, we released approximately $18 million of our previously recorded deferred tax liabilities. This reduction, offset by the actual taxes paid on these dividends, contributed earnings of approximately $0.17 per diluted share during 2005 that will not reoccur in 2006. The repatriated funds will be used to invest in qualified expenditures in the United States in accordance with our approved Domestic Reinvestment Plan. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. We believe that, to the extent inflation affects our costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our general business operations have not required substantial cash needs during the first several months of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame. Our cash holdings and securities available for sale as of the end of fiscal year 2006 increased to $140 million in comparison to $65 million at the end of the prior year. Of the $140 million of cash, cash equivalents and securities available for sale at fiscal year end 2006, $88.2 million is held in banks outside the United States. The increase in cash holdings and securities available for sale is primarily the result of $148 million of net cash generated from operating activities less $61 million of cash used in investing activities and $20 million of cash used in financing activities. Cash flows generated from operating activities were primarily related to net income of $78 million, non cash items of approximately $26 million, $24 million of cash from increased accrued expenses and $18 million of cash from decreased inventory balances partially offset by $19 million of increases in accounts receivable balances. Cash flows used in investing activities were primarily related to fixed asset additions of $51 million. Cash used in financing activities were primarily related to $26 million in repurchases of common stock and $3 million in distribution of minority interest earnings. These items were partially offset by approximately $5 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $2 million of debt borrowings. 60 Aided by strong fourth quarter retail and web based sales, accounts receivable at the end of 2006 increased by only 10.0%, well below our net sales growth rate of 20.5% for the fourth quarter, to $155 million compared to $141 million at the end of 2005. As a result, average days sales outstanding decreased to 45 days from 51 days in the prior year. Fiscal 2006 ending inventory of $228 million represents a 5% decrease compared to $241 million in the prior year and the composition of the inventory is more current. The decrease in inventories is mainly attributable to the implementation of two key initiatives. First, we implemented strategies to adjust inventory purchases to match trailing trend results rather than purchasing inventory based on estimated but perhaps optimistic growth expectations. Secondly, we took advantage of opportunities for the reduction in our excess inventory by selling increased amounts of discountinued product through alternative channels as well as our own outlet stores. At the end of 2006, we had working capital of $358 million compared to working capital of $327 million at the end of the prior year. We had approximately $11 million of outstanding borrowings at the end of 2006 related to short term borrowings in the UK and Japan. In the first quarter of 2006, our UK subsidiary entered into a revolving credit facility with its primary bank allowing borrowings of up to 4 million GBP. Outstanding borrowings under the UK based facility were $7.7 million USD at the end of 2006 and bear interest at the aggregate of the margin, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and Mandatory Lending Agreement (MLA), costs, (6.17% on a combined basis at year end), due May 2007. These borrowings were used to acquire a new facility for our U.K. based operations. The remaining $3.4 million in borrowings are under a short term facility in Japan bearing interest at the Euroyen rate (approximately 1.38% at year end), due in June 2007. This facility is primarily utilized for working capital needs associated with our Japanese subsidiary. At the end of 2006 we had no outstanding borrowings under our $100 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility which bears interest at our option of (i) the LIBOR base rate (5.32% at year end) plus 50 basis points, or (ii) the lesser of (a) the higher of Wells Fargos prime rate (8.25% at year end) less 1.0%, or 3.0%, or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law. We have typically renewed this short term credit facility in September each year. During 2007, we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $40 to $50 million to principally cover information technology additions, acquisition of facilities associated with our European headquarters in Basel, Switzerland, new company owned retail store openings and other general maintenance requirements. We believe that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our capital needs during 2007. We also have access to amounts available under our credit facilities should additional funds be required. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table presents, as of January 6, 2007, a summary of our significant cash contractual obligations by payment date. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 8 and Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Total l Year Years Years 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Short term debt (1) $ 11,089 $ 11,089 $ $ $ Minimum royalty payments (2) 115,763 40,535 55,239 14,963 5,026 Future minimum rental payments 160,744 32,115 50,556 33,978 44,095 Purchase obligations (3) 51,828 51,828 0 0 0 Total contractual cash obligations $ 339,424 $ 135,567 $ 105,795 $ 48,941 $ 49,121 (1) Consists of short term credit borrowings in the United Kingdom and Japan and excludes contractual interest. (2) Consists of primarily exclusive licenses to manufacture watches under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. (3) Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. 61 Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Certain line items presented in the tables below, when aggregated, may not agree to the corresponding line items on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 due to rounding. Fiscal Year 2006 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 264,225 $ 259,238 $ 299,697 $ 390,805 Gross profit 133,014 127,034 148,106 200,765 Operating expenses 116,022 110,838 115,153 143,581 Operating income 16,992 16,196 32,953 57,184 Income before income taxes 15,492 15,610 31,941 55,752 Provision for income taxes 5,776 4,372 10,400 20,665 Net income 9,716 11,238 21,541 35,087 Earnings per share: Basic 0.14 0.17 0.32 0.52 Diluted 0.14 0.16 0.31 0.51 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 50.3 % 49.0 % 49.4 % 51.4 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 43.9 % 42.8 % 38.4 % 36.7 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 6.4 % 6.2 % 11.0 % 14.6 % Fiscal Year 2005 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA As Restated (1) Net sales $ 232,510 $ 226,235 $ 260,171 $ 324,203 Gross profit 121,162 117,252 136,210 160,514 Operating expenses 96,647 100,959 99,488 129,058 Operating income 24,515 16,293 36,722 31,456 Income before income taxes 21,912 13,881 34,385 32,770 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1,982 ) 4,228 12,691 12,341 Net income 23,894 9,653 21,694 20,429 Earnings per share: Basic 0.34 0.14 0.31 0.29 Diluted 0.32 0.13 0.30 0.29 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 52.1 % 51.8 % 52.4 % 49.5 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 41.6 % 44.6 % 38.2 % 39.8 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 10.5 % 7.2 % 14.1 % 9.7 % (1) See Note 2 in the "Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements" in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10 K. The following table gives effect to adjustments related to stock based compensation expense and the correction of other prior period errors: Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2005 As Reported Adjustments As Restated Net sales $ 324,203 $ $ 324,203 Gross profit 160,514 160,514 Operating expenses 127,129 1,929 129,058 Operating income 33,385 (1,929 ) 31,456 Income before income taxes 34,699 (1,929 ) 32,770 Provision for income taxes 12,534 (193 ) 12,341 Net income 22,165 (1,736 ) 20,429 Earnings per share: Basic 0.32 (0.03 ) 0.29 Diluted 0.31 (0.02 ) 0.29 Gross profits as a percentage of sales 49.5 % 49.5 % Operating expenses as a percentage of sales 39.2 % 39.8 % Operating income as a percentage of sales 10.3 % 9.7 % While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the back to school and Christmas season, generated approximately 73% of our annual operating income for 2006. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter of the following year as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. We currently believe that our inventory levels at our major customers at the end of 2006 were near their targeted inventory levels. As we continue to grow in the watch, jewelry and direct to consumer segments, we believe we will continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a percent of sales, we believe operating expenses will be more significant in the first half of the year when due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores, personnel and infrastructure costs incurred in the back half of the prior year carry into the following year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us. 62 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro, British Pound and, to a lesser extent, the Swiss Franc, as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of practices to manage this market risk, including our operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of foreign currency forward contracts. The use of these instruments allows management to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in 2006 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At year end we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 43.1 million Euro for approximately $56.2 million, expiring through December 2007 and approximately 3.6 million British Pounds for $7 million, expiring through June 2007. If we were to settle our Euro and British Pound based contracts at fiscal year end 2006, the net result would be a net loss of approximately $338,000, net of taxes. Exclusive of these outstanding foreign exchange contracts or other operating or financing activities that may be employed by us, a measurement of the unfavorable impact of a 10 percent change in the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc as compared to the U.S. dollar would have on our operating profits and stockholders equity is presented in the following paragraph. At fiscal year end 2006, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc involving balance sheet transactional exposures would have reduced net pre tax income by $6.6 million. The translation of the balance sheets of our European, United Kingdom and Switzerland based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2006, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $15.8 million. In the view of management, the risks associated with exchange rate changes in other currencies we have exposure to are not material and these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operation or cash flows. 
 
