Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The words may, believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates and similar expressions identify forward looking statements. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including those discussed below. Accordingly, readers of this Annual Report on Form 10 K should consider these facts in evaluating the information and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences in a timely manner while preserving the authenticity and quality of our brands. Although we attempt to stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and fashion trends affecting accessories and apparel, any failure by us to identify and respond to such trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our existing brand names and product lines, which in turn could adversely affect sales of our products. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products. Our success also depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products, or if our competitors introduce superior products, customers may purchase increasing amounts of products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings and new products introduced by us may not achieve consumer acceptance comparable to that of our existing product lines. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products, or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory 21 or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brands. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our sales and market share. The effects of economic cycles, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war and military action both in the United States and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to procure our products from manufacturers for sale to our customers. Any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on consumer purchases of our products. Seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal cycles, the timing of new product introductions, the timing of orders by our customers and the mix of product sales demand. Our business is seasonal by nature. A significant portion of our net sales and operating income are generated during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, which includes the Christmas season. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the fourth quarter depends upon the anticipated level of retail sales during the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In addition, the amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter depends in part upon the actual level of retail sales during the Christmas season. The seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income during the first and fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write downs or the sale of excess inventory at prices below our standard levels. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. The loss of any of our license agreements, pursuant to which a number of our products are produced, may result in the loss of significant revenues and may adversely affect our business. A portion of our growth in sales and net income is, and is expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of products produced under license agreements with third parties. Under these license agreements, we generally have the right to produce, market and distribute certain products utilizing the brand names of other companies. We sell products under certain licensed brands, including, but not limited to, ADIDAS, EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DIESEL, DKNY, MARC BY MARC JACOBS and MICHAEL Michael Kors. Sales of our licensed products amounted to 34.4% of our sales for fiscal year 2007, with certain individual licensed brands accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. Our material license agreements have various expiration dates 22 between 2008 and 2013. In addition, certain license agreements may require us to make minimum royalty payments, subject us to restrictive covenants or require us to comply with certain other obligations and may be terminated by the licensor if these or other conditions are not met or upon certain events. We may not be able to continue to meet our obligations or fulfill the conditions under these agreements in the future. In addition, we may be unable to renew our existing license agreements beyond the current term or obtain new license agreements to replace any lost license agreements on similar economic terms or at all. The failure by us to maintain or renew one or more of our existing material license agreements could result in a significant decrease in our sales and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Our license agreements may require minimum royalty commitments regardless of the level of product sales under these agreements. With respect to our license agreements, we have in the past experienced, and could again in the future experience, instances where minimum royalty commitments under these agreements exceeded royalties payable based upon our sales of such licensed products. We incurred royalty expense of approximately $60.7 million, $44.1 million and $34.6 million in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We also have agreements in effect at the end of fiscal year 2007 which expire on various dates from December 2008 through December 2013 that require us to pay royalties ranging from 3% to 20% of defined net sales. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or ability to meet our customers demands. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs and weather conditions. In the future we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to our customers. We rely on third party manufacturers and problems with, or loss of, our suppliers or raw materials could harm our business and results of operations. All of our apparel, sunglass and leather goods and certain of our watch and jewelry products are produced by independent manufacturers. We do not have long term contracts with these manufacturers. In addition, we face the risk that these third party manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis, or at all. As a result, we cannot be certain that these manufacturers will continue to manufacture products for us or that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages for certain products and harm our business. Access to suppliers that are not Fossil subsidiaries is not guaranteed because we do not maintain long term contracts but instead rely on long standing business relationships, which may not continue in the future. The majority of our watch products are currently assembled to our specifications by our majority owned entities in Asia and Switzerland with the remainder assembled by unrelated entities. Certain of our other products are currently manufactured to our specifications by independent manufacturers in international locations, including China, Hong Kong, Italy, Korea, Mexico and Taiwan. We have no long term contracts with these independent manufacturing sources and compete with other companies for production facilities. All transactions between us and our independent manufacturing sources are conducted on the basis of purchase orders. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain close relationships with our current suppliers and to develop long term relationships with other suppliers that satisfy our requirements for price, quality and production flexibility. 23 If an independent manufacturer or license partner of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. We have no control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers, or by one of our license partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturers or license partners labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or other countries in which the violation or divergence occurred, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers or licensors be found in violation of state or international labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. We extend unsecured credit to our customers and are therefore vulnerable to any financial difficulties they may face. We sell our merchandise primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide. We extend credit based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Should any of our larger customers experience financial difficulties, we could curtail business with such customers or assume more credit risk relating to such customers receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable relating to such customers could have a material adverse effect on the amount of sales revenue that we receive and our results of operations. We do not maintain long term contracts with our customers and are unable to control their purchasing decisions. We do not maintain long term purchasing contracts with our customers and therefore have no contractual leverage over their purchasing decisions. A decision by a major department store or other significant customer to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating strategy. Our ability to continue our sales growth is dependent upon the implementation of our growth strategy, which we may not be able to achieve. During recent years, we have experienced substantial growth in sales. Our ability to continue this growth is dependent on the successful implementation of our business strategy. This includes diversification of our product offerings, expansion of our company owned accessory locations and certain strategic acquisitions. If we are not successful in the expansion of our product offerings or our new products are not profitable or do not generate sales comparable to those of our existing businesses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Another element of our business strategy is to place increased emphasis on growth in selected international markets. If our brand names and products do not achieve a high degree of consumer acceptance in these markets, our sales could be adversely affected. We also operate FOSSIL brand stores and other non FOSSIL branded stores and have historically expanded our company owned accessory and outlet locations to further strengthen our brand image. As of January 5, 2008, we operated 244 stores worldwide. The costs associated with leasehold improvements to current stores and the costs associated with opening new stores could materially increase our costs of operation. Our plan to significantly increase our store base may not be successful, and implementation of this plan may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. Each year, we have historically expanded our store base. During fiscal 2008, we intend to further expand our store base by between 80 and 85 stores. Thereafter, in the near term, we plan to continue to significantly expand our store base annually. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to open new stores and renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our ability to open new stores on schedule or at all, to renew existing store leases on favorable terms or to operate them on a profitable basis will depend on various factors, including our ability to: 24 identify suitable markets for new stores and available store locations; negotiate acceptable lease terms for new locations or renewal terms for existing locations; manage and expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth; hire and train qualified sales associates; develop new merchandise and manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; and avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build out of new stores. Our plans to expand our store base may not be successful and the implementation of these plans may not result in an increase in our sales even though they increase our costs. Additionally, implementing our plans to expand our store base will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. The increased demands of operating additional stores could cause us to operate less effectively, which could cause the performance of our existing stores and our wholesale operations to suffer materially. Any of these outcomes of our attempted expansion of our store base could have a material adverse effect on the amount of sales revenue that we receive and our results of operations. Our direct to consumer business segment operates in the highly competitive specialty retail, e commerce and catalog industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors are substantially greater than ours, which may allow them to compete more effectively. We face intense competition in the specialty retail, e commerce and catalog industry. We compete primarily with specialty retailers, high end department stores, catalog retailers and internet businesses that engage in the retail sale of watches, accessories and apparel. We believe that the principal basis upon which we compete is the quality and design of merchandise and the quality of customer service. We also believe that price is an important factor in our customers decision making process. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and generate greater national brand recognition than we can. This intense competition and greater size and resources of some of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on the amount of sales revenue that we receive and our results of operations. We could be negatively impacted if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. As part of our growth strategy, we have made certain acquisitions, domestically and internationally, including acquisitions of FOSSIL stores previously operated under license agreements, acquisitions of certain watch brands, and acquisitions of independent distributors of our products. The integration of these and future acquisitions may not be successful or generate sales increases. When we have acquired businesses, we have acquired businesses that we believe could enhance our business opportunities and our growth prospects. All acquisitions involve risks that could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. These risks include: distraction of management from our business operations; loss of key personnel and other employees; costs, delays, and inefficiencies associated with integrating acquired operations and personnel; the impairment of acquired assets and goodwill; and acquiring the contingent and other liabilities of the businesses we acquire. 25 In addition, acquired businesses may not provide us with increased business opportunities, or result in the growth that we anticipate. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations is a complex, time consuming, and expensive process. Combining acquired operations with us may result in lower overall operating margins, greater stock price volatility and quarterly earnings fluctuations. Cultural incompatibilities, career uncertainties and other factors associated with such acquisitions may also result in the loss of employees. Failure to acquire and successfully integrate complementary practices, or failure to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our competitors are established companies that may have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including design and distribution. There is intense competition in each of the businesses in which we compete. In all of our businesses, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors who may have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than us. Our competitors include distributors that import watches, accessories and apparel from abroad, United States companies that have established foreign manufacturing relationships and companies that produce accessories and apparel domestically. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely affected by our competitors and their competitive pressures in the watch, fashion accessory and apparel industries. We have key facilities in the United States and overseas, the loss or regulation of any of which could harm our business. Our administrative and distribution operations in the United States are conducted primarily from four separate facilities located in the Dallas, Texas area. Our operations internationally are conducted from various administrative, distribution and assembly facilities outside of the United States, particularly in China, Germany, Hong Kong and Switzerland. The complete or temporary loss of use of all or part of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our warehouse and distribution facilities in Dallas and Richardson, Texas are operated in a special purpose sub zone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board. Although the sub zone allows us certain tax advantages, the sub zone is highly regulated by the U.S. Customs Service. This level of regulation may cause disruptions or delays in the distribution of our products out of these facilities. Under some circumstances, the U.S. Customs Service has the right to shut down the entire sub zone and, therefore, our entire warehouse and distribution facilities. During the time that the sub zone is shut down, we may be unable to adequately meet the supply requests of our customers and our company owned retail stores, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, relationships with our customers, and results of operations, especially if the shut down were to occur during our third or fourth quarter. Our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system could disrupt our computer system and divert management time. In 2003, we began implementing an enterprise resource planning system from SAP AG, a German software company. We implemented the new enterprise resource planning system in our U.S., Germany and France locations in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Over the next few years, we intend to replace our existing enterprise resource planning systems and other principal financial systems in certain other subsidiaries located in Europe with software systems provided by SAP AG. We have implemented Navision as our standard system throughout most of our Far East distribution subsidiary operations. During 2007, we implemented this system in our principal Hong Kong office and China assembly facilities. Our current expansion plans may place significant strain on our management, working capital, financial and management control systems and staff. The failure to maintain or upgrade 26 financial and management control systems, to recruit additional staff or to respond effectively to difficulties encountered during expansion could have a material adverse effect on our ability to respond to trends in our target markets, market our products and meet our customers requirements. The sustained disruption or failure of our systems due to force majeure or as part of an upgrade, conversion or other systems maintenance could result in the same adverse effects. Changes in the mix of product sales demand could negatively impact our gross profit margins. Our gross profit margins are impacted by our sales mix. Sales from our direct to consumer segment and international and licensed watch businesses generally provide gross margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margin, while accessory products generally provide gross profit margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margin. If future sales from our direct to consumer segment and international and licensed watch businesses do not increase at a faster rate than our United States accessory business, our gross profit margins may grow at a slower pace, cease to grow, or decrease relative to our historical consolidated gross profit margin. We have also recently begun distributing private label product to the mass market channel at gross profit margins significantly lower than our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Future growth in this channel at rates in excess of our consolidated net revenue growth rate could negatively impact our consolidated gross profit margins. Our industry is subject to pricing pressures that may adversely impact our financial performance. We assemble or source many of our products offshore because such products generally cost less to make, primarily because labor costs are lower. Many of our competitors also source their product requirements offshore to achieve lower costs, possibly in locations with lower costs than our offshore operations, and those competitors may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry wide pricing pressures. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our production costs or our production costs increase and we cannot increase our prices. Our failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property may harm our business. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We are devoted to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in those countries where we believe it is important to our ability to sell our products. However, we cannot be certain that the actions we have taken will result in enforceable rights, will be adequate to protect our products in every country where we may want to sell our products, will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to prevent sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights of others. The failure to obtain trademark, patent or other intellectual property rights could materially harm our business. Additionally, we rely on the patent, trademark and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. Even if we are successful in obtaining appropriate trademark, patent and other intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Because we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in Hong Kong and China, we are significantly dependent on foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. Further, if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome, costly and we may not prevail. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found 27 liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. An increase in product returns could negatively impact our operating results. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs and affect how our stock trades. This could in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. Factors Relating to Our International Operations Factors affecting international commerce and our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from outside of the United States, and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations could account for an increasingly larger portion of our net sales. Our international operations are directly related to, and dependent on, the volume of international trade and foreign market conditions. International commerce and our international operations are subject to many risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below, including: 28 recessions in foreign economies; the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions; limitations on repatriation of earnings; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries; longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing foreign operations; social, political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; our ability to finance foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; and U.S. government licensing requirements for exports. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected regions and decrease the profitability of our international operations, which may seriously harm our financial condition. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in certain international markets. We sell our products in certain international markets mainly through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in, and a resulting loss of, sales and profits. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source a significant amount of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products purchased by our subsidiaries may be affected by changes in the value of the currencies, including the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, Danish Krone, Euro, Hong Kong dollar, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Korean Won, Malaysian Ringgit, Mexican Peso, Norwegian Kroner, Singapore Dollar, Swedish Krona, Swiss Franc and Taiwanese Dollar. Due to our dependence on manufacturing operations in China, changes in the value of the Chinese Yuan may have a material impact on our supply channels and manufacturing costs, including component and assembly costs. Changes in the currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Although we utilize forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risks (mostly relating to the Euro and the British Pound), if we are unsuccessful in mitigating these risks, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations. Because we are dependent on foreign manufacturing we are vulnerable to changes in economic and social conditions in Asia and disruptions in international travel and shipping. Because a substantial portion of our watches and certain of our handbags, sunglasses and other products are assembled or manufactured in Hong Kong and China, our success will depend to a significant extent upon future economic and social conditions existing in Hong Kong and China. If the factories in Hong Kong and China were disrupted for any reason, we would need to arrange for the manufacture and shipment of products by alternative sources. Because the establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery, we are unable to predict whether such relationships would be on terms that we regard as satisfactory. Any significant disruption in our relationships with our manufacturing sources located in Hong Kong and 29 China would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. Restrictions on travel to and from these and other regions, similar to those imposed during the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome in 2003, commonly known as SARS, and any delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products on account of SARS or other syndromes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer deadlines and timely distribute our products in order to match consumer tastes. Risks associated with foreign government regulations and U.S. trade policy may affect our foreign operations and sourcing. Our businesses are subject to risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulation in the countries in which our manufacturing sources are located, primarily Hong Kong and China. While we have not experienced any material issues with foreign governmental regulations that would impact our arrangements with our foreign manufacturing sources, we believe that this issue is of particular concern with regard to China due to the less mature nature of the Chinese market economy and the historical involvement of the Chinese government in industry. If regulation were to render the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impracticable, or if our current foreign manufacturing sources were for any other reason to cease doing business with us, such a development could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and on our supply, manufacturing and distribution channels. Our business is also subject to the risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other charges or restrictions on imports, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. and foreign customs quotas, duties (including antidumping or countervailing duties), tariffs, taxes or other charges or restrictions, requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future or adversely modified, or what effect such actions would have on our costs of operations. For example, our products imported to the United States are subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of our business we may from time to time be subject to claims by the U.S. Customs Service for duties and other charges. Factors that may influence the modification or imposition of these restrictions include the determination by the U.S. Trade Representative that a country has denied adequate intellectual property rights or fair and equitable market access to U.S. firms that rely on intellectual property, trade disputes between the United States and a country that leads to withdrawal of most favored nation status for that country and economic and political changes within a country that are viewed unfavorably by the U.S. government. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to: quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the countries where our apparel producing facilities are located and foreign countries; and customs duties imposed by the governments where our apparel producing facilities are located on imported products, including raw materials. Our apparel business is also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization, referred to as the WTO. Generally, such trade agreements benefit our apparel business by reducing or eliminating the duties and or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country. However, trade agreements can also impose requirements that negatively impact our apparel business, such as limiting the countries from which we can purchase raw materials and setting quotas on products that may be imported into the United States from a particular country. In addition, the WTO may commence a new round of trade negotiations that liberalize textile trade. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 30 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Many factors may cause our net revenues, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate and possibly decline which may result in declines in our stock price. Our net sales, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors may include, but may not be limited to, the following: fluctuations in market demand for our products; increased competition and pricing pressures; our ability to anticipate changing customer demands and preferences; our failure to efficiently manage our inventory levels; our inability to manage and maintain our debt obligations; seasonality in our business; changes in our, and our competitors, business strategy or pricing; the successful expansion of our owned retail stores; the timing of certain general and administrative expenses; completing acquisitions and the costs of integrating acquired operations; international currency fluctuations, operating challenges and trade regulations; acts of terrorism or acts of war; and government regulation. One or more of the foregoing factors, as well as any other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, may cause our operating expenses to be unexpectedly high or result in a decrease in our revenue during any given period. If these or any other variables or unknowns were to cause a shortfall in revenues or earnings, an increase in our operating costs or otherwise cause a failure to meet public market expectations, our stock price may decline and our business could be adversely affected. Two principal stockholders own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis, our CEO, and Mr. Tom Kartsotis, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, each own a substantial amount of our common stock. As a result, they are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of elections of our directors, the adoption, amendment or repeal of our bylaws and any other actions requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders, and to otherwise influence our affairs. Our organizational documents contain anti takeover provisions that could discourage a proposal for a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a proposal for a takeover. These include a provision in our certificate of incorporation authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year, provisions in our bylaws establishing advance notice procedures with respect to certain stockholder proposals, and provisions requiring that action taken to remove a director without cause be approved either by an 80% vote of the Board of Directors or an 80% vote of the stockholders. Our bylaws may be amended by a vote of 80% of the Board 31 of Directors, subject to repeal by a vote of 80% of the stockholders. In addition, Delaware law limits the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in certain business combinations with interested stockholders. Finally, Messrs. Kartsotis have the ability, by virtue of their stock ownership, to significantly influence a vote regarding a change in control. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis each own a substantial amount of our common stock. The shares beneficially owned by Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis may be sold in the open market in the future, subject to any volume restrictions and other limitations under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 144 thereunder. We may also decide to file a registration statement enabling Messrs. Kartsotis to sell additional shares. Any sales by Messrs. Kartsotis of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of their shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales could occur. These sales or the possibility that they may occur also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds in any equity offering in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Company Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2007, we owned or leased the following material facilities in connection with our United States and international operations: Location Use Square Footage Owned / Leased Dallas, Texas Office, warehouse and distribution 517,500 Owned Eggsttt, Germany Office, warehouse and distribution 230,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Corporate headquarters 190,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Warehouse and distribution 138,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Office 131,541 Owned Basel, Switzerland European headquarters 36,113 Owned Milton Keynes, United Kingdom Office, warehouse and distribution 20,155 Owned/Leased China Manufacturing 110,231 Lease expiring in 2008 Hong Kong Office, warehouse and distribution 52,953 Lease expiring in 2010 New York, New York General office and showroom 26,552 Lease expiring in 2016 We also lease certain other manufacturing and or office, warehouse and or distribution facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Los Angeles, California; Miami, Florida; Biel, Switzerland; Sweden; Taiwan; Hong Kong; Malaysia; Mexico; Singapore; New Zealand; the United Kingdom; Australia; Japan; Canada; Netherlands; China; Korea; India; Italy and France. U.S. based Apparel Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2007, we had entered into 33 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of our apparel line and certain of our accessory products. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2018. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. 32 U.S. based Accessory Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2007, we had entered into 67 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of our full assortment of accessory products and our Modern Watch Co. stores, which include leases for 4 new stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2008. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2008 to 2019. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. U.S. based Outlet Store Facilities. We lease retail space at selected outlet centers throughout the United States for the sale of our products. As of the end of fiscal year 2007, we had entered into 76 such leases, which include leases for 2 new stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2008. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2008 to 2018, and provide for minimum annual rentals and for the payment of additional rent based on a percentage of sales above specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs at each outlet center, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. International Store Facilities. At the end of fiscal year 2007, we had entered into 85 lease agreements for retail stores located outside the U.S., including leases for 10 stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2008. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2008 to 2022. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. We believe that our existing facilities are well maintained and in good operating condition. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Three shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, naming us as a nominal defendant and naming all of our then current directors and certain of our current and former officers and directors as defendants. The first suit, captioned City of Pontiac Policemans and Firemans Retirement System, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Tom Kartsotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Michael L. Kovar, Michael W. Barnes, Mark D. Quick, Randy S. Kercho, Jal S. Shroff, Randy S. Hyne, Thomas R. Tunnel, Richard H. Gundy, Kenneth W. Anderson, Andrea Camerana, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, Donald J. Stone and Cadence Wang (Cause No. 3 06CV1672 P), was filed on September 13, 2006. The second suit, captioned Robert B. Minich, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Tom Karstotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Michael L. Kovar, Michael W. Barnes, Mark D. Quick, Randy S. Kercho, Jal S. Shroff, Randy S. Hyne, Thomas R. Tunnel, Richard H. Gundy, Kenneth W. Anderson, Andrea Camerana, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, Donald J. Stone and Cadence Wang (Cause No. 3 06CV1977 M), was filed on October 26, 2006. The third suit, captioned Robert Neel, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Michael W. Barnes, Richard H. Gundy, Randy S. Kercho, Mark D. Quick, Tom Kartsotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Jal S. Shroff, T. R. Tunnell, Michael L. Kovar, Donald J. Stone, Kenneth W. Anderson, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, and Fossil, Inc. (Cause No. 3 06CV2264 G), was filed on December 8, 2006. The complaints allege purported violations of federal securities laws and state law claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, constructive fraud, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and gross mismanagement in connection with certain stock option grants made by us. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to these claims, and we intend to assert a vigorous defense to the litigation. The ultimate liability with respect to these claims cannot be determined at this time; however, we do not expect these matters to have a material impact on our financial position, operations or liquidity. There are no other legal proceedings to which we are a party or to which our properties are subject, other than routine litigation incident to our business, which is not material to our consolidated financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders The Company held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders on November 14, 2007 to (i) elect one Class I Director to its board of directors for a term of one year or until his respective successor is elected and qualified, (ii) elect four Class III Directors to its board 33 of directors for a term of three years or until their respective successors are elected and qualified and (iii) ratify the appointment of Deloitte and Touche LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for 2007. The table below shows the results of the stockholders voting: Votes in Favor Votes Withheld/ Against Abstain Broker Non Votes Election of Class I Directors James M. Zimmerman 66,485,777 240,160 Election of Class III Directors Elaine Agather 66,485,781 240,156 Tom Kartsotis 63,306,467 3,419,470 Jal S. Shroff 65,063,747 1,662,190 Donald J. Stone 63,236,350 3,489,587 Ratification of the appointment of Deloitte and Touche LLP 66,682,643 31,316 11,978 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol FOSL. Quotation of our common stock began on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on April 8, 1993. The following table sets forth the range of quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the fiscal years ended January 5, 2008 and January 6, 2007. High Low Fiscal year beginning January 7, 2007: First quarter $ 28.940 $ 20.980 Second quarter 31.970 26.520 Third quarter 39.340 24.810 Fourth quarter 46.250 33.280 Fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006: First quarter $ 23.840 $ 16.670 Second quarter 19.250 15.890 Third quarter 22.160 16.960 Fourth quarter 23.400 20.590 As of February 25, 2008, there were 145 holders of record, although we believe that the number of beneficial owners is much larger. Cash Dividend Policy. We did not pay any cash dividends in 2007, 2006 or 2005. We expect that we will retain all available earnings generated by our operations for the development and growth of our business and common stock buyback programs and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to a cash dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Common Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph compares the cumulative return of the common stock over the preceding five year periods with that of the Broad Market (CRSP Total Return Index of the NASDAQ Global Select Market (US)) and the NASDAQ Retail Trade Stocks. Each Index assumes $100 invested at December 31, 2002 and is calculated assuming quarterly reinvestment of dividends and quarterly weighting by market capitalization. 35 2007 COMPARATIVE TOTAL RETURNS Fossil, Inc., NASDAQ Global Select Market and NASDAQ Market Retail Trades Group (Performance Results through 12/31/07) 12/31/02 12/31/03 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 12/31/07 Fossil, Inc. 100.00 138.27 189.09 158.63 166.52 309.59 NASDAQ Global Select Market 100.00 149.52 162.72 166.18 182.57 197.98 NASDAQ Retail Trades 100.00 139.25 176.62 178.29 194.71 177.15 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities From September 14, 2007 to September 20, 2007, we issued 15,250 shares of our common stock upon the exercise of stock options granted to employees and contractors outside the U.S. for an aggregate of $175,521. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemptions from registration provided pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, because the shares were offered and sold outside the United States to non U.S. persons (as defined in Regulation S). 36 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES(1) Period (a) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased (b) Average Price Paid per Share (or Unit) (c) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (d) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 7, 2007 through November 6, 2007 $ 2,000,000 shares November 7, 2007 through December 6, 2007 114,715 $ 43.62 114,715 1,885,285 shares December 7, 2007 through January 5, 2008 306,747 $ 43.34 306,747 1,578,538 shares Total 421,462 $ 43.41 421,462 1,578,538 shares (1) We announced a Repurchase Plan (the Plan) on November 13, 2007, which became effective on December 3, 2007. Under the Plan, we may repurchase shares on any Tuesday or Wednesday, either in the open market or through private transactions. The Plan shall terminate upon the purchase of an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares of common stock or on May 1, 2008, whichever first occurs. 37 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereon. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Fiscal Year 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 1,432,984 $ 1,213,965 $ 1,043,120 $ 957,309 $ 781,175 Gross profit 742,031 608,919 535,140 502,610 398,018 Operating income 186,485 123,325 108,988 130,744 105,645 Income before taxes 187,526 118,795 102,948 136,208 106,492 Net income 123,261 (1) 77,582 75,670 (2) 89,545 (3) 66,076 Earnings per share: (4) Basic 1.81 (1) 1.15 1.07 (2) 1.27 (3) 0.95 Diluted 1.75 (1) 1.13 1.04 (2) 1.23 (3) 0.92 Weighted average common and common equivalent shares outstanding: (4) Basic 68,213 67,177 70,476 70,367 69,591 Diluted 70,333 68,817 72,424 72,998 71,935 Working capital $ 546,410 $ 357,608 $ 326,502 $ 369,864 $ 311,709 Total assets 1,122,628 852,597 745,142 783,423 587,738 Total long term liabilities 66,432 22,914 35,628 43,539 32,861 Stockholders equity 771,662 602,201 526,317 524,426 422,974 Return on average stockholders equity 18.3 % 14.2 % 14.0 % 19.2 % 17.8 % (1) Includes $8.6 million in expenses, net of tax, relating to our voluntary evaluation of our accounting for equity based compensation, including the appropriateness of accounting measurement dates used to determine the amounts of compensation charges and related tax effects which have been previously disclosed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2) Includes a one time tax benefit of $12 million related to the repatriation of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. (3) Includes one time after tax charges related to cumulative rent expense adjustments and settlement of a supplier claim of $2.0 million and $550,000 respectively. (4) All share and per share price data have been adjusted to reflect three for two stock splits effected in the form of a stock dividend paid on April 8, 2004. 38 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. Since our inception in 1984, we have grown into a global accessory company with a well recognized branded portfolio of watches delivered over an extensive distribution network. Our extensive line of fashion watches includes our proprietary brands as well as brands licensed from some of the most prestigious companies in the world. We also offer complementary lines of handbags, small leather goods, belts, and sunglasses under the FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL, DIESEL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL apparel. Our centralized infrastructure in design/development and production/sourcing allows us to leverage the strength of our accessories offerings over an extensive global distribution network. Our products are sold primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through 23 company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of approximately 56 independent distributors. Our wholesale business for leather and sunglass products is primarily conducted through U.S. and German department stores. Our foreign operations include wholly or majority owned subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. In addition, our products are offered at 244 company owned retail locations, located in the United States and certain international markets; authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks located in several major airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets; over the internet at www.fossil.com; and through our direct to consumer catalog. The expansion of our product lines worldwide and leveraging of our infrastructure have contributed to our increasing net sales and operating profits. This discussion should be read in conjuction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes attached thereto. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, long lived asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. 39 Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than tradenames whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statements of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our company owned full price retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. Impairment of Goodwill and Tradenames. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the book value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the book value of the reporting unit, no impairment loss is recognized. We evaluate tradenames annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to the book value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and 2006, we performed the required annual impairment tests and determined that no goodwill or tradename impairment existed. Income Taxes. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding significant or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate. We utilize a two step process for the recognition and measurement of the amount of benefit to be recorded in the financial statements for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This process requires that we first determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax position taken will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, on the basis of the technical merits of the position. We measure the amount of recognizable tax benefit for each tax position meeting the recognition threshold as the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. 40 New Accounting Standards In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)). SFAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date fair value. SFAS 141(R) significantly changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs and restructuring costs. In addition, under SFAS 141(R), changes in an acquired entitys deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. The provisions of this standard will apply to any acquisitions we complete on or after December 15, 2008. In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statement, an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method significantly changes the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders. The provisions of the standard will be effective for us beginning in fiscal year 2009. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting SFAS 160, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 introduces the fair value option, which permits entities to choose to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value at specified election dates. The entity will report unrealized gains and losses on the items on which it has elected the fair value option in earnings. SFAS 159 is effective beginning in fiscal year 2008. The adoption of SFAS 159 will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. Under SFAS 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. This standard primarily applies to those assets or liabilities that do not have a quoted market price. SFAS 157 is effective for financial assets and financial liabilities beginning in fiscal year 2008. The effective date of SFAS 157 was delayed by the FASB for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The delayed provisions of this standard will be effective for the Company in fiscal year 2009. The adoption of SFAS 157 will not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In June 2006 The Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued Issue 06 3, How Sales Taxes Collected from Customers and Remited to Governmental Authorities Should be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net Presentation) (EITF 06 3). EITF 06 3 addresses whether various non income taxes assessed by governmental authorities should be presented gross or net in an entitys income statement. Non income taxes include sales tax, use tax, excise tax, value added tax, and various taxes related to specific industries. The consensuses in EITF 06 3 were effective beginning in fiscal year 2007. The adoption of EITF 06 3 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) released Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). FIN 48 supplements FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, by defining the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as more likely than not to be sustained by the taxing authority. Tax benefits associated with positions taken or to be taken on tax returns where there is uncertainty as to whether the position will be challenged by the taxing authorities will be impacted by FIN 48. FIN 48 was effective for our fiscal year 2007. FIN 48 establishes a two step process for the recognition and measurement of the amount of benefit to be recorded in the financial statements for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This process requires the enterprise first to determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax position taken will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, on the basis of the technical merits of the position. FIN 48 requires that an enterprise measure the amount of recognizable tax benefit for each tax position meeting the recognition threshold as the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The cumulative effects of applying this interpretation resulted in a decrease of $6.1 million to the 2007 opening balance of retained earnings as a change in accounting principle. In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. Under SFAS 123R, public companies are required to measure the cost of services received in exchange for stock options and similar awards based on the grant date fair value of the award and recognize this cost in the income statement over the period during which an award recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 are no longer an alternative to financial statement recognition. 41 Effective for our fiscal year 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under this transition method, the measurement and the method of amortization of costs for share based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of January 1, 2006, are based on the same estimate of the grant date fair value and primarily the same amortization method that was previously used in the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosure. For equity awards granted after the date of adoption, we amortize share based compensation expense on a straight line basis over the vesting term. Compensation expense is recognized only for share based payments expected to vest. We estimate forfeitures at the date of grant based on historical experience and future expectations. The effect of forfeitures on the pro forma expense amounts was recognized based on actual forfeitures. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we utilized the intrinsic value based method of accounting under APB No. 25, and related interpretations, and adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No.123. In connection with our restatement, prior to December 31, 2005, for stock options issued with an exercise price below the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant, we recorded compensation expense for this intrinsic value in accordance with APB No. 25. The adoption of SFAS 123R resulted in share based compensation expense of approximately $5.3 million ($3.4 million net of tax), or approximately $0.05 for both basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2006. Included in the $5.3 million was a benefit of approximately $165,000 resulting from the cumulative effect of changing from recognizing forfeitures on an actual basis to an estimated basis. In conjunction with the implementation of SFAS 123R, $5.2 million of deferred compensation, previously recorded as a separate component of stockholders equity, was reclassified into additional paid in capital. 42 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the years indicated. Percentage Percentage change from change from Fiscal Year 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005 Net sales 100.0 % 18.0 % 100.0 % 16.4 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 48.2 14.2 49.8 19.1 48.7 Gross profit 51.8 21.9 50.2 13.8 51.3 Operating expenses 38.8 14.4 40.0 13.9 40.9 Operating income 13.0 51.2 10.2 13.2 10.4 Interest expense * 0.3 * Other income (expense) net 0.1 * (0.1 ) * (0.5 ) Income before income taxes 13.1 57.9 9.8 15.4 9.9 Income taxes 4.5 55.9 3.4 51.1 2.6 Net income 8.6 % 58.9 % 6.4 % 2.5 % 7.3 % * not meaningful The following table sets forth our consolidated net sales by segment, and components of certain segments, and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment, and components of certain segments, for the fiscal year indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 International wholesale: Europe $ 483.9 $ 378.7 $ 316.3 33.8 % 31.2 % 30.3 % Other 233.2 171.8 142.1 16.2 % 14.1 % 13.6 % Total international wholesale 717.1 550.5 458.4 50.0 % 45.3 % 43.9 % United States wholesale: Watch products 251.4 239.0 232.5 17.6 % 19.7 % 22.3 % Other products 209.2 203.7 179.2 14.6 % 16.8 % 17.2 % Total United States wholesale 460.6 442.7 411.7 32.2 % 36.5 % 39.5 % Direct to consumer 255.3 220.8 173.0 17.8 % 18.2 % 16.6 % Total net sales $ 1,433.0 $ 1,214.0 $ 1,043.1 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 43 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Net Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 10.9 % 16.9 % 27.8 % Other international wholesale 2.3 % 0.6 % 32.8 % 35.7 % United States wholesale 4.0 % 4.0 % Direct to consumer 1.7 % 13.9 % 15.6 % Consolidated 4.0 % 0.1 % 13.9 % 18.0 % Fiscal 2007 is a 52 week year as compared to a 53 week year for fiscal 2006. This extra week was included in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. We estimate the extra week increased net sales and operating expenses by approximately $16.0 million and $5.0 million, respectively, during 2006. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes attached hereto. European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. European wholesale sales growth was led by a 22.9% increase in licensed brand watches as a result of sales volume growth from our EMPORIO ARMANI, DKNY, DIESEL and MICHAEL KORS lines, partially offset by a decrease in sales volume growth from our ADIDAS line. The decrease in Adidas sales volume was due to the anniversarying of the launch of the line in 2006. Consistent growth of these licensed brands, many of which have been distributed in the European market for eight to ten years, exemplifies the Companys ability to continually provide innovative styling and build consumer awareness and acceptance of these recognizable fashion brands. Our FOSSIL watch and jewelry businesses also experienced significant growth, increasing approximately 16.9% and 17.0%, respectively. We believe the performance of our FOSSIL watch business in Europe is the result of the consumers positive response to the repositioning of the brand, including its unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint. The FOSSIL jewelry performance is primarily related to the sales volume growth of the line within Germany, where it was initially launched in 2001, and the continued roll out of the line to other European countries. We further believe the FOSSIL brand performance in the wholesale channel is attributable to the growth in our retail store base during the year which is furthering the awareness of the brand throughout the marketplace. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. Other international wholesale sales include sales from our Asia Pacific, Mexico and Canada subsidiaries and export sales from the United States. Our other international segment is growing rapidly as we expand into new markets and increase penetration of our brands in existing markets. Sales volume increases from licensed brands and FOSSIL watches in addition to our recent expansion of our owned presence in China were the primary drivers of growth. Sales of licensed watches increased 35.3% and was principally driven by our ARMANI, DKNY, DIESEL and BURBERRY brands. We also experienced significant growth in our FOSSIL watch line and our jewelry businesses, which grew 30.2% and 41.0%, respectively. Our shop in shop concepts in the Asia Pacific region continue to build awareness for our brands and are allowing us to gain market share within the department store environment. With very low penetration rates in many of the countries within this segment and our recent expansion of our owned presence in China, Korea and India, we expect the segment to continue to deliver the highest percentage sales growth amongst our wholesale businesses. We also believe that significant retail developments occurring in many of these newer markets today will allow many of our businesses the opportunity to increase in size. 44 Our international wholesale businesses have grown to represent 50% of our total sales and almost two thirds of our global wholesale activities. We believe our distinctive business model of owning the distribution in key markets and offering a globally recognized portfolio of proprietary and licensed brands, allows for many competitive advantages over smaller, regional or local competitors. This ownership of the market allows us to bypass the local distributors cost structure resulting in more competitively priced products while also generating higher product and operating margins. Additionally, we believe that the global recognition of our branded portfolio of watches and jewelry positions us as a significant resource to retailers throughout the international marketplace. Our strategy is not to force any one brand into a specific market, but rather allow the market to dictate which brands are important based upon consumer preference. We believe our global distribution network and our design and marketing capabilities will allow us to continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands. Additionally, we believe our global infrastructure and proven success in both launching and building brands favorably positions us to continue to attract globally recognized brands as potential licensors or aquire additional brands that will position us for further penetration internationally. United States Wholesale Net Sales. United States wholesale watch sales increased 5.2% primarily due to sales volume growth from licensed brand watches and to a lesser extent RELIC and mass market watches, partially offset by decreases in FOSSIL brand watch sales. Licensed watch sales increased by 28.9% and were primarily attributable to the continued roll out of MICHAEL KORS and MARC BY MARC to additional department store doors and increased penetration of BURBERRY and DIESEL watches. The merger of Federated Department Stores and May Company has resulted in additional shelf space for our licensed brands, primarily due to Macys expanding the presence of these brands beyond levels experienced in the former May Company stores. RELIC brand watch sales increased 14.0% , and we believe this growth was attributable to new styles introduced during 2007 that are gaining market share at both JCPenney and Kohls. In 2007, we experienced an 8% gain in wholesale shipments of private label products to the mass distribution channel. Based upon the current penetration levels of our offerings, we feel we have the opportunity to continue to experience growth in this category considering the overall size of the mass market channel. We attribute our growth in the mass distribution channel to further penetration of the private label products we support. FOSSIL watch sales decreased approximately 6.8% in 2007, however, excluding sales to the off price channel during 2007 and 2006, FOSSIL watch sales were flat between 2007 and 2006. However, we have seen sequential quarterly improvement in wholesale shipments of FOSSIL watches during the year and the brand performed well within the department store environment during the difficult holiday period. We believe the repositioning of the brand over the last 18 months, including its unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint, is resonating well with consumers. We believe the performance of FOSSIL watches was negatively impacted during the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of production delays and disruptions caused by the launch of our new e commerce platform. Net sales in our other United States products category, that primarily include handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, jewelry and cold weather accessories, increased 2.7%. This increase included $3.6 million and $1.6 million from the launch of our FOSSIL accessories jewelry line and cold weather category, respectively, during the second half of 2007. Additionally, we experienced sales volume growth in FOSSIL handbags, RELIC leather goods and our sunglass business. These increases were partially offset by sales declines in our small leather goods and belt categories of 15.9% and 39.9%, respectively. We believe the decrease in our small leather goods and belt categories are attributable to reduced consumer interest in these categories during 2007. Our FOSSIL handbag business growth of 5.3% for the year was primarily related to a solid holiday performance resulting in a 13.5% increase during our fourth quarter. We began shipping new styles in the FOSSIL handbag line during the second half of 2007, including a revamped core leather group geared towards the brands new modern vintage styling and aspiration viewpoint. In addition, our handbag results were positively impacted by the launch of FIFTY FOUR FOSSIL handbags, a premium line priced from $250 to $450, that we launched during the third quarter to 50 Macys and Dillards doors. RELIC leather good sales increased 8.1% and was primarily attributable to sales volume growth in our handbag line with JCPenney and Kohls. Sales from our sunglass business rose 10.6% with solid results in both the FOSSIL and RELIC brand. 45 Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 15.6% during the year as a result of a 20.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 2.3%. Net sales from our e commerce businesses increased 1.5% which is principally attributable to the September launch of our first commercial website outside the U.S., in Germany, which generated sales of $1.0 million, partially offset by a 3.3% decrease in our U.S. based e commerce business. The 2.3% increase in comparable store sales was negatively impacted by a 3.4% comparable store sales decrease during the fourth quarter. Factors that we believe negatively impacted our fourth quarter retail store results and e commerce based business included production delays of several key advertised styles, disruptions caused by the launch of our new e commerce platform and a generally weak U.S. retail environment resulting in decreased mall foot traffic. We experienced comparable store sales increases of 5.2% in our 70 full price accessory concept stores during 2007. Since 2006, our new accessory stores reflect a redesign of our historical presentation to a more modern vintage image that focuses on a more aspirational lifestyle customer. Our retail strategy is to position our FOSSIL stores as the destination within the mall for customers to shop for accessories. At the end of 2007, we operated 244 stores, including 113 full price accessory stores, 55 of which are outside the U.S., 80 outlet locations, including 6 outside the U.S.; 33 apparel stores; and 18 multi brand stores. This compares to 198 stores at the end of fiscal 2006, which included 73 full price accessory stores, 31 located outside the U.S.; 78 outlet locations, including 4 outside the U.S.; 32 apparel stores; and 15 multi branded stores. We opened 53 new stores and closed 7 stores during the year. For 2008, our plans are to open 80 to 85 stores, concentrating on the full price accessory concept with equal distribution between U.S. and international locations. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by 21.9% to $742.0 million with gross profit margin expanding by 160 basis points to 51.8% compared to 50.2% in the prior year. The improvement in margin included an approximate 140 basis point benefit related to the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Additionally, gross profit margin was favorably impacted by an increased sales mix of higher margin international sales, an increase in the outlet store margins and positive results from our internal initiative to improve our gross profit margin. A reduction in the level of discontinued styles and excess inventory encountered in 2007 in comparison to 2006 allowed us to establish higher average prices in our outlet stores, leading to improved gross profit margins. Additionally, focus on improving our product costs and retail pricing on new styles began to positively impact our gross margin late in 2007. These favorable increases in gross profit margin were partially offset by increased levels of lower margin sales to distributors, a slight increase in wholesale markdowns and slightly higher duty costs. Our consolidated gross product margin is impacted by our diversified business model that includes but is not limited to: (i) a significant number of product categories we distribute, (ii) the multiple brands we offer within many of these categories, (iii) the geographical presence of our businesses, and (iv) the different distribution channels we sell to or through. The components of this diversified business model produce varying ranges of gross profit margin. Generally, on a historical basis, our fashion branded watch, jewelry and sunglass offerings produce higher gross profit margins than our leather goods categories. In addition, in most product categories that we offer, brands with higher retail price points generally produce higher gross profit margins compared to those of lower retail priced brands. From a segment standpoint, our direct to consumer business generally produces the highest gross profit margin as a result of these sales being direct to the ultimate consumer. Gross profit margins related to sales in our international wholesale segment are historically lower than our retail segment, but historically higher than our United States wholesale segment primarily due to the following factors: (i) overall retail prices for comparable product sold in the United States are generally higher in our international businesses as a result of less competitive fashion and designer brands being offered in these markets; (ii) the product sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our United States wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of watches; and (iii) the watch sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our United States wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of higher priced licensed brands. 46 Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses increased $70.0 million to $555.5 million and included $13.1 million of one time charges relating to our voluntary evaluation of our accounting for equity based compensation, including the appropriateness of accounting measurement dates used to determine the amounts of compensation charges and related tax effects which have been previously disclosed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2007 (the Grant Review). As a percent of sales, operating expenses decreased 120 basis points to 38.8% compared to 40.0% in 2006. Excluding the impact of expenses related to the Grant Review, the increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $16.1 million of expenses related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses as a result of a weakening U.S. dollar and increased payroll, rent and facilities expenses, primarily associated with our retail store growth. Payroll expense increases were further impacted by increased costs attributable to our incentive cash and equity compensation plans and increased back office headcount to support our retail store growth. To a lesser extent, operating expense increased as a result of new category launches and increases in certain variable expenses as a result of higher levels of sales. In 2008, although we expect to leverage the infrastructure associated with our wholesale business activities, as sales increase, we believe the leverage gains will be generally offset as a result of our anticipated retail store expansion initiative. Operating expense levels, as a percentage of sales, are substantially higher in our retail stores when compared to that of our wholesale activities. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. Amounts in millions 2007 2006 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 155.4 32 % $ 141.8 37 % Other international wholesale 64.3 28 % 52.8 31 % United States wholesale (1) 209.7 46 % 196.9 44 % Direct to consumer 126.1 49 % 94.1 43 % Total $ 555.5 39 % $ 485.6 40 % (1) Certain corporate costs not allocated to individual operating segments for management reporting purposes and intercompany eliminations for specific income statement items are reflected in the United States wholesale segment. Operating Income. Operating income increased 51.2% to $186.5 compared to $123.3 million in 2006. Operating income margin increased to 13.0% compared to 10.2% in 2006. The increase in our operating income margin was favorably impacted by increased gross profit margin, operating expense leverage and $29.0 million of net currency gains related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into U.S. dollars. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased by approximately $2.7 million to $0.9 million compared to $3.6 million in 2006. This decrease is principally due to the payment of previously outstanding borrowings on our U.S. based revolving line of credit at the end of 2006. These borrowings were primarily used for common stock repurchases in late 2005 and early 2006 as well as capital expenditures. Other Income (Expense) Net. Other income (expense) net primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries and equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During 2007, other income (expense) net increased favorably by approximately $2.9 million as a result of increased interest income resulting from higher levels of invested cash balances and increases in equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture. These favorable increases were partially offset by foreign currency transaction losses and increased minority interest expense. Foreign currency transaction losses are primarily related to the settlement of inventory purchases through established forward contracts at rates below the prevailing spot rate at the time of settlement. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% during 2007 compared to 34.7% in the prior year. The lower effective tax rate in 2007 is primarily attributable to higher foreign income taxed at lower effective rates. 47 Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Net Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 2 % % 18 % 20 % Other international wholesale 9 12 21 United States wholesale 9 9 Direct to consumer 1 24 25 Total 1 % 1 % 14 % 16 % Fiscal 2006 is a 53 week year as compared to a 52 week year for fiscal 2005. We estimate this extra week increased net sales and operating expenses by approximately $16 million and $5 million respectively, as compared to fiscal year 2005. European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. European wholesale sales growth was primarily due to sales volume increases in FOSSIL jewelry and FOSSIL and licensed brand watches, as well as the contribution from our new ADIDAS watch licensed business that was launched in early 2006. FOSSIL jewelry sales grew by 25.3% as a result of continued market share growth in Germany and from expansion into other parts of Europe. Net sales increases in our FOSSIL watch brand of 3.6% are the result of renewed innovation and design in our product offerings. Licensed watch brand net sales increases of 21.3% are related to market share growth in certain European markets and new styles introduced across many of our licensed brands. We also believe our watch businesses in Europe benefited from overall improved economic conditions during 2006 in comparison to 2005. Net sales from the ADIDAS watch brand, a newly licensed watch business we launched during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, contributed approximately $14.7 million to European net sales during 2006. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. Other international wholesale sales include sales from our Asia Pacific and Canada subsidiaries, export sales from the United States and sales from our Mexico business that was acquired in early 2006. Net sales increases from this segment of our businesses were principally related to sales volume growth in our licensed brand watches. Licensed watches increased by 24.6% in this segment, principally related to renewed innovation and design in new styles introduced into this segment of our business during 2006 and further penetration of certain licensed brands into many of our Asian Pacific markets. United States Wholesale Net Sales. United States watch sales increased 2.8% in 2006 principally due to sales volume growth in mass market, licensed and RELIC brand watches. Our mass market watch business increased by $7.5 million, or 35.9%, and is primarily attributable to our successful partnership with Wal Mart that resulted in being recognized as Wal Marts Vendor of the Year for 2006 in the jewelry, watch and accessory division. Licensed brand watch sales increased by 24.8% in 2006 principally resulting from market share gains from our BURBERRY licensed brand and sales resulting from the launch of MARC BY MARC JACOBS and ADIDAS. Net sales from our FOSSIL watch brand declined by approximately 8.1% during 2006. Excluding the effect of discontinued product sales from both 2006 and 2005, the decline was approximately 10.1%. Although the FOSSIL brand net sales declined on a comparative full year basis, the brands performance strengthened consistently on a sequential quarter basis throughout 2006 and posted a 4.5% increase during the more seasonal fourth quarter of 2006. We believe this improved performance is related to renewed innovation and design in new styles introduced to the market during 2006. Consumers seemed to respond to the newness and differentiation in our watch styles and gravitated towards our higher price point styles resulting in average unit retail price increases of approximately 10% during the year. We also believe the introduction of our FOSSIL brand catalog in late 2005 and increased circulation in 2006, combined with continued investment in our web based marketing programs were instrumental in the overall improvement of the FOSSIL watch business during 2006. 48 Net sales from our other United States product businesses rose 13.7% during 2006 as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL womens handbags and small leather goods, RELIC belts and gift categories and RELIC sunglasses. Although we experienced strong double digit net sales gains in our womens leather goods categories during 2005 and were operating in fewer doors given the consolidation of Federated/May, our womens leather business recorded strong gains on a comparable door basis during 2006. Net sales from our womens handbag and small leather goods categories increased by 10.1% and 14.3%, respectively, during 2006. In 2006, we continued to drive higher average unit retails in our handbag business by introducing new fabrics and leather as well as unique treatments to our product assortment. Also fueling the increase in our FOSSIL leather goods category was the successful introduction of our mens bag business to the line. Net sales from RELIC belts and gift categories increased by 38.5% primarily due to the strength of our offerings in JCPenney and Kohls. Relic eyewear net sales increased by 67.9% during 2006 resulting from an expansion into new doors and additional displays. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 27.6% during 2006 as a result of a 19.8% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 7.4%. Net sales from our e commerce business increased 18.7% as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL leather goods and from the launch of newly developed non FOSSIL branded websites and the FOSSIL catalog. We operated 198 stores at the end of 2006 consisting of 120 full price stores, including 41 located outside the United States, and 78 outlet locations, including 4 stores outside the United States. This compares to 170 stores at the end of 2005 including 98 full price stores, 30 of which are located outside the United States and 72 outlet locations, including one store outside the United States. We opened 36 new stores and closed 8 stores during 2006. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin decreased 110 basis points in 2006 to 50.2% compared to 51.3% in 2005. This margin decline can be attributed primarily to a sales mix shift toward lower margin product sales in our international segment and the impact of increased discontinued product sales, through both non traditional channels and our outlet stores at lower than historical gross profit margins. To a lesser extent, gross profit margin further declined as a result of an increased sales mix in our United States segment of lower margin mass market watches and higher markdown levels, primarily in the United States accessories business, due to the transition of May Company stores to Federated. Additionally, gross profit margins were negatively impacted as a result of certain new styles added to our global watch assortment which generated lower gross profit margins than historical averages. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin decreases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our higher margin producing full price company owned retail stores. 49 Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $59 million during 2006 and, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 40.0% of net sales compared to 40.9% for 2005. 2006 operating expenses increased approximately $3.4 million as a result of businesses acquired in 2006 and approximately $2.9 million due to foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the operating expenses of acquired businesses and the impact of foreign currencies, operating expense increases during 2006 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, rent and depreciation and amortization expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional headcount to support new initiatives, including the ADIDAS watch and DIESEL and MICHELE jewelry businesses launched in 2006, non cash compensation expense due to the implementation of FAS 123R and increased payroll expense in connection with our retail store growth. Payroll expense increases also included an approximate $3.5 million associated with the additional week in the first quarter of 2006. Rent expense increased 21.0% primarily due to the expansion of our retail stores. Depreciation and amortization expense increases are primarily related to leasehold improvements and in store fixturing associated with new retail store openings during 2005 and 2006, additional hardware and software additions and depreciation related to the SAP implementation in France finalized in May 2005. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. Amounts in millions 2006 2005 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 141.8 37 % $ 116.5 37 % Other international wholesale 52.8 31 % 43.3 30 % United States wholesale (1) 196.9 44 % 188.4 46 % Direct to consumer 94.1 43 % 78.0 45 % Total $ 485.6 40 % $ 426.2 41 % (1) Certain corporate costs not allocated to individual operating segments for management reporting purposes and intercompany eliminations for specific income statement items are reflected in the United States wholesale segment. Operating Income. The decline in our gross profit margin was partially offset by the leverage in our operating expenses resulting in our operating profit margin decreasing to 10.2% in 2006 compared to 10.4% in the prior year. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased by approximately $3.2 million in 2006 to $3.6 million compared to $321,000 in 2005. This increase is related to the impact of higher outstanding borrowings under our revolving lines of credit that were principally used to fund approximately $85 million of common stock repurchases occurring during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and capital expenditures of $50.8 million during 2006. Other Income (Expense) Net. During 2006, other income (expense) net decreased favorably by approximately $4.7 million principally due to $2 million of currency gains recorded in 2006 compared to $3.8 million of currency losses in 2005. This favorable increase was partially offset by a $1.2 million reduction in equity in the earnings of our joint venture in Spain. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate increased to 34.7% during 2006 compared to 26.5% in the prior year. The lower effective tax rate in 2005 was the result of our ability, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, to reduce previously recorded deferred tax liabilities by repatriating foreign earnings at an effective tax rate substantially below the statutory rate at which these deferred tax liabilities were established. 50 Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. We believe that, to the extent inflation affects our costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our general business operations have not required substantial cash during the first quarter of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame as we increase inventory levels in advance of the holiday season. Our cash and cash equivalent balances as of the end of fiscal year 2007 increased to $255 million in comparison to $133 million at the end of the prior year. Of the $255 million of cash and cash equivalents at fiscal year end 2007, $108 million is held in banks outside the United States. The increase in our cash holdings is primarily the result of $132 million of net cash generated from operating activities and $30 million of cash flow generated from financing activities, partially offset by $53 million of cash used in investing activities. Cash flows generated from operating activities were primarily related to net income of $123 million, non cash items of approximately $24 million, $101 million of cash from increased current liabilities, partially offset by $20 million and $76 million of cash from increased inventory and accounts receivable balances, respectively. Cash flows used in investing activities were primarily related to fixed asset additions of $40 million. Cash generated from financing activities was primarily related to $47 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and related excess tax benefits of such exercises, partially offset by $16 million of common stock repurchases. Accounts receivable at the end of 2007 increased by 46.5% to $227 million compared to $155 million at the end of 2006. As a result, average days sales outstanding increased to 49 days from 45 days in the prior year, primarily due to higher levels of international sales that generally result in longer collection cycles than those experienced in the U.S. and a shift in wholesale sales occurring later in the fourth quarter during 2007 compared to 2006. The shift in wholesale sales was primarily related to production delays on certain watch styles that resulted in later deliveries for the holiday season. Fiscal 2007 ending inventory of $248 million represents a 8.9% increase compared to $228 million in the prior year despite an approximate additional $3.2 million of inventory related to 46 net retail stores opened since the end of the prior year. At the end of 2007, we had working capital of $546 million compared to working capital of $358 million at the end of the prior year. We had approximately $10 million and $11 million of outstanding short term borrowings at the end of 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to short term borrowings in the UK and Japan. In the second quarter of 2007, our UK subsidiary renewed its revolving credit facility with their primary bank allowing borrowings of up to 4 million Great British Pounds. Outstanding borrowings under the UK based facility were $5.9 million at the end of 2007 and bear interest at the aggregate of the margin, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and Mandatory Lending Agreement (MLA) costs, (7.11% on a combined basis at year end). Borrowings outstanding under this facility are due in May 2008. The remaining $3.7 million in borrowings are under a short term facility in Japan bearing interest at the Euroyen rate (approximately 1.65% at year end), due in May 2008. The facilities were primarily utilized for working capital needs associated with our UK and Japanese subsidiaries. At the end of 2007, we had no outstanding borrowings under our $100 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility which bears interest at our option of (i) the LIBOR base rate (4.52% at year end) plus 50 basis points, or (ii) the lesser of (a) the higher of Wells Fargos prime rate (7.25% at year end) less 1.0%, or 3.0%, or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law. We have typically renewed this short term credit facility in September each year. At the end of 2007, our wholly owned subsidiary, Fossil Group Europe, Gmbh (FGE), had outstanding long term borrowings, in the form of a term note, of $3.5 million. This note has a variable interest term with an interest rate at year end 2007 of 3.0% with interest payments due quarterly. This note requires minimum principal payments of 100,000 Swiss Francs each year with no stated maturity and no penalties for early termination. During 2008, we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $75 to $80 million to principally support new company owned retail store openings, costs associated with the implementation of an SAP point of sale system for our company owned retail stores and other general maintenance requirements. We believe that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our capital needs during 2008. We also have access to amounts available under our credit facilities should additional funds be required. 51 Contractual Obligations The following table presents, as of January 5, 2008, a summary of our significant cash contractual obligations by payment date. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 7 and Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Debt obligations (1) $ 13,147 $ 9,695 $ 181 $ 181 $ 3,090 Minimum royalty payments (2) 113,063 49,778 39,020 24,265 Capital lease obligations 2,046 327 669 679 371 Operating lease obligations 228,241 40,762 71,245 49,830 66,404 Purchase obligations (3) 49,698 49,302 342 54 Uncertain tax positions (4) 24,953 24,953 Total contractual cash obligations $ 431,148 $ 174,817 $ 111,457 $ 75,009 $ 69,865 (1) Consists of borrowings in the United Kingdom, Japan and Switzerland excluding contractual interest payments that are variable in nature. (2) Consists of primarily exclusive licenses to manufacture watches under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. (3) Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. (4) Management has only included its current FIN 48 liability in the table above. The long term amounts of $37.7 million have been excluded because the payment timing cannot be reasonably estimated. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Certain line items presented in the tables below, when aggregated, may not agree to the corresponding line items on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 due to rounding. 52 Fiscal Year 2007 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 304,825 $ 306,464 $ 358,582 $ 463,112 Gross profit 156,119 150,530 186,956 248,425 Operating expenses 123,564 127,414 138,502 166,065 Operating income 32,555 23,116 48,454 82,360 Income before income taxes 33,829 23,239 49,671 80,786 Provision for income taxes 8,797 8,567 19,218 27,683 Net income 25,032 14,672 30,453 53,103 Earnings per share: Basic 0.37 0.22 0.45 0.77 Diluted 0.36 0.21 0.43 0.75 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 51.2 % 49.1 % 52.1 % 53.6 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 40.5 % 41.6 % 38.6 % 35.9 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 10.7 % 7.5 % 13.5 % 17.8 % Fiscal Year 2006 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales. $ 264,225 $ 259,238 $ 299,697 $ 390,805 Gross profit 133,014 127,034 148,106 200,765 Operating expenses 116,022 110,838 115,153 143,581 Operating income 16,992 16,196 32,953 57,184 Income before income taxes 15,492 15,610 31,941 55,752 Provision for income taxes 5,776 4,372 10,400 20,665 Net income 9,716 11,238 21,541 35,087 Earnings per share: Basic 0.14 0.17 0.32 0.52 Diluted 0.14 0.16 0.31 0.51 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 50.3 % 49.0 % 49.4 % 51.4 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 43.9 % 42.8 % 38.4 % 36.7 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 6.4 % 6.2 % 11.0 % 14.6 % 53 While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the back to school and Christmas season, generated approximately 70% of our annual operating income for 2007. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter of the following year as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. We currently believe that our inventory levels at our major customers at the end of 2007 were near their targeted inventory levels. As we continue to grow in the direct to consumer segment, we believe we will continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a percent of sales, we believe operating expenses will be more significant in the first half of the year when due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores, personnel and infrastructure costs incurred in the back half of the prior year carry into the following year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro, British Pound and, to a lesser extent, the Swiss Franc, as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of practices to manage this market risk, including our operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of foreign currency forward contracts. The use of these instruments allows management to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in 2007 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At year end we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 78.0 million Euro for approximately $110.6 million, expiring through December 2008 and approximately 10.9 million British Pounds for $22.1 million, expiring through December 2008. If we were to settle our Euro and British Pound based contracts at fiscal year end 2007, the net result would be a net loss of approximately $2.8 million, net of taxes. Exclusive of these outstanding foreign exchange contracts or other operating or financing activities that may be employed by us, a measurement of the unfavorable impact of a 10 percent change in the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc as compared to the U.S. dollar would have on our operating profits and stockholders equity is presented in the following paragraph. At fiscal year end 2007, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc involving balance sheet transactional exposures would have reduced net pre tax income by $6.3 million. The translation of the balance sheets of our European, United Kingdom and Switzerland based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2007, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $21.8 million. In the view of management, the risks associated with exchange rate changes in other currencies we have exposure to are not material and these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 54 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a design, development, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. Since our inception in 1984, we have grown into a global accessory company with a well recognized branded portfolio of watches delivered over an extensive distribution network. Our extensive line of fashion watches includes our proprietary brands as well as brands licensed from some of the most prestigious companies in the world. We also offer complementary lines of handbags, small leather goods, belts, and sunglasses under the FOSSIL and RELIC brands, jewelry under the FOSSIL, DIESEL and EMPORIO ARMANI brands and FOSSIL apparel. Our centralized infrastructure in design/development and production/sourcing allows us to leverage the strength of our accessories offerings over an extensive global distribution network. Our products are sold primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in over 90 countries worldwide through 23 company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of approximately 56 independent distributors. Our wholesale business for leather and sunglass products is primarily conducted through U.S. and German department stores. Our foreign operations include wholly or majority owned subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. In addition, our products are offered at 244 company owned retail locations, located in the United States and certain international markets; authorized FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks located in several major airports, on cruise ships and in certain international markets; over the internet at www.fossil.com; and through our direct to consumer catalog. The expansion of our product lines worldwide and leveraging of our infrastructure have contributed to our increasing net sales and operating profits. This discussion should be read in conjuction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes attached thereto. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, long lived asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize. Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by the review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. 39 Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than tradenames whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statements of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our company owned full price retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. Impairment of Goodwill and Tradenames. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the book value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the book value of the reporting unit, no impairment loss is recognized. We evaluate tradenames annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to the book value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and 2006, we performed the required annual impairment tests and determined that no goodwill or tradename impairment existed. Income Taxes. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding significant or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate. We utilize a two step process for the recognition and measurement of the amount of benefit to be recorded in the financial statements for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This process requires that we first determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax position taken will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, on the basis of the technical merits of the position. We measure the amount of recognizable tax benefit for each tax position meeting the recognition threshold as the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. 40 New Accounting Standards In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)). SFAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date fair value. SFAS 141(R) significantly changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs and restructuring costs. In addition, under SFAS 141(R), changes in an acquired entitys deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. The provisions of this standard will apply to any acquisitions we complete on or after December 15, 2008. In December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statement, an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method significantly changes the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders. The provisions of the standard will be effective for us beginning in fiscal year 2009. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting SFAS 160, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 introduces the fair value option, which permits entities to choose to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value at specified election dates. The entity will report unrealized gains and losses on the items on which it has elected the fair value option in earnings. SFAS 159 is effective beginning in fiscal year 2008. The adoption of SFAS 159 will not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. Under SFAS 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. This standard primarily applies to those assets or liabilities that do not have a quoted market price. SFAS 157 is effective for financial assets and financial liabilities beginning in fiscal year 2008. The effective date of SFAS 157 was delayed by the FASB for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The delayed provisions of this standard will be effective for the Company in fiscal year 2009. The adoption of SFAS 157 will not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In June 2006 The Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) issued Issue 06 3, How Sales Taxes Collected from Customers and Remited to Governmental Authorities Should be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net Presentation) (EITF 06 3). EITF 06 3 addresses whether various non income taxes assessed by governmental authorities should be presented gross or net in an entitys income statement. Non income taxes include sales tax, use tax, excise tax, value added tax, and various taxes related to specific industries. The consensuses in EITF 06 3 were effective beginning in fiscal year 2007. The adoption of EITF 06 3 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) released Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48). FIN 48 supplements FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, by defining the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as more likely than not to be sustained by the taxing authority. Tax benefits associated with positions taken or to be taken on tax returns where there is uncertainty as to whether the position will be challenged by the taxing authorities will be impacted by FIN 48. FIN 48 was effective for our fiscal year 2007. FIN 48 establishes a two step process for the recognition and measurement of the amount of benefit to be recorded in the financial statements for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This process requires the enterprise first to determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax position taken will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, on the basis of the technical merits of the position. FIN 48 requires that an enterprise measure the amount of recognizable tax benefit for each tax position meeting the recognition threshold as the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The cumulative effects of applying this interpretation resulted in a decrease of $6.1 million to the 2007 opening balance of retained earnings as a change in accounting principle. In December 2004, FASB issued SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. Under SFAS 123R, public companies are required to measure the cost of services received in exchange for stock options and similar awards based on the grant date fair value of the award and recognize this cost in the income statement over the period during which an award recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 are no longer an alternative to financial statement recognition. 41 Effective for our fiscal year 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. Under this transition method, the measurement and the method of amortization of costs for share based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of January 1, 2006, are based on the same estimate of the grant date fair value and primarily the same amortization method that was previously used in the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosure. For equity awards granted after the date of adoption, we amortize share based compensation expense on a straight line basis over the vesting term. Compensation expense is recognized only for share based payments expected to vest. We estimate forfeitures at the date of grant based on historical experience and future expectations. The effect of forfeitures on the pro forma expense amounts was recognized based on actual forfeitures. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, we utilized the intrinsic value based method of accounting under APB No. 25, and related interpretations, and adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No.123. In connection with our restatement, prior to December 31, 2005, for stock options issued with an exercise price below the fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant, we recorded compensation expense for this intrinsic value in accordance with APB No. 25. The adoption of SFAS 123R resulted in share based compensation expense of approximately $5.3 million ($3.4 million net of tax), or approximately $0.05 for both basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2006. Included in the $5.3 million was a benefit of approximately $165,000 resulting from the cumulative effect of changing from recognizing forfeitures on an actual basis to an estimated basis. In conjunction with the implementation of SFAS 123R, $5.2 million of deferred compensation, previously recorded as a separate component of stockholders equity, was reclassified into additional paid in capital. 42 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the years indicated. Percentage Percentage change from change from Fiscal Year 2007 2006 2006 2005 2005 Net sales 100.0 % 18.0 % 100.0 % 16.4 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 48.2 14.2 49.8 19.1 48.7 Gross profit 51.8 21.9 50.2 13.8 51.3 Operating expenses 38.8 14.4 40.0 13.9 40.9 Operating income 13.0 51.2 10.2 13.2 10.4 Interest expense * 0.3 * Other income (expense) net 0.1 * (0.1 ) * (0.5 ) Income before income taxes 13.1 57.9 9.8 15.4 9.9 Income taxes 4.5 55.9 3.4 51.1 2.6 Net income 8.6 % 58.9 % 6.4 % 2.5 % 7.3 % * not meaningful The following table sets forth our consolidated net sales by segment, and components of certain segments, and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment, and components of certain segments, for the fiscal year indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 International wholesale: Europe $ 483.9 $ 378.7 $ 316.3 33.8 % 31.2 % 30.3 % Other 233.2 171.8 142.1 16.2 % 14.1 % 13.6 % Total international wholesale 717.1 550.5 458.4 50.0 % 45.3 % 43.9 % United States wholesale: Watch products 251.4 239.0 232.5 17.6 % 19.7 % 22.3 % Other products 209.2 203.7 179.2 14.6 % 16.8 % 17.2 % Total United States wholesale 460.6 442.7 411.7 32.2 % 36.5 % 39.5 % Direct to consumer 255.3 220.8 173.0 17.8 % 18.2 % 16.6 % Total net sales $ 1,433.0 $ 1,214.0 $ 1,043.1 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 43 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Net Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 10.9 % 16.9 % 27.8 % Other international wholesale 2.3 % 0.6 % 32.8 % 35.7 % United States wholesale 4.0 % 4.0 % Direct to consumer 1.7 % 13.9 % 15.6 % Consolidated 4.0 % 0.1 % 13.9 % 18.0 % Fiscal 2007 is a 52 week year as compared to a 53 week year for fiscal 2006. This extra week was included in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. We estimate the extra week increased net sales and operating expenses by approximately $16.0 million and $5.0 million, respectively, during 2006. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes attached hereto. European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. European wholesale sales growth was led by a 22.9% increase in licensed brand watches as a result of sales volume growth from our EMPORIO ARMANI, DKNY, DIESEL and MICHAEL KORS lines, partially offset by a decrease in sales volume growth from our ADIDAS line. The decrease in Adidas sales volume was due to the anniversarying of the launch of the line in 2006. Consistent growth of these licensed brands, many of which have been distributed in the European market for eight to ten years, exemplifies the Companys ability to continually provide innovative styling and build consumer awareness and acceptance of these recognizable fashion brands. Our FOSSIL watch and jewelry businesses also experienced significant growth, increasing approximately 16.9% and 17.0%, respectively. We believe the performance of our FOSSIL watch business in Europe is the result of the consumers positive response to the repositioning of the brand, including its unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint. The FOSSIL jewelry performance is primarily related to the sales volume growth of the line within Germany, where it was initially launched in 2001, and the continued roll out of the line to other European countries. We further believe the FOSSIL brand performance in the wholesale channel is attributable to the growth in our retail store base during the year which is furthering the awareness of the brand throughout the marketplace. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. Other international wholesale sales include sales from our Asia Pacific, Mexico and Canada subsidiaries and export sales from the United States. Our other international segment is growing rapidly as we expand into new markets and increase penetration of our brands in existing markets. Sales volume increases from licensed brands and FOSSIL watches in addition to our recent expansion of our owned presence in China were the primary drivers of growth. Sales of licensed watches increased 35.3% and was principally driven by our ARMANI, DKNY, DIESEL and BURBERRY brands. We also experienced significant growth in our FOSSIL watch line and our jewelry businesses, which grew 30.2% and 41.0%, respectively. Our shop in shop concepts in the Asia Pacific region continue to build awareness for our brands and are allowing us to gain market share within the department store environment. With very low penetration rates in many of the countries within this segment and our recent expansion of our owned presence in China, Korea and India, we expect the segment to continue to deliver the highest percentage sales growth amongst our wholesale businesses. We also believe that significant retail developments occurring in many of these newer markets today will allow many of our businesses the opportunity to increase in size. 44 Our international wholesale businesses have grown to represent 50% of our total sales and almost two thirds of our global wholesale activities. We believe our distinctive business model of owning the distribution in key markets and offering a globally recognized portfolio of proprietary and licensed brands, allows for many competitive advantages over smaller, regional or local competitors. This ownership of the market allows us to bypass the local distributors cost structure resulting in more competitively priced products while also generating higher product and operating margins. Additionally, we believe that the global recognition of our branded portfolio of watches and jewelry positions us as a significant resource to retailers throughout the international marketplace. Our strategy is not to force any one brand into a specific market, but rather allow the market to dictate which brands are important based upon consumer preference. We believe our global distribution network and our design and marketing capabilities will allow us to continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands. Additionally, we believe our global infrastructure and proven success in both launching and building brands favorably positions us to continue to attract globally recognized brands as potential licensors or aquire additional brands that will position us for further penetration internationally. United States Wholesale Net Sales. United States wholesale watch sales increased 5.2% primarily due to sales volume growth from licensed brand watches and to a lesser extent RELIC and mass market watches, partially offset by decreases in FOSSIL brand watch sales. Licensed watch sales increased by 28.9% and were primarily attributable to the continued roll out of MICHAEL KORS and MARC BY MARC to additional department store doors and increased penetration of BURBERRY and DIESEL watches. The merger of Federated Department Stores and May Company has resulted in additional shelf space for our licensed brands, primarily due to Macys expanding the presence of these brands beyond levels experienced in the former May Company stores. RELIC brand watch sales increased 14.0% , and we believe this growth was attributable to new styles introduced during 2007 that are gaining market share at both JCPenney and Kohls. In 2007, we experienced an 8% gain in wholesale shipments of private label products to the mass distribution channel. Based upon the current penetration levels of our offerings, we feel we have the opportunity to continue to experience growth in this category considering the overall size of the mass market channel. We attribute our growth in the mass distribution channel to further penetration of the private label products we support. FOSSIL watch sales decreased approximately 6.8% in 2007, however, excluding sales to the off price channel during 2007 and 2006, FOSSIL watch sales were flat between 2007 and 2006. However, we have seen sequential quarterly improvement in wholesale shipments of FOSSIL watches during the year and the brand performed well within the department store environment during the difficult holiday period. We believe the repositioning of the brand over the last 18 months, including its unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint, is resonating well with consumers. We believe the performance of FOSSIL watches was negatively impacted during the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of production delays and disruptions caused by the launch of our new e commerce platform. Net sales in our other United States products category, that primarily include handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, jewelry and cold weather accessories, increased 2.7%. This increase included $3.6 million and $1.6 million from the launch of our FOSSIL accessories jewelry line and cold weather category, respectively, during the second half of 2007. Additionally, we experienced sales volume growth in FOSSIL handbags, RELIC leather goods and our sunglass business. These increases were partially offset by sales declines in our small leather goods and belt categories of 15.9% and 39.9%, respectively. We believe the decrease in our small leather goods and belt categories are attributable to reduced consumer interest in these categories during 2007. Our FOSSIL handbag business growth of 5.3% for the year was primarily related to a solid holiday performance resulting in a 13.5% increase during our fourth quarter. We began shipping new styles in the FOSSIL handbag line during the second half of 2007, including a revamped core leather group geared towards the brands new modern vintage styling and aspiration viewpoint. In addition, our handbag results were positively impacted by the launch of FIFTY FOUR FOSSIL handbags, a premium line priced from $250 to $450, that we launched during the third quarter to 50 Macys and Dillards doors. RELIC leather good sales increased 8.1% and was primarily attributable to sales volume growth in our handbag line with JCPenney and Kohls. Sales from our sunglass business rose 10.6% with solid results in both the FOSSIL and RELIC brand. 45 Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 15.6% during the year as a result of a 20.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 2.3%. Net sales from our e commerce businesses increased 1.5% which is principally attributable to the September launch of our first commercial website outside the U.S., in Germany, which generated sales of $1.0 million, partially offset by a 3.3% decrease in our U.S. based e commerce business. The 2.3% increase in comparable store sales was negatively impacted by a 3.4% comparable store sales decrease during the fourth quarter. Factors that we believe negatively impacted our fourth quarter retail store results and e commerce based business included production delays of several key advertised styles, disruptions caused by the launch of our new e commerce platform and a generally weak U.S. retail environment resulting in decreased mall foot traffic. We experienced comparable store sales increases of 5.2% in our 70 full price accessory concept stores during 2007. Since 2006, our new accessory stores reflect a redesign of our historical presentation to a more modern vintage image that focuses on a more aspirational lifestyle customer. Our retail strategy is to position our FOSSIL stores as the destination within the mall for customers to shop for accessories. At the end of 2007, we operated 244 stores, including 113 full price accessory stores, 55 of which are outside the U.S., 80 outlet locations, including 6 outside the U.S.; 33 apparel stores; and 18 multi brand stores. This compares to 198 stores at the end of fiscal 2006, which included 73 full price accessory stores, 31 located outside the U.S.; 78 outlet locations, including 4 outside the U.S.; 32 apparel stores; and 15 multi branded stores. We opened 53 new stores and closed 7 stores during the year. For 2008, our plans are to open 80 to 85 stores, concentrating on the full price accessory concept with equal distribution between U.S. and international locations. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by 21.9% to $742.0 million with gross profit margin expanding by 160 basis points to 51.8% compared to 50.2% in the prior year. The improvement in margin included an approximate 140 basis point benefit related to the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Additionally, gross profit margin was favorably impacted by an increased sales mix of higher margin international sales, an increase in the outlet store margins and positive results from our internal initiative to improve our gross profit margin. A reduction in the level of discontinued styles and excess inventory encountered in 2007 in comparison to 2006 allowed us to establish higher average prices in our outlet stores, leading to improved gross profit margins. Additionally, focus on improving our product costs and retail pricing on new styles began to positively impact our gross margin late in 2007. These favorable increases in gross profit margin were partially offset by increased levels of lower margin sales to distributors, a slight increase in wholesale markdowns and slightly higher duty costs. Our consolidated gross product margin is impacted by our diversified business model that includes but is not limited to: (i) a significant number of product categories we distribute, (ii) the multiple brands we offer within many of these categories, (iii) the geographical presence of our businesses, and (iv) the different distribution channels we sell to or through. The components of this diversified business model produce varying ranges of gross profit margin. Generally, on a historical basis, our fashion branded watch, jewelry and sunglass offerings produce higher gross profit margins than our leather goods categories. In addition, in most product categories that we offer, brands with higher retail price points generally produce higher gross profit margins compared to those of lower retail priced brands. From a segment standpoint, our direct to consumer business generally produces the highest gross profit margin as a result of these sales being direct to the ultimate consumer. Gross profit margins related to sales in our international wholesale segment are historically lower than our retail segment, but historically higher than our United States wholesale segment primarily due to the following factors: (i) overall retail prices for comparable product sold in the United States are generally higher in our international businesses as a result of less competitive fashion and designer brands being offered in these markets; (ii) the product sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our United States wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of watches; and (iii) the watch sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our United States wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of higher priced licensed brands. 46 Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses increased $70.0 million to $555.5 million and included $13.1 million of one time charges relating to our voluntary evaluation of our accounting for equity based compensation, including the appropriateness of accounting measurement dates used to determine the amounts of compensation charges and related tax effects which have been previously disclosed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2007 (the Grant Review). As a percent of sales, operating expenses decreased 120 basis points to 38.8% compared to 40.0% in 2006. Excluding the impact of expenses related to the Grant Review, the increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $16.1 million of expenses related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses as a result of a weakening U.S. dollar and increased payroll, rent and facilities expenses, primarily associated with our retail store growth. Payroll expense increases were further impacted by increased costs attributable to our incentive cash and equity compensation plans and increased back office headcount to support our retail store growth. To a lesser extent, operating expense increased as a result of new category launches and increases in certain variable expenses as a result of higher levels of sales. In 2008, although we expect to leverage the infrastructure associated with our wholesale business activities, as sales increase, we believe the leverage gains will be generally offset as a result of our anticipated retail store expansion initiative. Operating expense levels, as a percentage of sales, are substantially higher in our retail stores when compared to that of our wholesale activities. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. Amounts in millions 2007 2006 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 155.4 32 % $ 141.8 37 % Other international wholesale 64.3 28 % 52.8 31 % United States wholesale (1) 209.7 46 % 196.9 44 % Direct to consumer 126.1 49 % 94.1 43 % Total $ 555.5 39 % $ 485.6 40 % (1) Certain corporate costs not allocated to individual operating segments for management reporting purposes and intercompany eliminations for specific income statement items are reflected in the United States wholesale segment. Operating Income. Operating income increased 51.2% to $186.5 compared to $123.3 million in 2006. Operating income margin increased to 13.0% compared to 10.2% in 2006. The increase in our operating income margin was favorably impacted by increased gross profit margin, operating expense leverage and $29.0 million of net currency gains related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into U.S. dollars. Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased by approximately $2.7 million to $0.9 million compared to $3.6 million in 2006. This decrease is principally due to the payment of previously outstanding borrowings on our U.S. based revolving line of credit at the end of 2006. These borrowings were primarily used for common stock repurchases in late 2005 and early 2006 as well as capital expenditures. Other Income (Expense) Net. Other income (expense) net primarily reflects interest income from cash investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries and equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During 2007, other income (expense) net increased favorably by approximately $2.9 million as a result of increased interest income resulting from higher levels of invested cash balances and increases in equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture. These favorable increases were partially offset by foreign currency transaction losses and increased minority interest expense. Foreign currency transaction losses are primarily related to the settlement of inventory purchases through established forward contracts at rates below the prevailing spot rate at the time of settlement. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% during 2007 compared to 34.7% in the prior year. The lower effective tax rate in 2007 is primarily attributable to higher foreign income taxed at lower effective rates. 47 Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Analysis of Percentage Change in Net Sales Versus Prior Year Attributable to Changes in the Following Factors Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 2 % % 18 % 20 % Other international wholesale 9 12 21 United States wholesale 9 9 Direct to consumer 1 24 25 Total 1 % 1 % 14 % 16 % Fiscal 2006 is a 53 week year as compared to a 52 week year for fiscal 2005. We estimate this extra week increased net sales and operating expenses by approximately $16 million and $5 million respectively, as compared to fiscal year 2005. European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. European wholesale sales growth was primarily due to sales volume increases in FOSSIL jewelry and FOSSIL and licensed brand watches, as well as the contribution from our new ADIDAS watch licensed business that was launched in early 2006. FOSSIL jewelry sales grew by 25.3% as a result of continued market share growth in Germany and from expansion into other parts of Europe. Net sales increases in our FOSSIL watch brand of 3.6% are the result of renewed innovation and design in our product offerings. Licensed watch brand net sales increases of 21.3% are related to market share growth in certain European markets and new styles introduced across many of our licensed brands. We also believe our watch businesses in Europe benefited from overall improved economic conditions during 2006 in comparison to 2005. Net sales from the ADIDAS watch brand, a newly licensed watch business we launched during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, contributed approximately $14.7 million to European net sales during 2006. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions as noted in the above table. Other international wholesale sales include sales from our Asia Pacific and Canada subsidiaries, export sales from the United States and sales from our Mexico business that was acquired in early 2006. Net sales increases from this segment of our businesses were principally related to sales volume growth in our licensed brand watches. Licensed watches increased by 24.6% in this segment, principally related to renewed innovation and design in new styles introduced into this segment of our business during 2006 and further penetration of certain licensed brands into many of our Asian Pacific markets. United States Wholesale Net Sales. United States watch sales increased 2.8% in 2006 principally due to sales volume growth in mass market, licensed and RELIC brand watches. Our mass market watch business increased by $7.5 million, or 35.9%, and is primarily attributable to our successful partnership with Wal Mart that resulted in being recognized as Wal Marts Vendor of the Year for 2006 in the jewelry, watch and accessory division. Licensed brand watch sales increased by 24.8% in 2006 principally resulting from market share gains from our BURBERRY licensed brand and sales resulting from the launch of MARC BY MARC JACOBS and ADIDAS. Net sales from our FOSSIL watch brand declined by approximately 8.1% during 2006. Excluding the effect of discontinued product sales from both 2006 and 2005, the decline was approximately 10.1%. Although the FOSSIL brand net sales declined on a comparative full year basis, the brands performance strengthened consistently on a sequential quarter basis throughout 2006 and posted a 4.5% increase during the more seasonal fourth quarter of 2006. We believe this improved performance is related to renewed innovation and design in new styles introduced to the market during 2006. Consumers seemed to respond to the newness and differentiation in our watch styles and gravitated towards our higher price point styles resulting in average unit retail price increases of approximately 10% during the year. We also believe the introduction of our FOSSIL brand catalog in late 2005 and increased circulation in 2006, combined with continued investment in our web based marketing programs were instrumental in the overall improvement of the FOSSIL watch business during 2006. 48 Net sales from our other United States product businesses rose 13.7% during 2006 as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL womens handbags and small leather goods, RELIC belts and gift categories and RELIC sunglasses. Although we experienced strong double digit net sales gains in our womens leather goods categories during 2005 and were operating in fewer doors given the consolidation of Federated/May, our womens leather business recorded strong gains on a comparable door basis during 2006. Net sales from our womens handbag and small leather goods categories increased by 10.1% and 14.3%, respectively, during 2006. In 2006, we continued to drive higher average unit retails in our handbag business by introducing new fabrics and leather as well as unique treatments to our product assortment. Also fueling the increase in our FOSSIL leather goods category was the successful introduction of our mens bag business to the line. Net sales from RELIC belts and gift categories increased by 38.5% primarily due to the strength of our offerings in JCPenney and Kohls. Relic eyewear net sales increased by 67.9% during 2006 resulting from an expansion into new doors and additional displays. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 27.6% during 2006 as a result of a 19.8% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 7.4%. Net sales from our e commerce business increased 18.7% as a result of sales volume growth in FOSSIL leather goods and from the launch of newly developed non FOSSIL branded websites and the FOSSIL catalog. We operated 198 stores at the end of 2006 consisting of 120 full price stores, including 41 located outside the United States, and 78 outlet locations, including 4 stores outside the United States. This compares to 170 stores at the end of 2005 including 98 full price stores, 30 of which are located outside the United States and 72 outlet locations, including one store outside the United States. We opened 36 new stores and closed 8 stores during 2006. Gross Profit. Gross profit margin decreased 110 basis points in 2006 to 50.2% compared to 51.3% in 2005. This margin decline can be attributed primarily to a sales mix shift toward lower margin product sales in our international segment and the impact of increased discontinued product sales, through both non traditional channels and our outlet stores at lower than historical gross profit margins. To a lesser extent, gross profit margin further declined as a result of an increased sales mix in our United States segment of lower margin mass market watches and higher markdown levels, primarily in the United States accessories business, due to the transition of May Company stores to Federated. Additionally, gross profit margins were negatively impacted as a result of certain new styles added to our global watch assortment which generated lower gross profit margins than historical averages. Partially offsetting these gross profit margin decreases were increased sales, as a percentage of total sales, from our higher margin producing full price company owned retail stores. 49 Operating Expenses. Operating expenses increased approximately $59 million during 2006 and, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 40.0% of net sales compared to 40.9% for 2005. 2006 operating expenses increased approximately $3.4 million as a result of businesses acquired in 2006 and approximately $2.9 million due to foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the operating expenses of acquired businesses and the impact of foreign currencies, operating expense increases during 2006 primarily reflect increases in payroll related costs, rent and depreciation and amortization expense. Increased payroll costs were mainly related to additional headcount to support new initiatives, including the ADIDAS watch and DIESEL and MICHELE jewelry businesses launched in 2006, non cash compensation expense due to the implementation of FAS 123R and increased payroll expense in connection with our retail store growth. Payroll expense increases also included an approximate $3.5 million associated with the additional week in the first quarter of 2006. Rent expense increased 21.0% primarily due to the expansion of our retail stores. Depreciation and amortization expense increases are primarily related to leasehold improvements and in store fixturing associated with new retail store openings during 2005 and 2006, additional hardware and software additions and depreciation related to the SAP implementation in France finalized in May 2005. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. Amounts in millions 2006 2005 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 141.8 37 % $ 116.5 37 % Other international wholesale 52.8 31 % 43.3 30 % United States wholesale (1) 196.9 44 % 188.4 46 % Direct to consumer 94.1 43 % 78.0 45 % Total $ 485.6 40 % $ 426.2 41 % (1) Certain corporate costs not allocated to individual operating segments for management reporting purposes and intercompany eliminations for specific income statement items are reflected in the United States wholesale segment. Operating Income. The decline in our gross profit margin was partially offset by the leverage in our operating expenses resulting in our operating profit margin decreasing to 10.2% in 2006 compared to 10.4% in the prior year. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased by approximately $3.2 million in 2006 to $3.6 million compared to $321,000 in 2005. This increase is related to the impact of higher outstanding borrowings under our revolving lines of credit that were principally used to fund approximately $85 million of common stock repurchases occurring during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and capital expenditures of $50.8 million during 2006. Other Income (Expense) Net. During 2006, other income (expense) net decreased favorably by approximately $4.7 million principally due to $2 million of currency gains recorded in 2006 compared to $3.8 million of currency losses in 2005. This favorable increase was partially offset by a $1.2 million reduction in equity in the earnings of our joint venture in Spain. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate increased to 34.7% during 2006 compared to 26.5% in the prior year. The lower effective tax rate in 2005 was the result of our ability, pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, to reduce previously recorded deferred tax liabilities by repatriating foreign earnings at an effective tax rate substantially below the statutory rate at which these deferred tax liabilities were established. 50 Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. We believe that, to the extent inflation affects our costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our general business operations have not required substantial cash during the first quarter of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame as we increase inventory levels in advance of the holiday season. Our cash and cash equivalent balances as of the end of fiscal year 2007 increased to $255 million in comparison to $133 million at the end of the prior year. Of the $255 million of cash and cash equivalents at fiscal year end 2007, $108 million is held in banks outside the United States. The increase in our cash holdings is primarily the result of $132 million of net cash generated from operating activities and $30 million of cash flow generated from financing activities, partially offset by $53 million of cash used in investing activities. Cash flows generated from operating activities were primarily related to net income of $123 million, non cash items of approximately $24 million, $101 million of cash from increased current liabilities, partially offset by $20 million and $76 million of cash from increased inventory and accounts receivable balances, respectively. Cash flows used in investing activities were primarily related to fixed asset additions of $40 million. Cash generated from financing activities was primarily related to $47 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and related excess tax benefits of such exercises, partially offset by $16 million of common stock repurchases. Accounts receivable at the end of 2007 increased by 46.5% to $227 million compared to $155 million at the end of 2006. As a result, average days sales outstanding increased to 49 days from 45 days in the prior year, primarily due to higher levels of international sales that generally result in longer collection cycles than those experienced in the U.S. and a shift in wholesale sales occurring later in the fourth quarter during 2007 compared to 2006. The shift in wholesale sales was primarily related to production delays on certain watch styles that resulted in later deliveries for the holiday season. Fiscal 2007 ending inventory of $248 million represents a 8.9% increase compared to $228 million in the prior year despite an approximate additional $3.2 million of inventory related to 46 net retail stores opened since the end of the prior year. At the end of 2007, we had working capital of $546 million compared to working capital of $358 million at the end of the prior year. We had approximately $10 million and $11 million of outstanding short term borrowings at the end of 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to short term borrowings in the UK and Japan. In the second quarter of 2007, our UK subsidiary renewed its revolving credit facility with their primary bank allowing borrowings of up to 4 million Great British Pounds. Outstanding borrowings under the UK based facility were $5.9 million at the end of 2007 and bear interest at the aggregate of the margin, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and Mandatory Lending Agreement (MLA) costs, (7.11% on a combined basis at year end). Borrowings outstanding under this facility are due in May 2008. The remaining $3.7 million in borrowings are under a short term facility in Japan bearing interest at the Euroyen rate (approximately 1.65% at year end), due in May 2008. The facilities were primarily utilized for working capital needs associated with our UK and Japanese subsidiaries. At the end of 2007, we had no outstanding borrowings under our $100 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility which bears interest at our option of (i) the LIBOR base rate (4.52% at year end) plus 50 basis points, or (ii) the lesser of (a) the higher of Wells Fargos prime rate (7.25% at year end) less 1.0%, or 3.0%, or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law. We have typically renewed this short term credit facility in September each year. At the end of 2007, our wholly owned subsidiary, Fossil Group Europe, Gmbh (FGE), had outstanding long term borrowings, in the form of a term note, of $3.5 million. This note has a variable interest term with an interest rate at year end 2007 of 3.0% with interest payments due quarterly. This note requires minimum principal payments of 100,000 Swiss Francs each year with no stated maturity and no penalties for early termination. During 2008, we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $75 to $80 million to principally support new company owned retail store openings, costs associated with the implementation of an SAP point of sale system for our company owned retail stores and other general maintenance requirements. We believe that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our capital needs during 2008. We also have access to amounts available under our credit facilities should additional funds be required. 51 Contractual Obligations The following table presents, as of January 5, 2008, a summary of our significant cash contractual obligations by payment date. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 7 and Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Debt obligations (1) $ 13,147 $ 9,695 $ 181 $ 181 $ 3,090 Minimum royalty payments (2) 113,063 49,778 39,020 24,265 Capital lease obligations 2,046 327 669 679 371 Operating lease obligations 228,241 40,762 71,245 49,830 66,404 Purchase obligations (3) 49,698 49,302 342 54 Uncertain tax positions (4) 24,953 24,953 Total contractual cash obligations $ 431,148 $ 174,817 $ 111,457 $ 75,009 $ 69,865 (1) Consists of borrowings in the United Kingdom, Japan and Switzerland excluding contractual interest payments that are variable in nature. (2) Consists of primarily exclusive licenses to manufacture watches under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. (3) Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. (4) Management has only included its current FIN 48 liability in the table above. The long term amounts of $37.7 million have been excluded because the payment timing cannot be reasonably estimated. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Certain line items presented in the tables below, when aggregated, may not agree to the corresponding line items on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 due to rounding. 52 Fiscal Year 2007 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 304,825 $ 306,464 $ 358,582 $ 463,112 Gross profit 156,119 150,530 186,956 248,425 Operating expenses 123,564 127,414 138,502 166,065 Operating income 32,555 23,116 48,454 82,360 Income before income taxes 33,829 23,239 49,671 80,786 Provision for income taxes 8,797 8,567 19,218 27,683 Net income 25,032 14,672 30,453 53,103 Earnings per share: Basic 0.37 0.22 0.45 0.77 Diluted 0.36 0.21 0.43 0.75 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 51.2 % 49.1 % 52.1 % 53.6 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 40.5 % 41.6 % 38.6 % 35.9 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 10.7 % 7.5 % 13.5 % 17.8 % Fiscal Year 2006 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales. $ 264,225 $ 259,238 $ 299,697 $ 390,805 Gross profit 133,014 127,034 148,106 200,765 Operating expenses 116,022 110,838 115,153 143,581 Operating income 16,992 16,196 32,953 57,184 Income before income taxes 15,492 15,610 31,941 55,752 Provision for income taxes 5,776 4,372 10,400 20,665 Net income 9,716 11,238 21,541 35,087 Earnings per share: Basic 0.14 0.17 0.32 0.52 Diluted 0.14 0.16 0.31 0.51 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 50.3 % 49.0 % 49.4 % 51.4 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 43.9 % 42.8 % 38.4 % 36.7 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 6.4 % 6.2 % 11.0 % 14.6 % 53 While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the back to school and Christmas season, generated approximately 70% of our annual operating income for 2007. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter of the following year as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. We currently believe that our inventory levels at our major customers at the end of 2007 were near their targeted inventory levels. As we continue to grow in the direct to consumer segment, we believe we will continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a percent of sales, we believe operating expenses will be more significant in the first half of the year when due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores, personnel and infrastructure costs incurred in the back half of the prior year carry into the following year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro, British Pound and, to a lesser extent, the Swiss Franc, as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of practices to manage this market risk, including our operating and financing activities and, where deemed appropriate, the use of foreign currency forward contracts. The use of these instruments allows management to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in 2007 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At year end we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 78.0 million Euro for approximately $110.6 million, expiring through December 2008 and approximately 10.9 million British Pounds for $22.1 million, expiring through December 2008. If we were to settle our Euro and British Pound based contracts at fiscal year end 2007, the net result would be a net loss of approximately $2.8 million, net of taxes. Exclusive of these outstanding foreign exchange contracts or other operating or financing activities that may be employed by us, a measurement of the unfavorable impact of a 10 percent change in the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc as compared to the U.S. dollar would have on our operating profits and stockholders equity is presented in the following paragraph. At fiscal year end 2007, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc involving balance sheet transactional exposures would have reduced net pre tax income by $6.3 million. The translation of the balance sheets of our European, United Kingdom and Switzerland based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2007, a 10 percent unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $21.8 million. In the view of management, the risks associated with exchange rate changes in other currencies we have exposure to are not material and these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 54 
 
