Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The words "may", "believes", "expects", "plans", "intends", "anticipates" and similar expressions identify forward looking statements. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including those discussed below. Accordingly, readers of this Annual Report on Form 10 K should consider these factors in evaluating, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on, the forward looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 24 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences in a timely manner while preserving the authenticity and quality of our brands. Although we attempt to stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and fashion trends affecting accessories and apparel, any failure by us to identify and respond to such trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our existing brand names and product lines, which in turn could adversely affect sales of our products. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products. Our success also depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products, or if our competitors introduce superior products, customers may purchase increasing amounts of products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings and new products introduced by us may not achieve consumer acceptance comparable to that of our existing product lines. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products, or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brands. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to generate consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management and financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our sales and market share. The effects of economic cycles, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war and military action both in the United States and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to procure our products from manufacturers for sale to our customers. Any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on consumer purchases of our products. 25 Table of Contents Seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal cycles, the timing of new product introductions, the timing of orders by our customers and the mix of product sales demand. Our business is seasonal by nature. A significant portion of our net sales and operating income are generated during the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, which includes the "back to school" and Christmas seasons. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the fourth quarter depends upon the anticipated level of retail sales during the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In addition, the amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter depends in part upon the actual level of retail sales during the Christmas season. The seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income during the first and fourth quarter of our fiscal year. The deterioration in the global economic environment, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The global economic environment has deteriorated over the past several months. The declining values in real estate, reduced credit lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, increases in unemployment levels and recent significant declines and volatility in the global financial markets have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This has affected our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. In North America we are experiencing a significant slowdown in customer traffic and a highly promotional environment. These same conditions are now spreading to many international markets. If the global macroeconomic environment continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues and earnings across most of our segments for fiscal year 2009 and potentially continuing into fiscal year 2010. The current credit crisis could have a negative impact on our customers, suppliers and business partners, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The current credit crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. Although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our U.S. Credit Facility will provide us with sufficient liquidity for the foreseeable future, the impact of this crisis on our customers, business partners and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of our manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet delivery date requirements. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers, distributors or licensees to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write downs or the sale of excess inventory at prices below our standard levels. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. 26 Table of Contents The loss of any of our license agreements, pursuant to which a number of our products are produced, may result in the loss of significant revenues and may adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our growth in sales and net income is, and is expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of products produced under license agreements with third parties. Under these license agreements, we generally have the right to produce, market and distribute certain products utilizing the brand names of other companies. We sell products under certain licensed brands, including, but not limited to, ADIDAS, EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DIESEL, DKNY, MARC BY MARC JACOBS and MICHAEL Michael Kors. Sales of our licensed products amounted to 34.2% of our net sales for fiscal year 2008, with certain individual licensed brands accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. Our material license agreements have various expiration dates between 2009 and 2014. In addition, certain license agreements may require us to make minimum royalty payments, subject us to restrictive covenants or require us to comply with certain other obligations and may be terminated by the licensor if these or other conditions are not met or upon certain events. We may not be able to continue to meet our obligations or fulfill the conditions under these agreements in the future. In addition, we may be unable to renew our existing license agreements beyond the current term or obtain new license agreements to replace any lost license agreements on similar economic terms or at all. The failure by us to maintain or renew one or more of our existing material license agreements could result in a significant decrease in our sales and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Our license agreements may require minimum royalty commitments regardless of the level of product sales under these agreements. With respect to our license agreements, we have in the past experienced, and could again in the future experience, instances where minimum royalty commitments under these agreements exceeded royalties payable based upon our sales of such licensed products. We incurred royalty expense of approximately $74.9 million, $60.7 million and $44.1 million in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also have agreements in effect at the end of fiscal year 2008 which expire on various dates from December 2009 through December 2014 that require us to pay royalties ranging from 3% to 20% of defined net sales. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or ability to meet our customers demands. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs, especially in China, and weather conditions. In the future, we may not be able to pass on all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices to our customers. We rely on third party manufacturers and problems with, or loss of, our suppliers or raw materials could harm our business and results of operations. All of our apparel, footwear, sunglasses and leather goods and certain of our watch and jewelry products are produced by independent manufacturers. We do not have long term contracts with these manufacturers. In addition, we face the risk that these third party manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis, or at all. As a result, we cannot be certain that these manufacturers will continue to manufacture products for us or that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing 27 Table of Contents costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages for certain products and harm our business. Access to suppliers that are not Fossil subsidiaries is not guaranteed because we do not maintain long term contracts but instead rely on long standing business relationships, which may not continue in the future. The majority of our watch products are currently assembled to our specifications by our majority owned entities in Asia and Switzerland with the remainder assembled by unrelated entities. Certain of our other products are currently manufactured to our specifications by independent manufacturers in international locations, including, but not limited to, China and Hong Kong and to a lesser extent Italy, Korea, Mexico and Taiwan. We have no long term contracts with these independent manufacturing sources and compete with other companies for production facilities. All transactions between us and our independent manufacturing sources are conducted on the basis of purchase orders. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain close relationships with our current suppliers and to develop long term relationships with other suppliers that satisfy our requirements for price, quality and production flexibility. Our ability to establish new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery. Any failure by us to maintain long term relationships with our current suppliers or to develop relationships with other suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. If an independent manufacturer or license partner of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. We have no control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers, or by one of our license partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturers or license partners labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or other countries in which the violation or divergence occurred, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers or licensors be found in violation of state or international labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. We extend unsecured credit to our customers and are therefore vulnerable to any financial difficulties they may face. We sell our merchandise primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores in approximately 100 countries worldwide. We extend credit based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Should any of our larger customers experience financial difficulties, we could curtail business with such customers or assume more credit risk relating to such customers receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable relating to such customers could have a material adverse effect on the amount of sales revenue that we receive and our results of operations. We do not maintain long term contracts with our customers and are unable to control their purchasing decisions. We do not maintain long term purchasing contracts with our customers and therefore have no contractual leverage over their purchasing decisions. A decision by a major department store or other significant customer to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and operating strategy. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to continue our sales growth is dependent upon the implementation of our growth strategy, which we may not be able to achieve. During recent years, we have experienced substantial growth in net sales. Our ability to continue this growth is dependent on the successful implementation of our business strategy. This includes diversification of our product offerings, expansion of our company owned accessory locations and certain strategic acquisitions. If we are not successful in the expansion of our product offerings or our new products are not profitable or do not generate sales comparable to those of our existing businesses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Another element of our business strategy is to place increased emphasis on growth in selected international markets. If our brand names and products do not achieve a high degree of consumer acceptance in these markets, our net sales could be adversely affected. We also operate FOSSIL brand stores and other non FOSSIL branded stores and have historically expanded our company owned accessory and outlet locations to further strengthen our brand image. As of January 3, 2009, we operated 324 stores worldwide. The costs associated with leasehold improvements to current stores and the costs associated with opening new stores could materially increase our costs of operation. Our plan to significantly increase our store base may not be successful, and implementation of this plan may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. Each year, we have historically expanded our store base. During fiscal 2009, we intend to further expand our store base by between 40 and 50 stores. Thereafter, in the near term, we plan to continue to expand our store base annually. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to open new stores and renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our ability to open new stores on schedule or at all, to renew existing store leases on favorable terms or to operate them on a profitable basis will depend on various factors, including our ability to: identify suitable markets for new stores and available store locations; negotiate acceptable lease terms for new locations or renewal terms for existing locations; manage and expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth; hire and train qualified sales associates; develop new merchandise and manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; and avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build out of new stores. Our plans to expand our store base may not be successful and the implementation of these plans may not result in an increase in our net sales even though they increase our costs. Additionally, implementing our plans to expand our store base will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. The increased demands of operating additional stores could cause us to operate less effectively, which could cause the performance of our existing stores and our wholesale operations to suffer materially. Any of these outcomes of our attempted expansion of our store base could have a material adverse effect on the amount of net sales we generate and on our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our direct to consumer business segment operates in the highly competitive specialty retail, e commerce and catalog industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors are substantially greater than ours, which may allow them to compete more effectively. We face intense competition in the specialty retail, e commerce and catalog industry. We compete primarily with specialty retailers, department stores, catalog retailers and internet businesses that engage in the retail sale of watches, accessories and apparel. We believe that the principal basis upon which we compete is the quality and design of merchandise and the quality of customer service. We also believe that price is an important factor in our customers decision making processes. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and generate greater national brand recognition than we can. This intense competition and greater size and resources of some of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on the amount of net sales we generate and on our results of operations. We could be negatively impacted if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. As part of our growth strategy, we have made certain acquisitions, domestically and internationally, including acquisitions of FOSSIL stores previously operated under license agreements, acquisitions of certain watch brands, and acquisitions of independent distributors of our products. The integration of these and future acquisitions may not be successful or generate sales increases. When we have acquired businesses, we have acquired businesses that we believe could enhance our business opportunities and our growth prospects. All acquisitions involve risks that could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. These risks include: distraction of management from our business operations; loss of key personnel and other employees; costs, delays, and inefficiencies associated with integrating acquired operations and personnel; the impairment of acquired assets and goodwill; and acquiring the contingent and other liabilities of the businesses we acquire. In addition, acquired businesses may not provide us with increased business opportunities, or result in the growth that we anticipate. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations is a complex, time consuming, and expensive process. Combining acquired operations with us may result in lower overall operating margins, greater stock price volatility and quarterly earnings fluctuations. Cultural incompatibilities, career uncertainties and other factors associated with such acquisitions may also result in the loss of employees. Failure to acquire and successfully integrate complementary practices, or failure to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our competitors are established companies that may have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including design and distribution. There is intense competition in each of the businesses in which we compete. In all of our businesses, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors who may have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than us. Our competitors include distributors that import watches, accessories and apparel from abroad, United States companies that have established foreign manufacturing relationships and companies that produce accessories and apparel domestically. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely 30 Table of Contents affected by our competitors and their competitive pressures in the watch, fashion accessory and apparel industries. We have key facilities in the United States and overseas, the loss or shut down of any of which could harm our business. Our administrative and distribution operations in the United States are conducted primarily from five separate facilities located in the Dallas, Texas area. Our operations internationally are conducted from various administrative, distribution and assembly facilities outside of the United States, particularly in China, Germany, Hong Kong and Switzerland. The complete or temporary loss of use of all or part of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our warehouse and distribution facilities in Dallas and Richardson, Texas are operated in a special purpose sub zone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board. Although the sub zone allows us certain tax advantages, the sub zone is highly regulated by the U.S. Customs Service. This level of regulation may cause disruptions or delays in the distribution of our products out of these facilities. Under some circumstances, the U.S. Customs Service has the right to shut down the entire sub zone and, therefore, our entire warehouse and distribution facilities. During the time that the sub zone is shut down, we may be unable to adequately meet the supply requests of our customers and our company owned retail stores, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, relationships with our customers, and results of operations, especially if the shut down were to occur during our third or fourth quarter. Our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system could disrupt our computer system and divert management time. In 2003, we began implementing an enterprise resource planning system from SAP AG, a German software company. We implemented the new enterprise resource planning system in our U.S., Germany, France and Italy locations in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2008, respectively. Over the next few years, we intend to replace our existing enterprise resource planning systems and other principal financial systems in certain other subsidiaries located in Europe with software systems provided by SAP AG. We have implemented Navision as our standard system throughout most of our Far East distribution subsidiary operations. During 2007, we implemented this system in our principal Hong Kong office and China assembly facilities. Our current expansion plans may place significant strain on our management, working capital, financial and management control systems and staff. The failure to maintain or upgrade financial and management control systems, to recruit additional staff or to respond effectively to difficulties encountered during expansion could have a material adverse effect on our ability to respond to trends in our target markets, market our products and meet our customers requirements. The sustained disruption or failure of our systems due to force majeure or as part of an upgrade, conversion or other systems maintenance could result in the same adverse effects. Changes in the mix of product sales demand could negatively impact our gross profit margins. Our gross profit margins are impacted by our sales mix. Sales from our direct to consumer segment and international and licensed watch businesses generally provide gross margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margin, while accessory products generally provide gross profit margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margin. If future sales from our direct to consumer segment and international and licensed watch businesses do not increase at a faster rate than our United States accessory business, our gross profit margins may grow at a slower pace, cease to grow, or decrease relative to our historical consolidated gross profit margin. We have also recently begun distributing private label product to the mass market channel at gross profit margins significantly lower than our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Future growth in this channel at rates in 31 Table of Contents excess of our consolidated net sales growth rate could negatively impact our consolidated gross profit margins. Our industry is subject to pricing pressures that may adversely impact our financial performance. We assemble or source many of our products offshore because they generally cost less to make overseas, due, primarily to lower labor costs. Many of our competitors also source their product requirements offshore to achieve lower costs, possibly in locations with lower costs than our offshore operations, and those competitors may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry wide pricing pressures. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our production costs or our production costs increase and we cannot increase our prices. The loss of our intellectual property rights may harm our business. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We are devoted to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in those countries where we believe it is important to our ability to sell our products. However, we cannot be certain that the actions we have taken will result in enforceable rights, will be adequate to protect our products in every country where we may want to sell our products, will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to prevent sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Additionally, we rely on the patent, trademark and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. Even if we are successful in obtaining appropriate trademark, patent and other intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Because we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in Hong Kong and China, we are significantly dependent on foreign countries to protect our intellectual property rights. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. Further, if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome, costly and we may not prevail. The failure to obtain or maintain trademark, patent or other intellectual property rights could materially harm our business. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. 32  Table of Contents An increase in product returns could negatively impact our operating results. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns occur. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs and affect how our stock trades. This could in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. Factors Relating to Our International Operations Factors affecting international commerce and our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from outside of the United States, and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations could account for an increasingly larger portion of our net sales in the future. Our international operations are directly related to, and dependent on, the volume of international trade and foreign market conditions. International 33 Table of Contents commerce and our international operations are subject to many risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below, including: recessions in foreign economies; the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions; limitations on repatriation of earnings; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries; longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing foreign operations; social, political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; our ability to finance foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; and U.S. government licensing requirements for exports. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected regions and decrease the profitability of our international operations, which may seriously harm our financial condition. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in certain international markets. Our products are sold in certain international markets through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in, and a resulting loss of, sales and profits. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source a significant amount of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the currencies, including the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, Danish Krone, Euro, Hong Kong dollar, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Korean Won, Malaysian Ringgit, Mexican Peso, Norwegian Kroner, Singapore Dollar, Swedish Krona, Swiss Franc and Taiwanese Dollar. Due to our dependence on manufacturing operations in China, changes in the value of the Chinese Yuan may have a material impact on our supply channels and manufacturing costs, including component and assembly costs. Changes in the currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Although we utilize forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risks (mostly relating to the Euro and the British Pound), if we are unsuccessful in mitigating these risks, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations. Because we are dependent on foreign manufacturing we are vulnerable to changes in economic and social conditions in Asia and disruptions in international travel and shipping. Because a substantial portion of our watches and certain of our handbags, sunglasses and other products are assembled or manufactured in Hong Kong and China, our success will depend to a significant extent upon future economic and social conditions existing in Hong Kong and China. If the 34 Table of Contents factories in Hong Kong and China were disrupted for any reason, we would need to arrange for the manufacture and shipment of products by alternative sources. Because the establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery, we are unable to predict whether such new relationships would be on terms that we regard as satisfactory. Any significant disruption in our relationships with our manufacturing sources located in Hong Kong and China would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. Restrictions on travel to and from these and other regions, similar to those imposed during the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome in 2003, commonly known as SARS, and any delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products on account of SARS or other syndromes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer deadlines and timely distribute our products in order to match consumer tastes. Risks associated with foreign government regulations and U.S. trade policy may affect our foreign operations and sourcing. Our businesses are subject to risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulation in the countries in which our manufacturing sources are located, primarily Hong Kong and China. While we have not experienced any material issues with foreign governmental regulations that would impact our arrangements with our foreign manufacturing sources, we believe that this issue is of particular concern with regard to China due to the less mature nature of the Chinese market economy and the historical involvement of the Chinese government in industry. If regulation were to render the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impracticable, or if our current foreign manufacturing sources were for any other reason to cease doing business with us, such a development could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and on our supply, manufacturing and distribution channels. Our business is also subject to the risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other charges or restrictions on imports, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. and foreign customs quotas, duties (including antidumping or countervailing duties), tariffs, taxes or other charges or restrictions, requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future or adversely modified, or what effect such actions would have on our costs of operations. For example, our products imported to the United States are subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of our business we may from time to time be subject to claims by the U.S. Customs Service for duties and other charges. Factors that may influence the modification or imposition of these restrictions include the determination by the U.S. Trade Representative that a country has denied adequate intellectual property rights or fair and equitable market access to U.S. firms that rely on intellectual property, trade disputes between the United States and a country that leads to withdrawal of "most favored nation" status for that country and economic and political changes within a country that are viewed unfavorably by the U.S. government. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to: quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the countries where our apparel producing facilities are located and foreign countries; and customs duties imposed by the governments where our apparel producing facilities are located on imported products, including raw materials. 35 Table of Contents Our apparel business is also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization, referred to as the WTO. Generally, such trade agreements benefit our apparel business by reducing or eliminating the duties and or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country. However, trade agreements can also impose requirements that negatively impact our apparel business, such as limiting the countries from which we can purchase raw materials and setting quotas on products that may be imported into the United States from a particular country. In addition, the WTO may commence a new round of trade negotiations that liberalize textile trade. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Many factors may cause our net sales, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate and possibly decline which may result in declines in our stock price. Our net sales, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors may include, but may not be limited to, the following: fluctuations in market demand for our products; increased competition and pricing pressures; our ability to anticipate changing customer demands and preferences; our failure to efficiently manage our inventory levels; our inability to manage and maintain our debt obligations; seasonality in our business; changes in our, and our competitors, business strategy or pricing; the successful expansion of our owned retail stores; the timing of certain general and administrative expenses; completing acquisitions and the costs of integrating acquired operations; international currency fluctuations, operating challenges and trade regulations; acts of terrorism or acts of war; and government regulation. One or more of the foregoing factors, as well as any other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, may cause our operating expenses to be unexpectedly high or result in a decrease in our net sales during any given period. If these or any other variables or unknowns were to cause a shortfall in revenues or earnings, an increase in our operating costs or otherwise cause a failure to meet public market expectations, our stock price may decline and our business could be adversely affected. Two principal stockholders own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis, our CEO, and Mr. Tom Kartsotis, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, each own a substantial amount of our common stock. As a result, they are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of elections of our directors, the adoption, amendment or repeal of our bylaws 36 Table of Contents and any other actions requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders, and to otherwise influence our affairs. Because the interests of Messrs. Kartsotis may not coincide with the interests of other shareholders, Messrs. Kartsotis may influence the Company to enter into transactions or agreements that other shareholders would not approve or make decisions with which other shareholders may disagree. Our organizational documents contain anti takeover provisions that could discourage a proposal for a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a proposal for a takeover. These include a provision in our certificate of incorporation authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year; provisions in our bylaws establishing advance notice procedures with respect to certain stockholder proposals; and a provision stating that directors may be removed by the stockholders only for cause. Our bylaws may be amended by a vote of 80% of the Board of Directors, subject to repeal by a vote of 80% of the stockholders. In addition, Delaware law limits the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in certain business combinations with interested stockholders. Finally, Messrs. Kartsotis have the ability, by virtue of their stock ownership, to significantly influence a vote regarding a change in control. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis each own a substantial amount of our common stock. The shares beneficially owned by Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis may be sold in the open market in the future, subject to any volume restrictions and other limitations under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 144 thereunder. We may also decide to file a registration statement enabling Messrs. Kartsotis to sell additional shares. Any sales by Messrs. Kartsotis of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of their shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales could occur. These sales or the possibility that they may occur also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds in any equity offering in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 37 Table of Contents  Item 2. Properties Company Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2008, we owned or leased the following material facilities in connection with our United States and international operations: Location Use Square Footage Owned / Leased Dallas, Texas Office, warehouse and distribution 517,500 Owned Eggst&auml;tt, Germany Office, warehouse and distribution 230,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Corporate headquarters 190,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Warehouse and distribution 138,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Office 131,541 Owned Basel, Switzerland European headquarters 36,113 Owned Milton Keynes, United Kingdom Office, warehouse and distribution 20,155 Owned/Leased Garland, Texas Warehouse 400,000 Lease expiring in 2014 China Manufacturing 110,231 Lease expiring in 2013 Hong Kong Office, warehouse and distribution 52,953 Lease expiring in 2010 New York, New York General office and showroom 26,552 Lease expiring in 2016 We also lease certain other manufacturing and or office, warehouse and or distribution facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Los Angeles, California; Miami, Florida; Switzerland; Sweden; Taiwan; Hong Kong; Malaysia; Mexico; Singapore; New Zealand; Australia; Japan; Canada; the Netherlands; China; Korea; India; Italy; Denmark; Norway; Austria and France. U.S. based Apparel Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2008, we had 33 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of our apparel line and certain of our accessory products. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2018. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. U.S. based Accessory Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2008, we had 95 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the United States for the sale of our full assortment of accessory products and our WatchStation stores, which include leases for 3 new stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2009. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2009 to 2020. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. U.S. based Outlet Store Facilities. We lease retail space at selected outlet centers throughout the United States for the sale of our products. As of the end of fiscal year 2008, we had 74 such leases. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2009 to 2019 and provide for minimum annual rentals and for the payment of additional rent based on a percentage of sales above specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs at each outlet center, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. International Store Facilities. At the end of fiscal year 2008, we had 143 lease agreements for retail stores located outside the U.S., including leases for 18 stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2009. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2009 to 2022. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales 38 Table of Contents exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. We believe that our existing facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition, and are adequate for our needs.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings Three shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, naming us as a nominal defendant and naming all of our then current directors and certain of our current and former officers and directors as defendants. The first suit, captioned City of Pontiac Policemans and Firemans Retirement System, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Tom Kartsotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Michael L. Kovar, Michael W. Barnes, Mark D. Quick, Randy S. Kercho, Jal S. Shroff, Randy S. Hyne, Thomas R. Tunnel, Richard H. Gundy, Kenneth W. Anderson, Andrea Camerana, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, Donald J. Stone and Cadence Wang (Cause No. 3 06CV1672 P), was filed on September 13, 2006. The second suit, captioned Robert B. Minich, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Tom Karstotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Michael L. Kovar, Michael W. Barnes, Mark D. Quick, Randy S. Kercho, Jal S. Shroff, Randy S. Hyne, Thomas R. Tunnel, Richard H. Gundy, Kenneth W. Anderson, Andrea Camerana, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, Donald J. Stone and Cadence Wang (Cause No. 3 06CV1977 M), was filed on October 26, 2006. The third suit, captioned Robert Neel, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Michael W. Barnes, Richard H. Gundy, Randy S. Kercho, Mark D. Quick, Tom Kartsotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Jal S. Shroff, T. R. Tunnell, Michael L. Kovar, Donald J. Stone, Kenneth W. Anderson, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, and Fossil, Inc. (Cause No. 3 06CV2264 G), was filed on December 8, 2006. The complaints allege purported violations of federal securities laws and state law claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, constructive fraud, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and gross mismanagement in connection with certain stock option grants made by us. Plaintiffs seek (i) monetary damages for all losses and damages suffered as a result of the acts alleged in the complaint; (ii) for defendants to account for all damages caused by them and all profits and special benefits obtained as a result of the alleged unlawful conduct; (iii) actions to reform and improve Company corporate governance and internal control procedures; (iv) the ordering of the imposition of a constructive trust over the defendants stock options and proceeds derived therefrom; and (v) punitive damages. The ultimate liability with respect to these claims cannot be determined at this time; however, we do not expect these matters to have a material impact on our financial position, operations or liquidity. There are no other legal proceedings to which we are a party or to which our properties are subject, other than routine litigation incident to our business, which is not material to our consolidated financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders No matter was submitted to a vote of our stockholders during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. 39  Table of Contents  PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities General. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "FOSL." The following table sets forth the range of quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the fiscal years ended January 3, 2009 and January 5, 2008. High Low Fiscal year ended January 3, 2009: First quarter $ 38.24 $ 28.18 Second quarter 37.98 27.42 Third quarter 32.96 22.26 Fourth quarter 25.98 11.51 Fiscal year ended January 5, 2008: First quarter $ 28.94 $ 20.98 Second quarter 31.97 26.52 Third quarter 39.34 24.81 Fourth quarter 46.25 33.28 As of February 23, 2009, there were 148 holders of record, although we believe that the number of beneficial owners is much higher. Cash Dividend Policy. We did not pay any cash dividends in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. We expect that we will retain all available earnings generated by our operations for the development and growth of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to a cash dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and future prospects and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. 40 Table of Contents Common Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph compares the cumulative return of the common stock over the preceding five year periods with that of the Broad Market (CRSP Total Return Index of the NASDAQ Global Select Market (US)) and the NASDAQ Retail Trades Group. Each Index assumes $100 invested at December 31, 2003 and is calculated assuming quarterly reinvestment of dividends and quarterly weighting by market capitalization. 2008 COMPARATIVE TOTAL RETURNS Fossil, Inc., NASDAQ Global Select Market and NASDAQ Market Retail Trades Group (Performance Results through 12/31/08) 12/31/03 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 Fossil, Inc. 100.00 136.75 114.72 120.43 223.89 89.07 NASDAQ Global Select Market 100.00 108.84 111.16 122.11 132.42 63.80 NASDAQ Retail Trades 100.00 126.84 128.04 139.83 127.23 88.82 41  Table of Contents Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES(1) Period Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased Average Price Paid per Share (or Unit) Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 5, 2008 through November 1, 2008 359,800 $ 19.50 359,800 245,400 shares November 2, 2008 through November 29, 2008 245,400 $ 16.17 245,400 0 shares Total 605,200 $ 18.15 605,200 0 shares (1)On June 11, 2008, we announced a repurchase plan (the "Plan"), which was effective on June 11, 2008, to purchase up to 2,000,000 shares of our common stock in the open market in accordance with Rules 10b5 1 and 10b 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Plan terminated on November 18, 2008, upon the purchase of an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares of our common stock. 42 Table of Contents  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Fiscal Year 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 1,583,242 $ 1,432,984 $ 1,213,965 $ 1,043,120 $ 957,309 Gross profit 851,151 742,031 608,919 535,140 502,610 Operating income 205,770 186,485 123,325 108,988 130,744 Income before taxes 189,429 187,526 118,795 102,948 136,208 Net income 138,097 (1) 123,261 (2) 77,582 75,670 (3) 89,545 (4) Earnings per share:(5) Basic 2.05 (1) 1.81 (2) 1.15 1.07 (3) 1.27 (4) Diluted 2.02 (1) 1.75 (2) 1.13 1.04 (3) 1.23 (4) Weighted average common shares and common equivalent shares outstanding:(5) Basic 67,525 68,213 67,177 70,476 70,367 Diluted 68,323 70,333 68,817 72,424 72,998 Working capital $ 556,497 $ 546,410 $ 357,608 $ 326,502 $ 369,864 Total assets 1,087,296 1,122,628 852,597 745,142 783,423 Total long term liabilities 74,964 66,432 22,914 35,628 43,539 Stockholders equity 802,144 771,662 602,201 526,317 524,426 Return on average stockholders equity 17.8 % 18.3 % 14.2 % 14.0 % 19.2 % (1)Includes $7.3 million in expenses, net of tax, related to the write down of certain other than temporary investment, fixed asset and intangible asset impairments and a $20.8 million benefit in income tax expense related to the reduction of certain current and long term tax liabilities in connection with completion of prior year income tax audits. (2)Includes $8.6 million in expenses, net of tax, related to our voluntary evaluation of our accounting for equity based compensation, including the appropriateness of accounting measurement dates used to determine the amounts of compensation charges and related tax effects which have been previously disclosed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (3)Includes a tax benefit of $12 million related to the repatriation of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. (4)Includes net of tax charges related to cumulative rent expense adjustments and settlement of a supplier claim of $2.0 million and $550,000, respectively. (5)All share and per share price data have been adjusted to reflect a three for two stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend paid on April 8, 2004. 43 Table of Contents  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. Our principal offerings include an extensive line of mens and womens fashion watches and jewelry, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, cold weather accessories, footwear and apparel. In the watch and jewelry product category, we have a diverse portfolio of globally recognized owned and licensed brand names under which our products are marketed. Our products are distributed globally through various distribution channels including wholesale, export and direct to the consumer at varying price points to service the needs of our customers, whether they are value conscious or luxury oriented. Based on our extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points, we are able to target style conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis. Domestically, we sell our products through a diversified distribution network that includes department stores, specialty retail locations, specialty watch and jewelry stores, owned retail and factory outlet stores, mass market stores and through our FOSSIL&reg; catalog and website. Our wholesale customer base includes, among others, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Macys, Dillards, JCPenney, Kohls, Sears, Wal Mart and Target. We also sell our products in the United States through a network of company owned stores that included 125 retail stores located in premier retail sites and 74 outlet stores located in major outlet malls as of January 3, 2009. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of our FOSSIL brand products through our catalog and on our website, www.fossil.com, as well as proprietary and licensed watch and jewelry brands through other managed and affiliated websites. Internationally, our products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores and specialty watch and jewelry stores in over 100 countries worldwide through 23 company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of 59 independent distributors. Our products are distributed in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Central and South America, Canada, the Caribbean, Mexico, and the Middle East. Our products are offered on airlines, cruise ships and in international company owned retail stores, which included 104 accessory retail stores, 13 multi brand stores and 8 outlet stores in select international markets as of January 3, 2009. Our products are also sold through independently owned and franchised FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks in certain international markets. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of our FOSSIL brand products on our websites in Australia, www.fossilaustralia.com.au, Germany, www.fossil.de, the United Kingdom, www.fossil.co.uk, and Singapore, www.fossilsingapore.com.sg. Our business is subject to global economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. The global economic environment has deteriorated over the past several months. The declining values in real estate, reduced credit lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, increases in unemployment levels and recent significant declines and volatility in the global financial markets have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This has affected our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. In North America we are experiencing a significant slowdown in customer traffic and a highly promotional environment. These same conditions are now spreading to many international markets. If the global macroeconomic environment continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues and earnings across most of our segments for fiscal year 2009 and potentially continuing into fiscal year 2010. Future sales and earnings growth is also contingent upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner while continuing to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, 44 Table of Contents we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. The majority of our products are sold at price points ranging from $50 to $500. Although the current economic environment is expected to negatively impact consumer discretionary spending and, ultimately, our net sales, we believe that the price/value relationship of our products will allow us to maintain our market share in those markets in which we compete. Additionally, we are focusing on our opening price points across all brands and categories as we believe consumers of discretionary accessory goods are looking for even more value for their dollars and looking to spend less money than in the past. Historically, during recessionary periods, the strength of our balance sheet, our strong operating cash flow and the relative size of our business with our wholesale customers, in comparison to our competitors, have allowed us to weather such recessionary periods for longer periods of time and generally results in market share gains to us. Our international operations are subject to many risks, including foreign currency. Generally, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against currencies of other countries in which we operate will reduce the translated amounts of sales and operating expenses of our subsidiaries, which results in a reduction of our consolidated operating income. We anticipate the current strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the currencies of international markets in which we operate will significantly impact our reported sales growth and earnings for fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, particularly during our first three fiscal quarters of 2009. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes attached thereto. Effective October 5, 2008, we have made changes to the presentation of reportable segments to reflect changes in the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of our operations, develops strategy, and allocates capital resources. These changes include the reclassification of certain "back office" expenses previously recorded within our U.S. Wholesale and Europe Wholesale segments, primarily associated with indirect cost related to our corporate offices in Richardson, Texas and our European headquarters facility in Basel, Switzerland, to a separate Corporate segment. Additionally, we have reclassified operating income of certain segments, related to the gross profit derived from intercompany sales from one segment to another, to other segments to reflect the consolidated profit within the segment that ultimately sells the product to an unrelated third party. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debt, inventories, long lived asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and trade names and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns 45 Table of Contents have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns occur. Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by a review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We reserve for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, increased inventory reserves may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than trade names whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our company owned full price retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. We recorded impairment losses of $1.9 million and $170,000 in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. Impairment of Goodwill and Trade names. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its recorded value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the recorded value of the reporting unit, no impairment loss is recognized. We evaluate trade names annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to its recorded value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, we performed the required annual impairment tests and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. We recorded impairment losses of $7.9 million in fiscal 2008 related to our MICHELE and ZODIAC trade names. No trade name impairment losses were recorded in 2007. Income Taxes. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding significant or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in 46 Table of Contents the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate excluding the impact of infrequent or unusual items. We utilize a two step process for the recognition and measurement of the amount of benefit to be recorded in the financial statements for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This process requires that we first determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax position taken will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, on the basis of the technical merits of the position. We measure the amount of recognizable tax benefit for each tax position meeting the recognition threshold as the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. New Accounting Standards In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("SFAS 162"). SFAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"). SFAS 162 is effective 60 days following the SECs approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 162 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets ("FSP 142 3"). FSP 142 3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ("SFAS 142"). The intent of FSP 142 3 is to improve the consistency between the deemed useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under FASB Statement No. 141R and other GAAP. FSP 142 3 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. We do not expect the adoption of FSP 142 3 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of SFAS No. 133, ("SFAS 161"). SFAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities aimed at improving the transparency of financial reporting. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 161 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations ("SFAS 141(R)"). SFAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how the acquiror in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date. SFAS 141(R) significantly changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs and restructuring costs. In addition, under SFAS 141(R), changes in an acquired entitys deferred tax assets 47 Table of Contents and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. The provisions of this standard will apply to any acquisitions we complete on or after December 15, 2008. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statement, an amendment of "ARB" No. 51 ("SFAS 160"). SFAS 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method significantly changes the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders. The provisions of the standard will be effective for us beginning in fiscal year 2009. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting SFAS 160, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 ("SFAS 159"). SFAS 159 introduces the fair value option, which permits entities to choose to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value at specified election dates. The entity will report unrealized gains and losses on the items on which it has elected the fair value option in earnings. SFAS 159 was effective beginning in fiscal year 2008. The adoption of SFAS 159 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. Under SFAS 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. SFAS 157 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007; however, the effective date of SFAS 157 was delayed by the FASB for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The delayed provisions of this standard will be effective for us in fiscal year 2009. We do not expect the adoption of the delayed provisions of SFAS 157 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the fiscal years indicated: Fiscal Year 2008 Percentage change from 2007 2007 Percentage change from 2006 2006 Net sales 100.0 % 10.5 % 100.0 % 18.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 46.2 6.0 48.2 14.2 49.8 Gross profit 53.8 14.7 51.8 21.9 50.2 Operating expenses 40.8 16.2 38.8 14.4 40.0 Operating income 13.0 10.3 13.0 51.2 10.2 Interest expense 0.0 * 0.0 * 0.3 Other (expense) income net (1.0 ) * 0.1 * (0.1 ) Income before income taxes 12.0 1.0 13.1 57.9 9.8 Income taxes 3.2 (20.1 ) 4.5 55.9 3.4 Net income 8.8 % 12.0 % 8.6 % 58.9 % 6.4 % *not meaningful 48  Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated net sales by segment, and components of certain segments, and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment, and components of certain segments, for the fiscal years indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 International wholesale: Europe $ 530.0 $ 483.9 $ 378.7 33.5 % 33.8 % 31.2 % Other 271.2 233.2 171.8 17.1 16.2 14.1 Total international wholesale 801.2 717.1 550.5 50.6 50.0 45.3 United States wholesale: Watch products 265.4 251.4 239.0 16.8 17.6 19.7 Other products 207.3 209.2 203.7 13.1 14.6 16.8 Total United States wholesale 472.7 460.6 442.7 29.9 32.2 36.5 Direct to consumer 309.3 255.3 220.8 19.5 17.8 18.2 Total net sales $ 1,583.2 $ 1,433.0 $ 1,214.0 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis:  Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Exchange Rates Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 2.7 % 6.8 % 9.5 % Other international wholesale 2.3 14.0 16.3 United States wholesale 2.6 2.6 Direct to consumer (1.1 ) 22.3 21.2 Total 1.1 % 9.4 % 10.5 % European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Shipments from our European wholesale segment expanded in fiscal year 2008 as a result of sales volume growth in licensed brand watches, FOSSIL jewelry and watches, and to a lesser extent, leather goods and licensed brand jewelry. We experienced growth across most of our major licensed brand watch businesses with EMPORIO ARMANI, MICHAEL KORS and DIESEL, increasing 5.5%, 101.4% and 11.0% in fiscal year 2008, respectively. These sales increases were partially offset by a sales volume decline in DKNY&reg; watches of 8.6% that we attribute to a moderating consumer response to core styles within the assortment. We have recently made adjustments within the DNKY product assortment and expect the line to contribute to future sales growth in this segment. We believe the overall growth in our other licensed watch brands represents the results of our continuous efforts to provide innovative styling that differentiates us from our competitors as well as the increased consumer awareness and acceptance of these recognizable global fashion brands over more regional or local brands that we compete against. Whereas EMPORIO ARMANI and DIESEL watches have been distributed in our European wholesale segment for some time, the growth in our MICHAEL KORS watch business is primarily related to the introduction of this brand in 2007 and continued door growth throughout 2008. FOSSIL jewelry, watch and leather sales rose 12.9%, 5.5% and 27.1% in fiscal year 2008, respectively. We believe this growth is the result of consumers positive response to our repositioning of the brand towards a unique 49 Table of Contents modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint as well as increased brand awareness generated by the accelerated growth in our European retail store base. The bulk of our leather business has historically been distributed through the U.S. department store channel. However, we have been able to expand the presence of this business in Europe through some of our wholesale partners based upon the visibility and success of this product category within our own retail stores. Licensed brand jewelry sales rose primarily as a result of the introduction of DKNY jewelry that commenced in the third quarter of 2008. DKNY jewelry contributed $4.6 million to sales during fiscal year 2008 but was partially offset by a planned decrease of 25.7% in ARMANI jewelry as we were updating the line to stainless steel. Overall, we foresee the jewelry category as one of our strongest growth opportunities globally. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Other international wholesale sales include sales from our Asia Pacific, Mexico and Canada subsidiaries and export sales from the United States. The increase in wholesale shipments from our other international segment in fiscal year 2008 was the result of sales volume growth from our licensed brand and FOSSIL watches as well as increased penetration of our jewelry businesses. Increased licensed brand watch net sales were primarily attributable to EMPORIO ARMANI, DIESEL and MICHAEL KORS increasing 20.8%, 17.3% and 131.0% in fiscal year 2008, respectively, partially offset by a 10.1% decrease in DKNY. The decrease in our DKNY watch business was for similar reasons as explained above for our European wholesale segment. As the penetration levels of most of our businesses distributed in this region are much lower than those levels experienced in our U.S. and European wholesale markets, our growth in the other international segment is primarily related to market share expansion in existing doors and growth in new doors as well as the recent expansion of our businesses into China, India and Korea. In the Asia Pacific region, our concession model allows us to essentially operate the space within our customers stores, thereby permitting us to control merchandising, inventory levels, build out and branding decisions, and more importantly, the interaction with the end consumer. We believe the productivity of this model has allowed us to gain market share in our customers stores in comparison to our competitors. Additionally, introduction of new businesses including MICHAEL KORS watches and OYZTERBAY&reg;, a regionally recognized jewelry brand in India acquired in the first half of the year, and DKNY jewelry contributed a combined $8.3 million in net sales during fiscal year 2008. Our European and other international wholesale net sales grew to represent 62.3% of our global wholesale activities in fiscal year 2008 and represent our largest opportunity for continued wholesale expansion on a constant dollar basis. We believe our diverse global distribution network, including owned distribution in 23 countries, combined with our design and marketing capabilities, will allow us to continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands as we continue to increase brand awareness through the growth of our retail stores and introduction of new websites in many of the countries in which we operate. We also believe that the recent expansion of our businesses into new markets will add to our growth in our international wholesale business segments. United States Wholesale Net Sales. During fiscal year 2008, the increase in wholesale watch shipments in the United States was the result of sales volume growth in licensed brand and MICHELE watches, partially offset by a sales volume decrease in FOSSIL watches. Licensed brand watch sales included a 108.4% increase from MICHAEL KORS and a 33.9% increase from EMPORIO ARMANI. We attribute the increases for both of these businesses to further penetration of the lines in the department store channel and new doors being added for MICHAEL KORS. These increases were partially offset by DKNY watches, which experienced a 25.3% net sales volume decline. MICHELE watch sales volume rose 20.8% during fiscal year 2008, primarily as a result of a significant reduction in the level of returns experienced during the year as compared to the prior fiscal year. The increased level of returns in fiscal 2007 was primarily driven by an accommodation made to ship more newness and by the manner in which product was shipped. Watch heads and straps were shipped assembled together as a complete watch rather than being shipped separately. As a result, end of season fashion 50 Table of Contents watches had to be returned to change the straps to current fashion colors. The FOSSIL watch business represents the highest penetration level of our fashion watch brands within the moderate department store environment. As a result, its growth is mostly predicated on the overall performance of the moderate department store channel. We believe the 6.1% net sales decline in FOSSIL watches to be representative of the deteriorating economic conditions in the United States throughout 2008, which has resulted in lower traffic levels in department stores and an overall decline in department store sales during the year. Wholesale shipments from our other products category in the United States, which primarily includes handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, jewelry and cold weather accessories, decreased 0.9% during fiscal year 2008. This decrease is attributable to sales volume declines in FOSSIL mens and womens leather categories of 24.7% and 2.9%, respectively, and a decrease in RELIC eyewear net sales of 26.5%. These declines were mostly offset by a 28.4% increase in RELIC womens handbags and a 138.6% increase in FOSSIL accessory jewelry that was introduced in the fourth quarter of 2007. The sales volume decreases in our FOSSIL mens and womens leather categories are indicative of a weak, highly promotional retail environment that resulted in increased levels of markdown contributions within the United States moderate department store channel, and negatively impacted our sales. Similar to our FOSSIL watch business, our leather goods products are primarily distributed through the moderate department store channel. Sales volume decreases in RELIC eyewear were principally related to a reduction in market share due to a contraction in the number of displays within one of our major customers in 2008 as compared to 2007. However, our RELIC handbag line has continued to be a top performer within its distribution channel. We believe this business benefited from its relative value proposition and consumers selectively shopping for lower priced goods as the economy softened throughout the year. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Net sales from our direct to consumer segment increased 22.3% during fiscal year 2008 principally the result of a 28.5% increase in the average number of stores open during the year and comparable store sales increases of 2.3%. Additionally contributing to our growth in the direct to consumer segment were our e commerce businesses, that grew 22.9% during fiscal year 2008. This growth is attributable to increased sales from our German website that was launched during the second half of 2007, and to a lesser extent, a 6.5% increase in our United States based e commerce business. Comparable store sales related to our full price accessory concept, which is our growth engine in this segment, increased by 2.1% globally while our global outlet stores experienced comparable store sales growth of 5.8% during fiscal year 2008. We ended fiscal year 2008 with 324 stores, including 191 full price accessory stores, 104 of which are located outside the United States, 82 outlet locations, including 8 outside the United States, 33 apparel stores and 18 multi brand stores. This compares to 244 stores at the end of fiscal 2007, which included 113 full price accessory stores, 55 located outside the United States, 80 outlet locations, including 6 outside the United States, 33 apparel stores and 18 multi branded stores. During fiscal year 2008, we opened 84 new stores, including 79 full price accessory stores, and closed 4 stores. During fiscal 2009, we plan to open 40 to 50 stores, concentrating on our full price accessory concept. We expect 90% of these new store openings to be outside of the United States. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by 14.7% to $851.2 million in fiscal year 2008 with gross profit margin expanding by 200 basis points to 53.8% compared to 51.8% in the prior fiscal year. The 51 Table of Contents gross profit margin improvement was principally the result of an increase in the sales mix of our higher margin direct to consumer and international wholesale segments and an approximate 40 basis point improvement relating to the average weaker United States dollar compared to fiscal year 2007. Gross profit margin also improved as a result of our internal initiative, begun in late 2007, to lower our product cost on newly developed styles. Based upon the current prevailing rate of the United States dollar against currencies in other countries in which we operate, we expect our gross profit margin to be negatively impacted during the first nine months of fiscal year 2009 in comparison to the comparable prior year period. We anticipate the decline in gross profit margin relative to currency to be partially offset by an increase in sales mix from our direct to consumer segment that generates gross profit margins significantly higher than our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Our consolidated gross profit margin is impacted by our diversified business model that includes but is not limited to: (i) a significant number of product categories we distribute, (ii) the multiple brands we offer within many of these categories, (iii) the geographical presence of our businesses, and (iv) the different distribution channels we sell to or through. The components of this diversified business model produce varying ranges of gross profit margin. Generally, on an historical basis, our fashion branded watch, jewelry and sunglass offerings produce higher gross profit margins than our leather goods categories. In addition, in most product categories that we offer, brands with higher retail price points generally produce higher gross profit margins compared to those of lower retail priced brands. From a segment standpoint, our direct to consumer business generally produces the highest gross profit margin as a result of these sales being direct to the ultimate consumer. Gross profit margins related to sales in our international wholesale segment are historically lower than our direct to consumer segment, but historically higher than our United States wholesale segment primarily due to the following factors: (i) overall retail prices for comparable product sold in the United States are generally higher in our international businesses as a result of less competitive fashion and designer brands being offered in these markets; (ii) the product sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our United States wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of watches and jewelry that generally produce higher gross profit margins than leather goods; and (iii) the watch sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our United States wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of higher priced licensed brands. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses of $645.4 million represent an increase of $89.8 million in comparison to the prior year and as a percentage of sales increased to 40.8% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to 38.8% in the prior fiscal year. Fiscal year 2008 operating expenses included approximately $7.3 million related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses due to an average weaker U.S. dollar on a comparable year over year basis and approximately $10.6 million of non cash charges related to the write down of certain other than temporary investment, fixed asset, and intangible asset impairments. Fiscal year 2007 operating expenses included approximately $13.1 million related to our completed equity grant review. See Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Operating Expenses. Additionally, the increase in operating expenses in fiscal year 2008 included an approximately $51 million increase in our direct to consumer segment an approximately $36 million increase in operating expenses related to our wholesale businesses. The increase in our direct to consumer operating expenses primarily relates to the impact of the direct operating costs associated with a net 80 new stores opened during fiscal year 2008, the expansion of our back office infrastructure to support a significantly higher number of stores opened globally and expenses associated with the expansion of our e commerce and catalog operations. Operating expenses as a percentage of sales, excluding the impact of asset impairment charges and currency in fiscal year 2008 and expenses associated with our completed equity grant review in fiscal year 2007, increased 220 basis points compared to fiscal year 2007. Approximately $5 million, or 35 basis points, of this increase is due to the higher mix of direct to consumer expenses which partially offset the benefit of a higher gross margin resulting from increasing direct to consumer sales. An additional $29.0 million in expenses, or 185 basis points, is related to our expenses growing at a slightly higher rate than sales primarily due to lower forth quarter sales than 52 Table of Contents originally projected and the expansion of our retail back office infrastructure during fiscal year 2008. For fiscal year 2009, we expect our operating expenses as a percentage of sales to increase due to new retail door growth anticipated for 2009 and the full year operating expense impact of the net 80 stores opened during fiscal year 2008. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and as a percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. Amounts in millions 2008 2007 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 170.5 32 % $ 144.2 30 % Other international wholesale 75.8 28 64.4 28 United States wholesale 144.4 31 141.7 31 Direct to consumer 183.4 59 131.6 52 Corporate 71.3 73.6 Total $ 645.4 41 % $ 555.5 39 % Operating Income. Operating income increased 10.3% to $205.8 million in fiscal year 2008 to $186.5 million in fiscal year 2007. Operating income margin remained unchanged at 13.0% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to the prior year as increased gross profit margin was offset by an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales. Operating income included approximately $6.7 million of net currency gains in fiscal year 2008 related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into United States dollars. Other (Expense) Income Net. Other (expense) income net primarily reflects interest income from investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries and equity in the earnings or losses of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During fiscal year 2008, other (expense) income net increased unfavorably by approximately $17.7 million as compared to fiscal year 2007, primarily driven by increased foreign currency transaction losses partially offset by forward contract gains. As the U.S. dollar strengthened during the second half of fiscal year 2008, we recognized currency losses related to foreign currency payable balances denominated in U.S. dollars. Although we hedge a portion of our U.S. dollar denominated payables, primarily for those subsidiaries with related exposure to the Euro or British Pound, we have not historically entered into forward contracts for our other, generally smaller international subsidiaries, due to the unpredictable nature of such subsidiaries cash flows. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 27.1% during fiscal year 2008 compared to 34.3% in fiscal year 2007. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2008 is primarily attributable to the recognition of previously unrecognized income tax benefits in connection with the completion of prior year income tax audits. Additionally, when excluding the recognition of previously unrecognized income tax benefits in connection with completed prior year audits, our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2008 would have been 1,100 basis points higher. 53 Table of Contents Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in net sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 10.9 % % 16.9 % 27.8 % Other international wholesale 2.3 0.6 32.8 35.7 United States wholesale 4.0 4.0 Direct to consumer 1.7 13.9 15.6 Total 4.0 % 0.1 % 13.9 % 18.0 % Fiscal year 2007 was a 52 week year as compared to a 53 week year for fiscal 2006. We estimate the extra week increased net sales and operating expenses by approximately $16.0 million and $5.0 million, respectively, during fiscal year 2006. European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes which are in the above table. European wholesale sales growth in fiscal year 2007 was led by a 22.9% increase in licensed brand watches as a result of sales volume growth from our EMPORIO ARMANI, DKNY, DIESEL and MICHAEL KORS lines, partially offset by a decrease in sales volume growth from our ADIDAS line. The decrease in ADIDAS sales volume in fiscal year 2007 was due to the anniversarying of the launch of the line in 2006. Consistent growth of these licensed brands, many of which have been distributed in the European market for eight to ten years, exemplified our ability to continually provide innovative styling and build consumer awareness and acceptance of these recognizable fashion brands. Our FOSSIL watch and jewelry businesses also experienced significant growth in fiscal year 2007, increasing approximately 16.9% and 17.0%, respectively. We believe the performance of our FOSSIL watch business in Europe is the result of the consumers positive response to the repositioning of the brand, including its unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint. The FOSSIL jewelry performance in fiscal year 2007 was primarily related to the sales volume growth of the line within Germany, where it was initially launched in 2001, and the continued roll out of the line to other European countries. We further believe the FOSSIL brand performance in the wholesale channel was attributable to the growth in our retail store base during fiscal year 2007 which furthered the awareness of the brand throughout the marketplace. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions which are in the above table. Our other international segment grew rapidly as we expanded into new markets and increased penetration of our brands in existing markets. Sales volume increases from licensed brands and FOSSIL watches in addition to our recent expansion of our owned presence in China were the primary drivers of growth in fiscal year 2007. Sales of licensed watches increased 35.3% in fiscal year 2007 and were principally driven by our ARMANI, DKNY, DIESEL and BURBERRY brands. We also experienced significant growth in our FOSSIL watch line and our jewelry business, which grew 30.2% and 41.0%, respectively. Our concession concept in the Asia Pacific region continues to build awareness for our brands and allowed us to gain market share within the department store environment. United States Wholesale Net Sales. United States wholesale watch sales increased 5.2% in fiscal year 2007 primarily due to sales volume growth from licensed brand watches and to a lesser extent RELIC and mass market watches, partially offset by decreases in FOSSIL brand watch sales. Licensed watch sales increased by 28.9% in fiscal year 2007 and were primarily attributable to the continued roll out of MICHAEL KORS and MARC BY MARC to additional department store doors and increased penetration of BURBERRY and DIESEL watches. The merger of Federated Department 54 Table of Contents Stores and May Company resulted in additional shelf space for our licensed brands, primarily due to Macys expanding the presence of these brands beyond levels experienced in the former May Company stores. RELIC brand watch sales increased 14.0% in fiscal year 2007 and we believe this growth was attributable to new styles introduced during 2007 that are gaining market share at both JCPenney and Kohls. In fiscal year 2007, we experienced an 8% gain in wholesale shipments of private label products to the mass distribution channel. We attribute our growth in the mass distribution channel to further penetration of the private label products we support. FOSSIL watch sales decreased approximately 6.8% in fiscal year 2007. However, excluding sales to the off price channel during fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2006, FOSSIL watch sales were flat. However, we experienced a sequential quarterly improvement in wholesale shipments of FOSSIL watches during fiscal year 2007 and the brand performed well within the department store environment during the difficult holiday period. We believe the repositioning of the brand during fiscal years 2006 and 2007, including its unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint, resonated well with consumers. We believe the performance of FOSSIL watches was negatively impacted during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 as a result of production delays and disruptions caused by the launch of our new e commerce platform. Net sales in our other United States products category increased 2.7% in fiscal year 2007. This increase included $3.6 million and $1.6 million from the launch of our FOSSIL accessories jewelry line and cold weather category, respectively, during the second half of fiscal year 2007. Additionally, we experienced sales volume growth in FOSSIL handbags, RELIC leather goods and our sunglasses business in fiscal year 2007. These increases were partially offset by sales declines in our small leather goods and belt categories of 15.9% and 39.9%, respectively. We believe the decrease in our small leather goods and belt categories are attributable to reduced consumer interest in these categories. Our FOSSIL handbag business growth of 5.3% in fiscal year 2007 was primarily related to a solid holiday performance resulting in a 13.5% increase during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. We began shipping new styles in the FOSSIL handbag line during the second half of fiscal year 2007, including a revamped core leather group geared towards the brands new modern vintage styling and aspiration viewpoint. In addition, our handbag results were positively impacted by the introduction of FIFTY FOUR FOSSIL handbags, a premium line priced from $250 to $450, that we launched during the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 to 50 Macys and Dillards doors. RELIC leather good sales increased 8.1% and were primarily attributable to sales volume growth in our handbag line with JCPenney and Kohls. Sales from our sunglasses business rose 10.6% in fiscal year 2007 with solid results in both the FOSSIL and RELIC brands. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 15.6% during fiscal year 2007 as a result of a 20.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 2.3%. Net sales from our e commerce businesses increased 1.5% in fiscal year 2007 which is principally attributable to the September 2007 launch of our first commercial website outside the U.S., in Germany, which generated sales of $1.0 million, partially offset by a 3.3% decrease in our U.S. based e commerce business. The 2.3% increase in comparable store sales was negatively impacted by a 3.4% comparable store sales decrease during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. Factors that we believe negatively impacted our fourth quarter 2007 retail store results and e commerce based business included production delays of several key advertised styles, disruptions caused by the launch of our new e commerce platform and a generally weak U.S. retail environment resulting in decreased mall foot traffic. We experienced comparable store sales increases of 5.2% in our 70 full price accessory concept stores during fiscal year 2007. Since 2006, our new accessory stores reflect a redesign of our historical presentation to a more modern vintage image that focuses on a more aspirational lifestyle customer. At the end of fiscal year 2007, we operated 244 stores, including 113 full price accessory stores, 55 of which were outside the U.S., 80 outlet locations, including 6 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores, and 18 multi brand stores. This compares to 198 stores at the end of fiscal 2006, which included 73 full 55 Table of Contents price accessory stores, 31 located outside the U.S., 78 outlet locations, including 4 outside the U.S., 32 apparel stores, and 15 multi branded stores. We opened 53 new stores and closed 7 stores during the fiscal year 2007. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by 21.9% to $742.0 million in fiscal year 2007 with gross profit margin expanding by 160 basis points to 51.8% compared to 50.2% in fiscal year 2006. The improvement in margin included an approximate 140 basis point benefit related to the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Additionally, gross profit margin was favorably impacted by an increased sales mix of higher margin international sales, an increase in outlet store margins and positive results from our internal initiative to improve our gross profit margin. A reduction in the level of discontinued styles and excess inventory encountered in fiscal year 2007 in comparison to fiscal year 2006 allowed us to establish higher average prices in our outlet stores, leading to improved gross profit margins. Additionally, focus on improving our product costs and retail pricing on new styles began to positively impact our gross margin late in fiscal year 2007. These favorable increases in gross profit margin were partially offset by increased levels of lower margin sales to distributors, a slight increase in wholesale markdowns and slightly higher duty costs. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses increased $70.0 million to $555.5 million in fiscal year 2007 and included $13.1 million of one time charges relating to our voluntary evaluation of our accounting for equity based compensation, including the appropriateness of accounting measurement dates used to determine the amounts of compensation charges and related tax effects which have been previously disclosed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2007 (the "Grant Review"). As a percent of sales, operating expenses decreased 120 basis points to 38.8% in fiscal year 2007 compared to 40.0% in fiscal year 2006. Excluding the impact of expenses related to the Grant Review, the increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $16.1 million of expenses related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses as a result of a weakening U.S. dollar and increased payroll, rent and facilities expenses, primarily associated with our retail store growth. Payroll expense increases were further impacted by increased costs attributable to our incentive cash and equity compensation plans and increased back office headcount to support our retail store growth. To a lesser extent, operating expenses increased in fiscal year 2007 as a result of new category launches and increases in certain variable expenses as a result of higher levels of sales. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated: Amounts in millions 2007 2006 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 144.2 30 % $ 133.5 35 % Other international wholesale 64.4 28 52.8 31 United States wholesale 141.7 31 141.7 32 Direct to consumer 131.6 52 94.2 43 Corporate 73.6 63.4 Total $ 555.5 39 % $ 485.6 40 % Operating Income. Operating income increased 51.2% to $186.5 million in fiscal year 2007 compared to $123.3 million in fiscal year 2006. Operating income margin increased to 13.0% in fiscal year 2007 compared to 10.2% in fiscal year 2006. The increase in our operating income margin was favorably impacted by increased gross profit margin, operating expense leverage and $29.0 million of net currency gains related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into U.S. dollars. 56 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased by approximately $2.7 million to $0.9 million in fiscal year 2007 compared to $3.6 million in fiscal year 2006. This decrease is principally due to the payment of previously outstanding borrowings on our U.S. based revolving line of credit at the end of fiscal year 2006. These borrowings were primarily used for common stock repurchases in late 2005 and early 2006 as well as capital expenditures. Other (Expense) Income Net. Other (expense) income net increased favorably by approximately $2.9 million in fiscal year 2007 as a result of increased interest income resulting from higher levels of invested cash balances and increases in equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture. These favorable increases were partially offset by foreign currency transaction losses and increased minority interest expense. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% during fiscal year 2007 compared to 34.7% in fiscal year 2006. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2007 was primarily attributable to higher foreign income taxed at lower effective rates. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. We believe that, to the extent inflation affects our costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our general business operations have not required substantial cash during the first quarter of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame as we increase inventory levels in advance of the holiday season. Our quarterly cash requirements are also impacted by the number of new stores we open. Our cash and cash equivalent balances as of the end of fiscal year 2008 decreased to $172 million in comparison to $255 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. Of the $172 million of cash and cash equivalents at fiscal year end 2008, $124 million was held in banks outside the United States. The decrease in our cash holdings is primarily the result of $113 million of cash used in financing activities and $82 million of cash used in investing activities, partially offset by $109 million of net cash generated from operating activities. Cash flows used in financing activities were primarily related to $106 million of common stock repurchases while cash used in investing activities was primarily related to fixed asset additions of $64 million. Cash flows generated from operating activities were principally driven by net income of $138 million, non cash items of approximately $65 million, $18 million of cash from decreased accounts receivable balances, partially offset by $66 million of cash from decreased current liabilities and $46 million related to increased inventory balances. Accounts receivable at the end of fiscal year 2008 decreased by 9.5% to $206 million compared to $227 million at the end of fiscal year 2007, primarily due to a reduction in wholesale shipments during December 2008 versus December 2007 and a higher mix of direct to consumer segment sales. Average days sales outstanding for our wholesale segments increased to 60 days in fiscal year 2008 from 57 days in the prior fiscal year primarily due to higher levels of international sales that generally result in longer collection cycles than those experienced in the U.S. Fiscal year 2008 ending inventory of $292 million represented a 17.5% increase compared to $248 million in the prior year. The increase in inventory was primarily due to lower fourth quarter sales than previously projected and an increase of $11.2 million in raw materials, work in process and in transit inventories representing accelerated purchases and delivery of product as a result of the Chinese New Year occurring two weeks earlier in 2008 than 2007. Additionally, inventory increased by approximately $5.8 million due to the net increase of 80 retail stores opened since the end of fiscal year 2007. 57  Table of Contents At the end of fiscal year 2008, we had working capital of $556 million compared to $546 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. We had approximately $5 million and $10 million of outstanding short term borrowings at the end of fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2007, respectively, primarily related to local working capital lines of credit in Japan and the United Kingdom. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, our revolving credit facility for our UK subsidiary expired and was not renewed. At the end of fiscal year 2008 our outstanding borrowings in Japan were approximately $4.9 million. These borrowings are under two short term credit facilities allowing for borrowings up to 450 million yen (approximately $4.9 million U.S. dollars based upon the fiscal year end 2008 yen exchange rate to the U.S. dollar), bearing interest at the Euroyen rate and Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate (approximately 1.68% and 1.09%, respectively at fiscal 2008 year end). Borrowings under these Japanese facilities are due in May 2009. At the end of fiscal year 2008, we had no outstanding borrowings under our $140 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility ("U.S. Credit Facility") with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ("Wells Fargo") which bears interest at our option of (i) the LIBOR base rate (0.43% at fiscal 2008 year end) plus 50 basis points, or (ii) the lesser of (a) the higher of Wells Fargos prime rate (3.25% at fiscal 2008 year end) plus 1.5%, (b) 3.0%, or (c) the maximum rate allowed by law. This facility has an expiration date in November 2009. At the end of fiscal year 2008, our wholly owned subsidiary, Fossil Group Europe, Gmbh, had outstanding long term borrowings in the form of a term note of $3.5 million. This note has a variable interest term with an interest rate of 3.25% at year end fiscal 2008 with interest payments due quarterly. This note requires minimum principal payments of 100,000 Swiss Francs each year with no stated maturity and no penalties for early termination. During fiscal year 2009, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $35 to $45 million principally to support new company owned retail store openings, costs associated with the implementation of a SAP point of sale system for our company owned retail stores and other general maintenance capital requirements. We believe that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand and, if necessary, amounts available under our U.S. Credit Facility will be sufficient to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Debt obligations(1) $ 8,510 $ 4,989 $ 185 $ 185 $ 3,151 Minimum royalty payments(2) 212,850 53,087 88,726 68,980 2,057 Capital lease obligations 1,591 315 606 594 76 Operating lease obligations 377,616 57,999 105,733 82,602 131,282 Purchase obligations(3) 53,539 53,539 Uncertain tax positions(4) 900 900 Total contractual cash obligations $ 655,006 $ 170,829 $ 195,250 $ 152,361 $ 136,566 (1)Consists of borrowings in Japan and Switzerland excluding contractual interest payments that are variable in nature. (2)Consists of primarily exclusive licenses to manufacture watches and jewelry under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. 58 Table of Contents (3)Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. (4)Management has only included its current FIN 48 liability in the table above. The long term amounts of $38.8 million have been excluded because the payment timing cannot be reasonably estimated. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Certain line items presented in the tables below, when aggregated, may not agree to the corresponding line items on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 due to rounding. Fiscal Year 2008 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 356,184 $ 353,191 $ 409,760 $ 464,106 Gross profit 194,251 190,339 224,177 242,384 Operating expenses 145,136 155,378 160,439 184,427 Operating income 49,115 34,961 63,738 57,957 Income before income taxes 47,457 32,000 59,624 50,347 Provision for income taxes 17,240 6,863 23,153 4,075 Net income 30,217 25,137 36,471 46,272 Earnings per share: Basic 0.44 0.37 0.54 0.70 Diluted 0.43 0.36 0.54 0.69 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 54.5 % 53.9 % 54.7 % 52.2 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 40.7 % 44.0 % 39.2 % 39.7 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 13.8 % 9.9 % 15.6 % 12.5 % 59 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2007 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 304,825 $ 306,464 $ 358,582 $ 463,112 Gross profit 156,119 150,530 186,956 248,425 Operating expenses 123,564 127,414 138,502 166,065 Operating income 32,555 23,116 48,454 82,360 Income before income taxes 33,829 23,239 49,671 80,786 Provision for income taxes 8,797 8,567 19,218 27,683 Net income 25,032 14,672 30,453 53,103 Earnings per share: Basic 0.37 0.22 0.45 0.77 Diluted 0.36 0.21 0.43 0.75 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 51.2 % 49.1 % 52.1 % 53.6 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 40.5 % 41.6 % 38.6 % 35.9 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 10.7 % 7.5 % 13.5 % 17.8 % During the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008, we experienced double digit percentage increases in net sales and net income in comparison to the corresponding prior fiscal year quarters. However, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, economic conditions deteriorated around the world and the U.S. dollar strengthened against other currencies of countries in which we operate. These two factors resulted in our comparable fourth quarter 2008 net sales growth slowing dramatically in comparison to the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008 and our reported net income decreased by 12.9% in comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. We expect that these deteriorating economic conditions will persist throughout 2009 and continue to negatively impact our ability to grow our sales and earnings at the pace we experienced prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. Additionally, for the first three quarters of 2009, at the current prevailing foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies of countries in which we operate, we expect our reported net sales, operating income and net income will be negatively impacted in comparison to the corresponding prior period results. While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the "back to school" and Christmas season, have historically generated a significant portion of our annual operating income. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter of the following year as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. We currently believe that our inventory levels at our major customers at the end of fiscal year 2008 were near their targeted inventory levels, however, we believe the current economic environment will negatively impact the level of orders we receive from many of our customers around the world in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Additionally, as we continue to grow in the direct to consumer segment, we believe we will continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a percent of sales, we believe operating expenses will be more significant in the first half of the year when due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores opened during the prior year carry into the following year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of 60 Table of Contents operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro, British Pound, Swiss Franc and, to a lesser extent, the Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, Mexican Peso, Malaysian Ringitt and Singapore Dollar, as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of operating practices to manage these market risks relative to foreign currency exchange rate changes and, where deemed appropriate, utilize foreign currency forward contracts. These operating practices include, among others, our ability to convert foreign currency into U.S. dollars at spot rates and to maintain U.S. dollar pricing relative to sales of our products to certain distributors located outside the U.S. The use of foreign currency forward contracts allows us to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in 2008 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At January 3, 2009, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 85.2 million Euro for approximately $119.2 million, expiring through June 2010, approximately 1.3 billion Japanese Yen for $14.3 million, expiring through December 2009, approximately 5.5 million British Pounds for $10.7 million, expiring through April 2009 and approximately 3.0 million Australian Dollars for $2.7 million, expiring February 2009. If we were to settle our Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound and Australian Dollar based contracts at fiscal year end 2008, the net result would be a net gain of approximately $1.0 million, net of taxes. Exclusive of these outstanding foreign exchange contracts or other operating or financing activities that may be employed by us, a measurement of the unfavorable impact of a 10 percent change in the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc as compared to the U.S. dollar on our operating profits and stockholders equity is presented in the following paragraph. At fiscal year end 2008, a 10% unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc involving balance sheet transactional exposures would have reduced net pre tax income by $8.4 million. The translation of the balance sheets of our European, United Kingdom and Switzerland based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2008, a 10% unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $23.0 million. In the view of management, the risks associated with exchange rate changes in other currencies we have exposure to are not material and these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 61  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. Our principal offerings include an extensive line of mens and womens fashion watches and jewelry, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, cold weather accessories, footwear and apparel. In the watch and jewelry product category, we have a diverse portfolio of globally recognized owned and licensed brand names under which our products are marketed. Our products are distributed globally through various distribution channels including wholesale, export and direct to the consumer at varying price points to service the needs of our customers, whether they are value conscious or luxury oriented. Based on our extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points, we are able to target style conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis. Domestically, we sell our products through a diversified distribution network that includes department stores, specialty retail locations, specialty watch and jewelry stores, owned retail and factory outlet stores, mass market stores and through our FOSSIL&reg; catalog and website. Our wholesale customer base includes, among others, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Macys, Dillards, JCPenney, Kohls, Sears, Wal Mart and Target. We also sell our products in the United States through a network of company owned stores that included 125 retail stores located in premier retail sites and 74 outlet stores located in major outlet malls as of January 3, 2009. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of our FOSSIL brand products through our catalog and on our website, www.fossil.com, as well as proprietary and licensed watch and jewelry brands through other managed and affiliated websites. Internationally, our products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores and specialty watch and jewelry stores in over 100 countries worldwide through 23 company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of 59 independent distributors. Our products are distributed in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Central and South America, Canada, the Caribbean, Mexico, and the Middle East. Our products are offered on airlines, cruise ships and in international company owned retail stores, which included 104 accessory retail stores, 13 multi brand stores and 8 outlet stores in select international markets as of January 3, 2009. Our products are also sold through independently owned and franchised FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks in certain international markets. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of our FOSSIL brand products on our websites in Australia, www.fossilaustralia.com.au, Germany, www.fossil.de, the United Kingdom, www.fossil.co.uk, and Singapore, www.fossilsingapore.com.sg. Our business is subject to global economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. The global economic environment has deteriorated over the past several months. The declining values in real estate, reduced credit lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, increases in unemployment levels and recent significant declines and volatility in the global financial markets have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This has affected our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. In North America we are experiencing a significant slowdown in customer traffic and a highly promotional environment. These same conditions are now spreading to many international markets. If the global macroeconomic environment continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues and earnings across most of our segments for fiscal year 2009 and potentially continuing into fiscal year 2010. Future sales and earnings growth is also contingent upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner while continuing to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, 44 Table of Contents we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. The majority of our products are sold at price points ranging from $50 to $500. Although the current economic environment is expected to negatively impact consumer discretionary spending and, ultimately, our net sales, we believe that the price/value relationship of our products will allow us to maintain our market share in those markets in which we compete. Additionally, we are focusing on our opening price points across all brands and categories as we believe consumers of discretionary accessory goods are looking for even more value for their dollars and looking to spend less money than in the past. Historically, during recessionary periods, the strength of our balance sheet, our strong operating cash flow and the relative size of our business with our wholesale customers, in comparison to our competitors, have allowed us to weather such recessionary periods for longer periods of time and generally results in market share gains to us. Our international operations are subject to many risks, including foreign currency. Generally, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against currencies of other countries in which we operate will reduce the translated amounts of sales and operating expenses of our subsidiaries, which results in a reduction of our consolidated operating income. We anticipate the current strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the currencies of international markets in which we operate will significantly impact our reported sales growth and earnings for fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, particularly during our first three fiscal quarters of 2009. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes attached thereto. Effective October 5, 2008, we have made changes to the presentation of reportable segments to reflect changes in the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of our operations, develops strategy, and allocates capital resources. These changes include the reclassification of certain "back office" expenses previously recorded within our U.S. Wholesale and Europe Wholesale segments, primarily associated with indirect cost related to our corporate offices in Richardson, Texas and our European headquarters facility in Basel, Switzerland, to a separate Corporate segment. Additionally, we have reclassified operating income of certain segments, related to the gross profit derived from intercompany sales from one segment to another, to other segments to reflect the consolidated profit within the segment that ultimately sells the product to an unrelated third party. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, bad debt, inventories, long lived asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and trade names and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns 45 Table of Contents have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns occur. Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by a review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We reserve for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, increased inventory reserves may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than trade names whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our company owned full price retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. We recorded impairment losses of $1.9 million and $170,000 in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. Impairment of Goodwill and Trade names. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its recorded value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeds the recorded value of the reporting unit, no impairment loss is recognized. We evaluate trade names annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to its recorded value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, we performed the required annual impairment tests and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. We recorded impairment losses of $7.9 million in fiscal 2008 related to our MICHELE and ZODIAC trade names. No trade name impairment losses were recorded in 2007. Income Taxes. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding significant or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in 46 Table of Contents the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate excluding the impact of infrequent or unusual items. We utilize a two step process for the recognition and measurement of the amount of benefit to be recorded in the financial statements for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This process requires that we first determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax position taken will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, on the basis of the technical merits of the position. We measure the amount of recognizable tax benefit for each tax position meeting the recognition threshold as the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. New Accounting Standards In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("SFAS 162"). SFAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"). SFAS 162 is effective 60 days following the SECs approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 162 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets ("FSP 142 3"). FSP 142 3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ("SFAS 142"). The intent of FSP 142 3 is to improve the consistency between the deemed useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under FASB Statement No. 141R and other GAAP. FSP 142 3 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. We do not expect the adoption of FSP 142 3 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of SFAS No. 133, ("SFAS 161"). SFAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities aimed at improving the transparency of financial reporting. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 161 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations ("SFAS 141(R)"). SFAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how the acquiror in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date. SFAS 141(R) significantly changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs and restructuring costs. In addition, under SFAS 141(R), changes in an acquired entitys deferred tax assets 47 Table of Contents and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. The provisions of this standard will apply to any acquisitions we complete on or after December 15, 2008. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statement, an amendment of "ARB" No. 51 ("SFAS 160"). SFAS 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method significantly changes the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders. The provisions of the standard will be effective for us beginning in fiscal year 2009. We are currently evaluating the effect of adopting SFAS 160, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 ("SFAS 159"). SFAS 159 introduces the fair value option, which permits entities to choose to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value at specified election dates. The entity will report unrealized gains and losses on the items on which it has elected the fair value option in earnings. SFAS 159 was effective beginning in fiscal year 2008. The adoption of SFAS 159 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. Under SFAS 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. SFAS 157 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007; however, the effective date of SFAS 157 was delayed by the FASB for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The delayed provisions of this standard will be effective for us in fiscal year 2009. We do not expect the adoption of the delayed provisions of SFAS 157 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the fiscal years indicated: Fiscal Year 2008 Percentage change from 2007 2007 Percentage change from 2006 2006 Net sales 100.0 % 10.5 % 100.0 % 18.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 46.2 6.0 48.2 14.2 49.8 Gross profit 53.8 14.7 51.8 21.9 50.2 Operating expenses 40.8 16.2 38.8 14.4 40.0 Operating income 13.0 10.3 13.0 51.2 10.2 Interest expense 0.0 * 0.0 * 0.3 Other (expense) income net (1.0 ) * 0.1 * (0.1 ) Income before income taxes 12.0 1.0 13.1 57.9 9.8 Income taxes 3.2 (20.1 ) 4.5 55.9 3.4 Net income 8.8 % 12.0 % 8.6 % 58.9 % 6.4 % *not meaningful 48  Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated net sales by segment, and components of certain segments, and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment, and components of certain segments, for the fiscal years indicated: Amounts in millions Percentage of total Fiscal Year 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 International wholesale: Europe $ 530.0 $ 483.9 $ 378.7 33.5 % 33.8 % 31.2 % Other 271.2 233.2 171.8 17.1 16.2 14.1 Total international wholesale 801.2 717.1 550.5 50.6 50.0 45.3 United States wholesale: Watch products 265.4 251.4 239.0 16.8 17.6 19.7 Other products 207.3 209.2 203.7 13.1 14.6 16.8 Total United States wholesale 472.7 460.6 442.7 29.9 32.2 36.5 Direct to consumer 309.3 255.3 220.8 19.5 17.8 18.2 Total net sales $ 1,583.2 $ 1,433.0 $ 1,214.0 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in sales by segment and on a consolidated basis:  Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Exchange Rates Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 2.7 % 6.8 % 9.5 % Other international wholesale 2.3 14.0 16.3 United States wholesale 2.6 2.6 Direct to consumer (1.1 ) 22.3 21.2 Total 1.1 % 9.4 % 10.5 % European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Shipments from our European wholesale segment expanded in fiscal year 2008 as a result of sales volume growth in licensed brand watches, FOSSIL jewelry and watches, and to a lesser extent, leather goods and licensed brand jewelry. We experienced growth across most of our major licensed brand watch businesses with EMPORIO ARMANI, MICHAEL KORS and DIESEL, increasing 5.5%, 101.4% and 11.0% in fiscal year 2008, respectively. These sales increases were partially offset by a sales volume decline in DKNY&reg; watches of 8.6% that we attribute to a moderating consumer response to core styles within the assortment. We have recently made adjustments within the DNKY product assortment and expect the line to contribute to future sales growth in this segment. We believe the overall growth in our other licensed watch brands represents the results of our continuous efforts to provide innovative styling that differentiates us from our competitors as well as the increased consumer awareness and acceptance of these recognizable global fashion brands over more regional or local brands that we compete against. Whereas EMPORIO ARMANI and DIESEL watches have been distributed in our European wholesale segment for some time, the growth in our MICHAEL KORS watch business is primarily related to the introduction of this brand in 2007 and continued door growth throughout 2008. FOSSIL jewelry, watch and leather sales rose 12.9%, 5.5% and 27.1% in fiscal year 2008, respectively. We believe this growth is the result of consumers positive response to our repositioning of the brand towards a unique 49 Table of Contents modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint as well as increased brand awareness generated by the accelerated growth in our European retail store base. The bulk of our leather business has historically been distributed through the U.S. department store channel. However, we have been able to expand the presence of this business in Europe through some of our wholesale partners based upon the visibility and success of this product category within our own retail stores. Licensed brand jewelry sales rose primarily as a result of the introduction of DKNY jewelry that commenced in the third quarter of 2008. DKNY jewelry contributed $4.6 million to sales during fiscal year 2008 but was partially offset by a planned decrease of 25.7% in ARMANI jewelry as we were updating the line to stainless steel. Overall, we foresee the jewelry category as one of our strongest growth opportunities globally. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Other international wholesale sales include sales from our Asia Pacific, Mexico and Canada subsidiaries and export sales from the United States. The increase in wholesale shipments from our other international segment in fiscal year 2008 was the result of sales volume growth from our licensed brand and FOSSIL watches as well as increased penetration of our jewelry businesses. Increased licensed brand watch net sales were primarily attributable to EMPORIO ARMANI, DIESEL and MICHAEL KORS increasing 20.8%, 17.3% and 131.0% in fiscal year 2008, respectively, partially offset by a 10.1% decrease in DKNY. The decrease in our DKNY watch business was for similar reasons as explained above for our European wholesale segment. As the penetration levels of most of our businesses distributed in this region are much lower than those levels experienced in our U.S. and European wholesale markets, our growth in the other international segment is primarily related to market share expansion in existing doors and growth in new doors as well as the recent expansion of our businesses into China, India and Korea. In the Asia Pacific region, our concession model allows us to essentially operate the space within our customers stores, thereby permitting us to control merchandising, inventory levels, build out and branding decisions, and more importantly, the interaction with the end consumer. We believe the productivity of this model has allowed us to gain market share in our customers stores in comparison to our competitors. Additionally, introduction of new businesses including MICHAEL KORS watches and OYZTERBAY&reg;, a regionally recognized jewelry brand in India acquired in the first half of the year, and DKNY jewelry contributed a combined $8.3 million in net sales during fiscal year 2008. Our European and other international wholesale net sales grew to represent 62.3% of our global wholesale activities in fiscal year 2008 and represent our largest opportunity for continued wholesale expansion on a constant dollar basis. We believe our diverse global distribution network, including owned distribution in 23 countries, combined with our design and marketing capabilities, will allow us to continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands as we continue to increase brand awareness through the growth of our retail stores and introduction of new websites in many of the countries in which we operate. We also believe that the recent expansion of our businesses into new markets will add to our growth in our international wholesale business segments. United States Wholesale Net Sales. During fiscal year 2008, the increase in wholesale watch shipments in the United States was the result of sales volume growth in licensed brand and MICHELE watches, partially offset by a sales volume decrease in FOSSIL watches. Licensed brand watch sales included a 108.4% increase from MICHAEL KORS and a 33.9% increase from EMPORIO ARMANI. We attribute the increases for both of these businesses to further penetration of the lines in the department store channel and new doors being added for MICHAEL KORS. These increases were partially offset by DKNY watches, which experienced a 25.3% net sales volume decline. MICHELE watch sales volume rose 20.8% during fiscal year 2008, primarily as a result of a significant reduction in the level of returns experienced during the year as compared to the prior fiscal year. The increased level of returns in fiscal 2007 was primarily driven by an accommodation made to ship more newness and by the manner in which product was shipped. Watch heads and straps were shipped assembled together as a complete watch rather than being shipped separately. As a result, end of season fashion 50 Table of Contents watches had to be returned to change the straps to current fashion colors. The FOSSIL watch business represents the highest penetration level of our fashion watch brands within the moderate department store environment. As a result, its growth is mostly predicated on the overall performance of the moderate department store channel. We believe the 6.1% net sales decline in FOSSIL watches to be representative of the deteriorating economic conditions in the United States throughout 2008, which has resulted in lower traffic levels in department stores and an overall decline in department store sales during the year. Wholesale shipments from our other products category in the United States, which primarily includes handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, jewelry and cold weather accessories, decreased 0.9% during fiscal year 2008. This decrease is attributable to sales volume declines in FOSSIL mens and womens leather categories of 24.7% and 2.9%, respectively, and a decrease in RELIC eyewear net sales of 26.5%. These declines were mostly offset by a 28.4% increase in RELIC womens handbags and a 138.6% increase in FOSSIL accessory jewelry that was introduced in the fourth quarter of 2007. The sales volume decreases in our FOSSIL mens and womens leather categories are indicative of a weak, highly promotional retail environment that resulted in increased levels of markdown contributions within the United States moderate department store channel, and negatively impacted our sales. Similar to our FOSSIL watch business, our leather goods products are primarily distributed through the moderate department store channel. Sales volume decreases in RELIC eyewear were principally related to a reduction in market share due to a contraction in the number of displays within one of our major customers in 2008 as compared to 2007. However, our RELIC handbag line has continued to be a top performer within its distribution channel. We believe this business benefited from its relative value proposition and consumers selectively shopping for lower priced goods as the economy softened throughout the year. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Net sales from our direct to consumer segment increased 22.3% during fiscal year 2008 principally the result of a 28.5% increase in the average number of stores open during the year and comparable store sales increases of 2.3%. Additionally contributing to our growth in the direct to consumer segment were our e commerce businesses, that grew 22.9% during fiscal year 2008. This growth is attributable to increased sales from our German website that was launched during the second half of 2007, and to a lesser extent, a 6.5% increase in our United States based e commerce business. Comparable store sales related to our full price accessory concept, which is our growth engine in this segment, increased by 2.1% globally while our global outlet stores experienced comparable store sales growth of 5.8% during fiscal year 2008. We ended fiscal year 2008 with 324 stores, including 191 full price accessory stores, 104 of which are located outside the United States, 82 outlet locations, including 8 outside the United States, 33 apparel stores and 18 multi brand stores. This compares to 244 stores at the end of fiscal 2007, which included 113 full price accessory stores, 55 located outside the United States, 80 outlet locations, including 6 outside the United States, 33 apparel stores and 18 multi branded stores. During fiscal year 2008, we opened 84 new stores, including 79 full price accessory stores, and closed 4 stores. During fiscal 2009, we plan to open 40 to 50 stores, concentrating on our full price accessory concept. We expect 90% of these new store openings to be outside of the United States. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by 14.7% to $851.2 million in fiscal year 2008 with gross profit margin expanding by 200 basis points to 53.8% compared to 51.8% in the prior fiscal year. The 51 Table of Contents gross profit margin improvement was principally the result of an increase in the sales mix of our higher margin direct to consumer and international wholesale segments and an approximate 40 basis point improvement relating to the average weaker United States dollar compared to fiscal year 2007. Gross profit margin also improved as a result of our internal initiative, begun in late 2007, to lower our product cost on newly developed styles. Based upon the current prevailing rate of the United States dollar against currencies in other countries in which we operate, we expect our gross profit margin to be negatively impacted during the first nine months of fiscal year 2009 in comparison to the comparable prior year period. We anticipate the decline in gross profit margin relative to currency to be partially offset by an increase in sales mix from our direct to consumer segment that generates gross profit margins significantly higher than our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Our consolidated gross profit margin is impacted by our diversified business model that includes but is not limited to: (i) a significant number of product categories we distribute, (ii) the multiple brands we offer within many of these categories, (iii) the geographical presence of our businesses, and (iv) the different distribution channels we sell to or through. The components of this diversified business model produce varying ranges of gross profit margin. Generally, on an historical basis, our fashion branded watch, jewelry and sunglass offerings produce higher gross profit margins than our leather goods categories. In addition, in most product categories that we offer, brands with higher retail price points generally produce higher gross profit margins compared to those of lower retail priced brands. From a segment standpoint, our direct to consumer business generally produces the highest gross profit margin as a result of these sales being direct to the ultimate consumer. Gross profit margins related to sales in our international wholesale segment are historically lower than our direct to consumer segment, but historically higher than our United States wholesale segment primarily due to the following factors: (i) overall retail prices for comparable product sold in the United States are generally higher in our international businesses as a result of less competitive fashion and designer brands being offered in these markets; (ii) the product sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our United States wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of watches and jewelry that generally produce higher gross profit margins than leather goods; and (iii) the watch sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our United States wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of higher priced licensed brands. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses of $645.4 million represent an increase of $89.8 million in comparison to the prior year and as a percentage of sales increased to 40.8% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to 38.8% in the prior fiscal year. Fiscal year 2008 operating expenses included approximately $7.3 million related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses due to an average weaker U.S. dollar on a comparable year over year basis and approximately $10.6 million of non cash charges related to the write down of certain other than temporary investment, fixed asset, and intangible asset impairments. Fiscal year 2007 operating expenses included approximately $13.1 million related to our completed equity grant review. See Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Operating Expenses. Additionally, the increase in operating expenses in fiscal year 2008 included an approximately $51 million increase in our direct to consumer segment an approximately $36 million increase in operating expenses related to our wholesale businesses. The increase in our direct to consumer operating expenses primarily relates to the impact of the direct operating costs associated with a net 80 new stores opened during fiscal year 2008, the expansion of our back office infrastructure to support a significantly higher number of stores opened globally and expenses associated with the expansion of our e commerce and catalog operations. Operating expenses as a percentage of sales, excluding the impact of asset impairment charges and currency in fiscal year 2008 and expenses associated with our completed equity grant review in fiscal year 2007, increased 220 basis points compared to fiscal year 2007. Approximately $5 million, or 35 basis points, of this increase is due to the higher mix of direct to consumer expenses which partially offset the benefit of a higher gross margin resulting from increasing direct to consumer sales. An additional $29.0 million in expenses, or 185 basis points, is related to our expenses growing at a slightly higher rate than sales primarily due to lower forth quarter sales than 52 Table of Contents originally projected and the expansion of our retail back office infrastructure during fiscal year 2008. For fiscal year 2009, we expect our operating expenses as a percentage of sales to increase due to new retail door growth anticipated for 2009 and the full year operating expense impact of the net 80 stores opened during fiscal year 2008. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and as a percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. Amounts in millions 2008 2007 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 170.5 32 % $ 144.2 30 % Other international wholesale 75.8 28 64.4 28 United States wholesale 144.4 31 141.7 31 Direct to consumer 183.4 59 131.6 52 Corporate 71.3 73.6 Total $ 645.4 41 % $ 555.5 39 % Operating Income. Operating income increased 10.3% to $205.8 million in fiscal year 2008 to $186.5 million in fiscal year 2007. Operating income margin remained unchanged at 13.0% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to the prior year as increased gross profit margin was offset by an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales. Operating income included approximately $6.7 million of net currency gains in fiscal year 2008 related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into United States dollars. Other (Expense) Income Net. Other (expense) income net primarily reflects interest income from investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, minority interest expense of our majority owned consolidated subsidiaries and equity in the earnings or losses of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During fiscal year 2008, other (expense) income net increased unfavorably by approximately $17.7 million as compared to fiscal year 2007, primarily driven by increased foreign currency transaction losses partially offset by forward contract gains. As the U.S. dollar strengthened during the second half of fiscal year 2008, we recognized currency losses related to foreign currency payable balances denominated in U.S. dollars. Although we hedge a portion of our U.S. dollar denominated payables, primarily for those subsidiaries with related exposure to the Euro or British Pound, we have not historically entered into forward contracts for our other, generally smaller international subsidiaries, due to the unpredictable nature of such subsidiaries cash flows. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 27.1% during fiscal year 2008 compared to 34.3% in fiscal year 2007. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2008 is primarily attributable to the recognition of previously unrecognized income tax benefits in connection with the completion of prior year income tax audits. Additionally, when excluding the recognition of previously unrecognized income tax benefits in connection with completed prior year audits, our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2008 would have been 1,100 basis points higher. 53 Table of Contents Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Net Sales. The following table is intended to illustrate by factor the total year over year percentage change in net sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Exchange Rates Acquisitions Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 10.9 % % 16.9 % 27.8 % Other international wholesale 2.3 0.6 32.8 35.7 United States wholesale 4.0 4.0 Direct to consumer 1.7 13.9 15.6 Total 4.0 % 0.1 % 13.9 % 18.0 % Fiscal year 2007 was a 52 week year as compared to a 53 week year for fiscal 2006. We estimate the extra week increased net sales and operating expenses by approximately $16.0 million and $5.0 million, respectively, during fiscal year 2006. European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes which are in the above table. European wholesale sales growth in fiscal year 2007 was led by a 22.9% increase in licensed brand watches as a result of sales volume growth from our EMPORIO ARMANI, DKNY, DIESEL and MICHAEL KORS lines, partially offset by a decrease in sales volume growth from our ADIDAS line. The decrease in ADIDAS sales volume in fiscal year 2007 was due to the anniversarying of the launch of the line in 2006. Consistent growth of these licensed brands, many of which have been distributed in the European market for eight to ten years, exemplified our ability to continually provide innovative styling and build consumer awareness and acceptance of these recognizable fashion brands. Our FOSSIL watch and jewelry businesses also experienced significant growth in fiscal year 2007, increasing approximately 16.9% and 17.0%, respectively. We believe the performance of our FOSSIL watch business in Europe is the result of the consumers positive response to the repositioning of the brand, including its unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint. The FOSSIL jewelry performance in fiscal year 2007 was primarily related to the sales volume growth of the line within Germany, where it was initially launched in 2001, and the continued roll out of the line to other European countries. We further believe the FOSSIL brand performance in the wholesale channel was attributable to the growth in our retail store base during fiscal year 2007 which furthered the awareness of the brand throughout the marketplace. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales growth attributable to foreign currency rate changes and acquisitions which are in the above table. Our other international segment grew rapidly as we expanded into new markets and increased penetration of our brands in existing markets. Sales volume increases from licensed brands and FOSSIL watches in addition to our recent expansion of our owned presence in China were the primary drivers of growth in fiscal year 2007. Sales of licensed watches increased 35.3% in fiscal year 2007 and were principally driven by our ARMANI, DKNY, DIESEL and BURBERRY brands. We also experienced significant growth in our FOSSIL watch line and our jewelry business, which grew 30.2% and 41.0%, respectively. Our concession concept in the Asia Pacific region continues to build awareness for our brands and allowed us to gain market share within the department store environment. United States Wholesale Net Sales. United States wholesale watch sales increased 5.2% in fiscal year 2007 primarily due to sales volume growth from licensed brand watches and to a lesser extent RELIC and mass market watches, partially offset by decreases in FOSSIL brand watch sales. Licensed watch sales increased by 28.9% in fiscal year 2007 and were primarily attributable to the continued roll out of MICHAEL KORS and MARC BY MARC to additional department store doors and increased penetration of BURBERRY and DIESEL watches. The merger of Federated Department 54 Table of Contents Stores and May Company resulted in additional shelf space for our licensed brands, primarily due to Macys expanding the presence of these brands beyond levels experienced in the former May Company stores. RELIC brand watch sales increased 14.0% in fiscal year 2007 and we believe this growth was attributable to new styles introduced during 2007 that are gaining market share at both JCPenney and Kohls. In fiscal year 2007, we experienced an 8% gain in wholesale shipments of private label products to the mass distribution channel. We attribute our growth in the mass distribution channel to further penetration of the private label products we support. FOSSIL watch sales decreased approximately 6.8% in fiscal year 2007. However, excluding sales to the off price channel during fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2006, FOSSIL watch sales were flat. However, we experienced a sequential quarterly improvement in wholesale shipments of FOSSIL watches during fiscal year 2007 and the brand performed well within the department store environment during the difficult holiday period. We believe the repositioning of the brand during fiscal years 2006 and 2007, including its unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint, resonated well with consumers. We believe the performance of FOSSIL watches was negatively impacted during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 as a result of production delays and disruptions caused by the launch of our new e commerce platform. Net sales in our other United States products category increased 2.7% in fiscal year 2007. This increase included $3.6 million and $1.6 million from the launch of our FOSSIL accessories jewelry line and cold weather category, respectively, during the second half of fiscal year 2007. Additionally, we experienced sales volume growth in FOSSIL handbags, RELIC leather goods and our sunglasses business in fiscal year 2007. These increases were partially offset by sales declines in our small leather goods and belt categories of 15.9% and 39.9%, respectively. We believe the decrease in our small leather goods and belt categories are attributable to reduced consumer interest in these categories. Our FOSSIL handbag business growth of 5.3% in fiscal year 2007 was primarily related to a solid holiday performance resulting in a 13.5% increase during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. We began shipping new styles in the FOSSIL handbag line during the second half of fiscal year 2007, including a revamped core leather group geared towards the brands new modern vintage styling and aspiration viewpoint. In addition, our handbag results were positively impacted by the introduction of FIFTY FOUR FOSSIL handbags, a premium line priced from $250 to $450, that we launched during the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 to 50 Macys and Dillards doors. RELIC leather good sales increased 8.1% and were primarily attributable to sales volume growth in our handbag line with JCPenney and Kohls. Sales from our sunglasses business rose 10.6% in fiscal year 2007 with solid results in both the FOSSIL and RELIC brands. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. Net sales from our retail stores worldwide increased 15.6% during fiscal year 2007 as a result of a 20.4% increase in the average number of stores opened during the year and comparable store sales increases of 2.3%. Net sales from our e commerce businesses increased 1.5% in fiscal year 2007 which is principally attributable to the September 2007 launch of our first commercial website outside the U.S., in Germany, which generated sales of $1.0 million, partially offset by a 3.3% decrease in our U.S. based e commerce business. The 2.3% increase in comparable store sales was negatively impacted by a 3.4% comparable store sales decrease during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. Factors that we believe negatively impacted our fourth quarter 2007 retail store results and e commerce based business included production delays of several key advertised styles, disruptions caused by the launch of our new e commerce platform and a generally weak U.S. retail environment resulting in decreased mall foot traffic. We experienced comparable store sales increases of 5.2% in our 70 full price accessory concept stores during fiscal year 2007. Since 2006, our new accessory stores reflect a redesign of our historical presentation to a more modern vintage image that focuses on a more aspirational lifestyle customer. At the end of fiscal year 2007, we operated 244 stores, including 113 full price accessory stores, 55 of which were outside the U.S., 80 outlet locations, including 6 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores, and 18 multi brand stores. This compares to 198 stores at the end of fiscal 2006, which included 73 full 55 Table of Contents price accessory stores, 31 located outside the U.S., 78 outlet locations, including 4 outside the U.S., 32 apparel stores, and 15 multi branded stores. We opened 53 new stores and closed 7 stores during the fiscal year 2007. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by 21.9% to $742.0 million in fiscal year 2007 with gross profit margin expanding by 160 basis points to 51.8% compared to 50.2% in fiscal year 2006. The improvement in margin included an approximate 140 basis point benefit related to the impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. Additionally, gross profit margin was favorably impacted by an increased sales mix of higher margin international sales, an increase in outlet store margins and positive results from our internal initiative to improve our gross profit margin. A reduction in the level of discontinued styles and excess inventory encountered in fiscal year 2007 in comparison to fiscal year 2006 allowed us to establish higher average prices in our outlet stores, leading to improved gross profit margins. Additionally, focus on improving our product costs and retail pricing on new styles began to positively impact our gross margin late in fiscal year 2007. These favorable increases in gross profit margin were partially offset by increased levels of lower margin sales to distributors, a slight increase in wholesale markdowns and slightly higher duty costs. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses increased $70.0 million to $555.5 million in fiscal year 2007 and included $13.1 million of one time charges relating to our voluntary evaluation of our accounting for equity based compensation, including the appropriateness of accounting measurement dates used to determine the amounts of compensation charges and related tax effects which have been previously disclosed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 2007 (the "Grant Review"). As a percent of sales, operating expenses decreased 120 basis points to 38.8% in fiscal year 2007 compared to 40.0% in fiscal year 2006. Excluding the impact of expenses related to the Grant Review, the increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by $16.1 million of expenses related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses as a result of a weakening U.S. dollar and increased payroll, rent and facilities expenses, primarily associated with our retail store growth. Payroll expense increases were further impacted by increased costs attributable to our incentive cash and equity compensation plans and increased back office headcount to support our retail store growth. To a lesser extent, operating expenses increased in fiscal year 2007 as a result of new category launches and increases in certain variable expenses as a result of higher levels of sales. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated: Amounts in millions 2007 2006 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 144.2 30 % $ 133.5 35 % Other international wholesale 64.4 28 52.8 31 United States wholesale 141.7 31 141.7 32 Direct to consumer 131.6 52 94.2 43 Corporate 73.6 63.4 Total $ 555.5 39 % $ 485.6 40 % Operating Income. Operating income increased 51.2% to $186.5 million in fiscal year 2007 compared to $123.3 million in fiscal year 2006. Operating income margin increased to 13.0% in fiscal year 2007 compared to 10.2% in fiscal year 2006. The increase in our operating income margin was favorably impacted by increased gross profit margin, operating expense leverage and $29.0 million of net currency gains related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into U.S. dollars. 56 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased by approximately $2.7 million to $0.9 million in fiscal year 2007 compared to $3.6 million in fiscal year 2006. This decrease is principally due to the payment of previously outstanding borrowings on our U.S. based revolving line of credit at the end of fiscal year 2006. These borrowings were primarily used for common stock repurchases in late 2005 and early 2006 as well as capital expenditures. Other (Expense) Income Net. Other (expense) income net increased favorably by approximately $2.9 million in fiscal year 2007 as a result of increased interest income resulting from higher levels of invested cash balances and increases in equity in the earnings of our non consolidated joint venture. These favorable increases were partially offset by foreign currency transaction losses and increased minority interest expense. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% during fiscal year 2007 compared to 34.7% in fiscal year 2006. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2007 was primarily attributable to higher foreign income taxed at lower effective rates. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. We believe that, to the extent inflation affects our costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our general business operations have not required substantial cash during the first quarter of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame as we increase inventory levels in advance of the holiday season. Our quarterly cash requirements are also impacted by the number of new stores we open. Our cash and cash equivalent balances as of the end of fiscal year 2008 decreased to $172 million in comparison to $255 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. Of the $172 million of cash and cash equivalents at fiscal year end 2008, $124 million was held in banks outside the United States. The decrease in our cash holdings is primarily the result of $113 million of cash used in financing activities and $82 million of cash used in investing activities, partially offset by $109 million of net cash generated from operating activities. Cash flows used in financing activities were primarily related to $106 million of common stock repurchases while cash used in investing activities was primarily related to fixed asset additions of $64 million. Cash flows generated from operating activities were principally driven by net income of $138 million, non cash items of approximately $65 million, $18 million of cash from decreased accounts receivable balances, partially offset by $66 million of cash from decreased current liabilities and $46 million related to increased inventory balances. Accounts receivable at the end of fiscal year 2008 decreased by 9.5% to $206 million compared to $227 million at the end of fiscal year 2007, primarily due to a reduction in wholesale shipments during December 2008 versus December 2007 and a higher mix of direct to consumer segment sales. Average days sales outstanding for our wholesale segments increased to 60 days in fiscal year 2008 from 57 days in the prior fiscal year primarily due to higher levels of international sales that generally result in longer collection cycles than those experienced in the U.S. Fiscal year 2008 ending inventory of $292 million represented a 17.5% increase compared to $248 million in the prior year. The increase in inventory was primarily due to lower fourth quarter sales than previously projected and an increase of $11.2 million in raw materials, work in process and in transit inventories representing accelerated purchases and delivery of product as a result of the Chinese New Year occurring two weeks earlier in 2008 than 2007. Additionally, inventory increased by approximately $5.8 million due to the net increase of 80 retail stores opened since the end of fiscal year 2007. 57  Table of Contents At the end of fiscal year 2008, we had working capital of $556 million compared to $546 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. We had approximately $5 million and $10 million of outstanding short term borrowings at the end of fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2007, respectively, primarily related to local working capital lines of credit in Japan and the United Kingdom. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, our revolving credit facility for our UK subsidiary expired and was not renewed. At the end of fiscal year 2008 our outstanding borrowings in Japan were approximately $4.9 million. These borrowings are under two short term credit facilities allowing for borrowings up to 450 million yen (approximately $4.9 million U.S. dollars based upon the fiscal year end 2008 yen exchange rate to the U.S. dollar), bearing interest at the Euroyen rate and Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate (approximately 1.68% and 1.09%, respectively at fiscal 2008 year end). Borrowings under these Japanese facilities are due in May 2009. At the end of fiscal year 2008, we had no outstanding borrowings under our $140 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility ("U.S. Credit Facility") with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ("Wells Fargo") which bears interest at our option of (i) the LIBOR base rate (0.43% at fiscal 2008 year end) plus 50 basis points, or (ii) the lesser of (a) the higher of Wells Fargos prime rate (3.25% at fiscal 2008 year end) plus 1.5%, (b) 3.0%, or (c) the maximum rate allowed by law. This facility has an expiration date in November 2009. At the end of fiscal year 2008, our wholly owned subsidiary, Fossil Group Europe, Gmbh, had outstanding long term borrowings in the form of a term note of $3.5 million. This note has a variable interest term with an interest rate of 3.25% at year end fiscal 2008 with interest payments due quarterly. This note requires minimum principal payments of 100,000 Swiss Francs each year with no stated maturity and no penalties for early termination. During fiscal year 2009, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $35 to $45 million principally to support new company owned retail store openings, costs associated with the implementation of a SAP point of sale system for our company owned retail stores and other general maintenance capital requirements. We believe that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand and, if necessary, amounts available under our U.S. Credit Facility will be sufficient to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Contractual Obligations Debt obligations(1) $ 8,510 $ 4,989 $ 185 $ 185 $ 3,151 Minimum royalty payments(2) 212,850 53,087 88,726 68,980 2,057 Capital lease obligations 1,591 315 606 594 76 Operating lease obligations 377,616 57,999 105,733 82,602 131,282 Purchase obligations(3) 53,539 53,539 Uncertain tax positions(4) 900 900 Total contractual cash obligations $ 655,006 $ 170,829 $ 195,250 $ 152,361 $ 136,566 (1)Consists of borrowings in Japan and Switzerland excluding contractual interest payments that are variable in nature. (2)Consists of primarily exclusive licenses to manufacture watches and jewelry under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. 58 Table of Contents (3)Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. (4)Management has only included its current FIN 48 liability in the table above. The long term amounts of $38.8 million have been excluded because the payment timing cannot be reasonably estimated. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Certain line items presented in the tables below, when aggregated, may not agree to the corresponding line items on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 due to rounding. Fiscal Year 2008 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 356,184 $ 353,191 $ 409,760 $ 464,106 Gross profit 194,251 190,339 224,177 242,384 Operating expenses 145,136 155,378 160,439 184,427 Operating income 49,115 34,961 63,738 57,957 Income before income taxes 47,457 32,000 59,624 50,347 Provision for income taxes 17,240 6,863 23,153 4,075 Net income 30,217 25,137 36,471 46,272 Earnings per share: Basic 0.44 0.37 0.54 0.70 Diluted 0.43 0.36 0.54 0.69 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 54.5 % 53.9 % 54.7 % 52.2 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 40.7 % 44.0 % 39.2 % 39.7 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 13.8 % 9.9 % 15.6 % 12.5 % 59 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2007 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 304,825 $ 306,464 $ 358,582 $ 463,112 Gross profit 156,119 150,530 186,956 248,425 Operating expenses 123,564 127,414 138,502 166,065 Operating income 32,555 23,116 48,454 82,360 Income before income taxes 33,829 23,239 49,671 80,786 Provision for income taxes 8,797 8,567 19,218 27,683 Net income 25,032 14,672 30,453 53,103 Earnings per share: Basic 0.37 0.22 0.45 0.77 Diluted 0.36 0.21 0.43 0.75 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 51.2 % 49.1 % 52.1 % 53.6 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 40.5 % 41.6 % 38.6 % 35.9 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 10.7 % 7.5 % 13.5 % 17.8 % During the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008, we experienced double digit percentage increases in net sales and net income in comparison to the corresponding prior fiscal year quarters. However, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, economic conditions deteriorated around the world and the U.S. dollar strengthened against other currencies of countries in which we operate. These two factors resulted in our comparable fourth quarter 2008 net sales growth slowing dramatically in comparison to the first three quarters of fiscal year 2008 and our reported net income decreased by 12.9% in comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. We expect that these deteriorating economic conditions will persist throughout 2009 and continue to negatively impact our ability to grow our sales and earnings at the pace we experienced prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. Additionally, for the first three quarters of 2009, at the current prevailing foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies of countries in which we operate, we expect our reported net sales, operating income and net income will be negatively impacted in comparison to the corresponding prior period results. While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the "back to school" and Christmas season, have historically generated a significant portion of our annual operating income. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter of the following year as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. We currently believe that our inventory levels at our major customers at the end of fiscal year 2008 were near their targeted inventory levels, however, we believe the current economic environment will negatively impact the level of orders we receive from many of our customers around the world in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Additionally, as we continue to grow in the direct to consumer segment, we believe we will continue to experience a greater percentage of our annual profits in the back half of the year. As a percent of sales, we believe operating expenses will be more significant in the first half of the year when due to seasonality, our sales volumes are lower while our carrying costs of stores opened during the prior year carry into the following year. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of 60 Table of Contents operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro, British Pound, Swiss Franc and, to a lesser extent, the Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, Mexican Peso, Malaysian Ringitt and Singapore Dollar, as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of operating practices to manage these market risks relative to foreign currency exchange rate changes and, where deemed appropriate, utilize foreign currency forward contracts. These operating practices include, among others, our ability to convert foreign currency into U.S. dollars at spot rates and to maintain U.S. dollar pricing relative to sales of our products to certain distributors located outside the U.S. The use of foreign currency forward contracts allows us to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in 2008 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At January 3, 2009, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 85.2 million Euro for approximately $119.2 million, expiring through June 2010, approximately 1.3 billion Japanese Yen for $14.3 million, expiring through December 2009, approximately 5.5 million British Pounds for $10.7 million, expiring through April 2009 and approximately 3.0 million Australian Dollars for $2.7 million, expiring February 2009. If we were to settle our Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound and Australian Dollar based contracts at fiscal year end 2008, the net result would be a net gain of approximately $1.0 million, net of taxes. Exclusive of these outstanding foreign exchange contracts or other operating or financing activities that may be employed by us, a measurement of the unfavorable impact of a 10 percent change in the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc as compared to the U.S. dollar on our operating profits and stockholders equity is presented in the following paragraph. At fiscal year end 2008, a 10% unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc involving balance sheet transactional exposures would have reduced net pre tax income by $8.4 million. The translation of the balance sheets of our European, United Kingdom and Switzerland based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2008, a 10% unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British Pound and Swiss Franc would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $23.0 million. In the view of management, the risks associated with exchange rate changes in other currencies we have exposure to are not material and these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 61  Table of Contents  
 
