Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The words "may", "believes", "expects", "plans", "intends", "anticipates" and similar expressions identify forward looking statements. The actual results of the future events described in such forward looking statements could differ materially from those stated in such forward looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially due to the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including those discussed below. Accordingly, readers of this Annual Report on Form 10 K should consider these factors in evaluating, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on, the forward looking statements contained herein. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 25 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Our Business The deterioration in the global economic environment, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The global economic environment has been challenging during the past fifteen months. Declining real estate values, reduced lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, increases in unemployment levels and significant volatility in the global financial markets have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This has affected our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. In many countries in which we distribute our products, we are experiencing a significant slowdown in customer traffic and a highly promotional environment. If the global macroeconomic environment continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues and earnings across most of our segments for fiscal year 2010 and potentially continuing into fiscal year 2011. The effects of economic cycles, terrorism, acts of war and retail industry conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war and military action both in the U.S. and abroad can have a significant effect on economic conditions and may negatively affect our ability to procure our products from manufacturers for sale to our customers. Any significant declines in general economic conditions, public safety concerns or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits could have a material adverse effect on consumer purchases of our products. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences in a timely manner while preserving the authenticity and the quality of our brands. Although we attempt to stay abreast of emerging lifestyle and fashion trends affecting accessories and apparel, any failure by us to identify and respond to such trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our existing brand names and product lines, which in turn could adversely affect sales of our products. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of any of our license agreements, pursuant to which a number of our products are produced, may result in the loss of significant revenues and may adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our growth in sales and net income is, and is expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of products produced under license agreements with third parties. Under these license agreements, we generally have the right to produce, market and distribute certain products utilizing the brand names of other companies. We sell products under certain licensed brands, including, but not limited to, ADIDAS, EMPORIO ARMANI, BURBERRY, DIESEL, DKNY, MARC BY MARC JACOBS and MICHAEL Michael Kors. Sales of our licensed products amounted to 33.7% of our net sales for fiscal year 2009, with certain individual licensed brands accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. Our material license agreements have various expiration dates between 2009 and 2014. In addition, certain license agreements may require us to make minimum royalty payments, 26 Table of Contents subject us to restrictive covenants or require us to comply with certain other obligations and may be terminated by the licensor if these or other conditions are not met or upon certain events. We may not be able to continue to meet our obligations or fulfill the conditions under these agreements in the future. In addition, we may be unable to renew our existing license agreements beyond the current term or obtain new license agreements to replace any lost license agreements on similar economic terms or at all. The failure by us to maintain or renew one or more of our existing material license agreements could result in a significant decrease in our sales and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products. Our success also depends upon our ability to continue to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products, or if our competitors introduce superior products, customers may purchase increasing amounts of products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Reduced lending by banks could have a negative impact on our customers, suppliers and business partners, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The reduction in lending by banks is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. Although we believe that our cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our U.S. Credit Facility will provide us with sufficient liquidity for the foreseeable future; the impact of reduced lending on our customers, business partners and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. The inability of our manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet delivery date requirements. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers, distributors or licensees to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses, which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and liquidity. Seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal cycles, the timing of new product introductions, the timing of orders by our customers and the mix of product sales demand. Our business is seasonal by nature. A significant portion of our net sales and operating income are generated during the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, which includes the "back to school" and Christmas seasons. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the fourth quarter depends upon the anticipated level of retail sales during the Christmas season, as well as, general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In addition, the amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter depends in part upon the actual level of retail sales during the Christmas season. The seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income during the first and fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Our plan to significantly increase our store base may not be successful, and implementation of this plan may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. Each year, we have historically expanded our store base. During fiscal 2010, we intend to further expand our store base by opening approximately 50 new stores globally. Thereafter, in the near term, we plan to continue to expand our store base annually. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to open new stores and renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial 27 Table of Contents targets. Our ability to open new stores on schedule or at all, to renew existing store leases on favorable terms or to operate them on a profitable basis will depend on various factors, including our ability to: identify suitable markets for new stores and available store locations; negotiate acceptable lease terms for new locations or renewal terms for existing locations; manage and expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth; hire and train qualified sales associates; develop new merchandise and manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; and avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build out of new stores. Our plans to expand our store base may not be successful and the implementation of these plans may not result in an increase in our net sales even though they increase our costs. Additionally, implementing our plans to expand our store base will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. The increased demands of operating additional stores could cause us to operate less effectively, which could cause the performance of our existing stores and our wholesale operations to suffer materially. Any of these outcomes of our attempted expansion of our store base could have a material adverse effect on the amount of net sales we generate and on our financial condition and results of operations. We have key facilities in the U.S. and overseas, the loss or shut down of any of which could harm our business. Our administrative and distribution operations in the U.S. are conducted primarily from five separate facilities located in the Dallas, Texas area. Our operations internationally are conducted from various administrative, distribution and assembly facilities outside of the U.S., particularly in China, Germany, Hong Kong and Switzerland. The complete or temporary loss of use of all or part of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our warehouse and distribution facilities in Dallas and Richardson, Texas are operated in a special purpose sub zone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board. Although the sub zone allows us certain tax advantages, the sub zone is highly regulated by the U.S. Customs Service. This level of regulation may cause disruptions or delays in the distribution of our products out of these facilities. Under some circumstances, the U.S. Customs Service has the right to shut down the entire sub zone and, therefore, our entire warehouse and distribution facilities. During the time that the sub zone is shut down, we may be unable to adequately meet the supply requests of our customers and our company owned retail stores, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, relationships with our customers, and results of operations, especially if the shut down were to occur during our third or fourth quarter. Our ability to grow our sales is dependent upon the implementation of our growth strategy, which we may not be able to achieve. Since our public offering in 1993, we have experienced substantial growth in net sales. Our ability to continue this growth is dependent on the successful implementation of our business strategy. This includes diversification of our product offerings, expansion of our company owned accessory locations and possibly strategic acquisitions. If we are not successful in the expansion of our product offerings or our new products are not profitable or do not generate sales comparable to those of our existing 28 Table of Contents businesses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Another element of our business strategy is to place increased emphasis on growth in selected international markets. If our brand names and products do not achieve a high degree of consumer acceptance in these markets, our net sales could be adversely affected. We also operate FOSSIL brand stores and other non FOSSIL branded stores and have historically expanded our company owned accessory and outlet locations to further strengthen our brand image. As of January 2, 2010, we operated 354 stores worldwide. The costs associated with leasehold improvements to current stores and the costs associated with opening new stores could materially increase our costs of operation. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings and new products introduced by us may not achieve consumer acceptance comparable to that of our existing product lines. We have recently expanded and intend to further expand the scope of our product offerings. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products, or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brands. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to generate consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors and that are accepted by consumers, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our sales and market share. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write downs or the sale of excess inventory at prices below our standard levels. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. Our license agreements may require minimum royalty commitments regardless of the level of product sales under these agreements. With respect to our license agreements, we have in the past experienced, and could again in the future experience, instances where minimum royalty commitments under these agreements exceeded royalties payable based upon our sales of such licensed products. We incurred royalty expense of approximately $73.9 million, $74.9 million and $60.7 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We also have agreements in effect at the end of fiscal year 2009 which expire on various dates from December 2010 through December 2014 that require us to pay royalties ranging from 3% to 20% of defined net sales. 29  Table of Contents Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delays and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the raw materials used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or ability to meet our customers demands. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including natural resources, increased freight costs, increased labor costs, especially in China, and weather conditions. In the future, we may not be able to pass on, all or a portion of, such higher raw materials prices to our customers. We rely on third party manufacturers and problems with, or loss of, our suppliers or raw materials could harm our business and results of operations. All of our apparel, footwear, sunglasses, handbags, small leather goods and belts, cold weather accessories and certain of our watch and jewelry products are produced by independent manufacturers. We do not have long term contracts with these manufacturers. In addition, we face the risk that these third party manufacturers, with whom we contract to produce our products, may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis, or at all. As a result, we cannot be certain that these manufacturers will continue to manufacture products for us or that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages for certain products and harm our business. Access to suppliers that are not Fossil subsidiaries is not guaranteed because we do not maintain long term contracts but instead rely on long standing business relationships, which may not continue in the future. The majority of our watch products are currently assembled to our specifications by our majority owned entities in China with the remainder assembled by unrelated entities. Certain of our other products are currently manufactured to our specifications by independent manufacturers in international locations, including, but not limited to, China and Hong Kong and to a lesser extent Italy, Korea, Mexico, Switzerland and Taiwan. We have no long term contracts with these independent manufacturing sources and compete with other companies for production facilities. All transactions between us and our independent manufacturing sources are conducted on the basis of purchase orders. Our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain close relationships with our current suppliers and to develop long term relationships with other suppliers that satisfy our requirements for price, quality and production flexibility. Our ability to establish new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery. Any failure by us to maintain long term relationships with our current suppliers or to develop relationships with other suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. If an independent manufacturer or license partner of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. We have no control over the ultimate actions or labor practices of our independent manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers, or by one of our license partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturers or license partners labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S. or other countries in which the violation or divergence occurred, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and 30 Table of Contents results of operations. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers or licensors be found in violation of state or international labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. We extend unsecured credit to our customers and are therefore vulnerable to any financial difficulties they may face. We sell our merchandise primarily to department stores and specialty retail stores worldwide. We extend credit based on an evaluation of each customers financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Should any of our larger customers experience financial difficulties, we could curtail business with such customers or assume more credit risk relating to such customers receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable relating to such customers could have a material adverse effect on the amount of sales revenue that we receive and our financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain long term contracts with our customers and are unable to control their purchasing decisions. We do not maintain long term purchasing contracts with our customers and therefore have no contractual leverage over their purchasing decisions. A decision by a major department store or other significant customer to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and operating strategy. Our direct to consumer business segment operates in the highly competitive specialty retail, e commerce and catalog industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors are substantially greater than ours, which may allow them to compete more effectively. We face intense competition in the specialty retail, e commerce and catalog industry. We compete primarily with specialty retailers, department stores, catalog retailers and internet businesses that engage in the retail sale of watches, accessories and apparel. We believe that the principal basis upon which we compete is the quality and design of merchandise and the quality of customer service. We also believe that price is an important factor in our customers decision making processes. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and generate greater national brand recognition than we can. This intense competition and greater size and resources of some of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on the amount of net sales we generate and on our results of operations. We could be negatively impacted if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. As part of our growth strategy, we have made certain acquisitions, domestically and internationally, including acquisitions of FOSSIL stores previously operated under license agreements, acquisitions of certain watch brands and acquisitions of independent distributors of our products. The integration of these and future acquisitions may not be successful or generate sales increases. When we have acquired businesses, we have acquired businesses that we believe could enhance our business opportunities and our growth prospects. All acquisitions involve risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. These risks include: distraction of management from our business operations; loss of key personnel and other employees; costs, delays, and inefficiencies associated with integrating acquired operations and personnel; the impairment of acquired assets and goodwill; and 31 Table of Contents acquiring the contingent and other liabilities of the businesses we acquire. In addition, acquired businesses may not provide us with increased business opportunities, or result in the growth that we anticipate. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations is a complex, time consuming and expensive process. Combining acquired operations with us may result in lower overall operating margins, greater stock price volatility and quarterly earnings fluctuations. Cultural incompatibilities, career uncertainties and other factors associated with such acquisitions may also result in the loss of employees. Failure to acquire and successfully integrate complementary practices, or failure to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits, could materially adversely affect our business, our financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors are established companies that may have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including design and distribution. There is intense competition in each of the businesses in which we compete. In all of our businesses, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors who may have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than us. Our competitors include distributors that import watches, accessories and apparel from abroad, U.S. companies that have established foreign manufacturing relationships and companies that produce accessories and apparel domestically. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely affected by our competitors and their competitive pressures in the watch, fashion accessory and apparel industries. Our implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system could disrupt our computer system and divert management time. In 2003, we began implementing an enterprise resource planning system from SAP AG, a German software company. We implemented the new enterprise resource planning system in our U.S., Germany, France and Italy locations in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2008, respectively. We intend to replace our existing enterprise resource planning systems and other principal financial systems in certain other subsidiaries located in Europe with software systems provided by SAP AG. We have implemented Navision as our standard system throughout most of our Far East distribution subsidiary operations. During 2007, we implemented this system in our principal Hong Kong office and China assembly facilities. Our current expansion plans may place significant strain on our management, working capital, financial and management control systems and staff. The failure to maintain or upgrade financial and management control systems, to recruit additional staff or to respond effectively to difficulties encountered during expansion could have a material adverse effect on our ability to respond to trends in our target markets, market our products and meet our customers requirements. The sustained disruption or failure of our systems due to force majeure or as part of an upgrade, conversion or other systems maintenance could result in the same adverse effects. Changes in the mix of product sales demand could negatively impact our gross profit margins. Our gross profit margins are impacted by our sales mix. Sales from our direct to consumer segment and international and licensed watch businesses generally provide gross margins in excess of our historical consolidated gross profit margin, while accessory products generally provide gross profit margins below our historical consolidated gross profit margin. If future sales from our direct to consumer segment and international and licensed watch businesses do not increase at a faster rate than our U.S. accessory business, our gross profit margins may grow at a slower pace, cease to grow, or decrease relative to our historical consolidated gross profit margin. We also distribute private label product to the mass market channel at gross profit margins significantly lower than our historical consolidated gross profit margin. Future growth in this channel at rates in excess of our consolidated net sales growth rate could negatively impact our consolidated gross profit margins. 32 Table of Contents Our industry is subject to pricing pressures that may adversely impact our financial performance. We assemble or source many of our products offshore because they generally cost less to make overseas, due primarily to lower labor costs. Many of our competitors also source their product requirements offshore to achieve lower costs, possibly in locations with lower costs than our offshore operations, and those competitors may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry wide pricing pressures. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our production costs or our production costs increase and we cannot increase our prices. The loss of our intellectual property rights may harm our business. Our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We are devoted to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights in those countries where we believe it is important to our ability to sell our products. However, we cannot be certain that the actions we have taken will result in enforceable rights, will be adequate to protect our products in every country where we may want to sell our products, will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to prevent sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Additionally, we rely on the patent, trademark and other intellectual property laws of the U.S. and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. Even if we are successful in obtaining appropriate trademark, patent and other intellectual property rights, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. Because we sell our products internationally and are dependent on foreign manufacturing in China, we are significantly dependent on foreign countries to protect our intellectual property rights. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. Further, if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. The failure to obtain or maintain trademark, patent or other intellectual property rights could materially harm our business. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. An increase in product returns could negatively impact our operating results. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been 33 Table of Contents within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns occur. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs and affect how our stock trades. This could in turn negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. Factors Relating to Our International Operations Factors affecting international commerce and our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from outside of the U.S., and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations could account for an increasingly larger portion of our net sales in the future. Our international operations are directly related to, and dependent on, the volume of international trade and foreign market conditions. International commerce and our international operations are subject to many risks, some of which are discussed in more detail below, including: recessions in foreign economies; the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions; limitations on repatriation of earnings; 34 Table of Contents difficulties in protecting our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries; longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing foreign operations; social, political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; our ability to finance foreign operations; tariffs and other trade barriers; and U.S. government licensing requirements for exports. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected regions and decrease the profitability of our international operations, which may seriously harm our financial condition. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source a significant amount of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the currencies, including the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, Danish Krone, Euro, Hong Kong Dollar, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen, Korean Won, Malaysian Ringgit, Mexican Peso, Norwegian Kroner, Singapore Dollar, Swedish Krona, Swiss Franc and Taiwanese Dollar. Due to our dependence on manufacturing operations in China, changes in the value of the Chinese Yuan may have a material impact on our supply channels and manufacturing costs, including component and assembly costs. Changes in the currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Although we utilize forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risks (mostly relating to the Euro and the British Pound, Japanese Yen and Australian Dollar), if we are unsuccessful in mitigating these risks, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products in certain international markets. Our products are sold in certain international markets through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in, and a resulting loss of, sales and profits. Because we are dependent on foreign manufacturing we are vulnerable to changes in economic and social conditions in Asia and disruptions in international travel and shipping. Because a substantial portion of our watches and certain of our handbags, sunglasses and other products are assembled or manufactured in China, our success will depend to a significant extent upon future economic and social conditions existing in China. If the factories in China were disrupted for any reason, we would need to arrange for the manufacture and shipment of products by alternative sources. Because the establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, including those relating to payment terms, costs of manufacturing, adequacy of manufacturing capacity, quality control and timeliness of delivery, we are unable to predict whether such new relationships would be on terms that we regard as satisfactory. Any significant disruption in our relationships with our manufacturing sources located in China would have a material adverse effect on our ability to 35 Table of Contents manufacture and distribute our products. Restrictions on travel to and from this and other regions, similar to those imposed during the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome in 2003, commonly known as SARS, and any delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products on account of SARS or other syndromes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer deadlines and timely distribute our products in order to match consumer tastes. Risks associated with foreign government regulations and U.S. trade policy may affect our foreign operations and sourcing. Our businesses are subject to risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulation in the countries in which our manufacturing sources are located, primarily China. While we have not experienced any material issues with foreign governmental regulations that would impact our arrangements with our foreign manufacturing sources, we believe that this issue is of particular concern with regard to China due to the less mature nature of the Chinese market economy and the historical involvement of the Chinese government in industry. If regulation were to render the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impracticable, or if our current foreign manufacturing sources were for any other reason to cease doing business with us, such a development could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and on our supply, manufacturing and distribution channels. Our business is also subject to the risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations relating to imports, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, and other charges or restrictions on imports, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. and foreign customs quotas, duties (including antidumping or countervailing duties), tariffs, taxes or other charges or restrictions, requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports will be imposed upon the importation of our products in the future or adversely modified, or what effect such actions would have on our costs of operations. For example, our products imported to the U.S. are subject to U.S. customs duties and, in the ordinary course of our business we may from time to time be subject to claims by the U.S. Customs Service for duties and other charges. Factors that may influence the modification or imposition of these restrictions include the determination by the U.S. Trade Representative that a country has denied adequate intellectual property rights or fair and equitable market access to U.S. firms that rely on intellectual property, trade disputes between the U.S. and a country that leads to withdrawal of "most favored nation" status for that country and economic and political changes within a country that are viewed unfavorably by the U.S. government. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to: quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the countries where our apparel producing facilities are located and foreign countries; and customs duties imposed by the governments where our apparel producing facilities are located on imported products, including raw materials. Our apparel business is also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization, referred to as the WTO. Generally, such trade agreements benefit our apparel business by reducing or eliminating the duties and or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country. However, trade agreements can also impose requirements that 36 Table of Contents negatively impact our apparel business, such as limiting the countries from which we can purchase raw materials and setting quotas on products that may be imported into the U.S. from a particular country. In addition, the WTO may commence a new round of trade negotiations that liberalize textile trade. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Many factors may cause our net sales, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate and possibly decline, which may result in declines in our stock price. Our net sales, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors may include, but may not be limited to, the following: fluctuations in market demand for our products; increased competition and pricing pressures; our ability to anticipate changing customer demands and preferences; our failure to efficiently manage our inventory levels; our inability to manage and maintain our debt obligations; seasonality in our business; changes in our, and our competitors, business strategy or pricing; the successful expansion of our owned retail stores; the timing of certain general and administrative expenses; completing acquisitions and the costs of integrating acquired operations; international currency fluctuations, operating challenges and trade regulations; acts of terrorism or acts of war; and government regulation. One or more of the foregoing factors, as well as any other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, may cause our operating expenses to be unexpectedly high or result in a decrease in our net sales during any given period. If these or any other variables or unknowns were to cause a shortfall in revenues or earnings, an increase in our operating costs or otherwise cause a failure to meet public market expectations, our stock price may decline and our business could be adversely affected. Two principal stockholders own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis, our CEO, and Mr. Tom Kartsotis, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, each own a substantial amount of our common stock. As a result, they are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of elections of our directors, the adoption, amendment or repeal of our bylaws and any other actions requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders, and to otherwise influence our affairs. Because the interests of Messrs. Kartsotis may not coincide with the interests of other shareholders, Messrs. Kartsotis may influence the Company to enter into transactions or agreements that other shareholders would not approve or make decisions with which other shareholders may disagree. 37  Table of Contents Our organizational documents contain anti takeover provisions that could discourage a proposal for a takeover. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a proposal for a takeover. These include a provision in our certificate of incorporation authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock; the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year; provisions in our bylaws establishing advance notice procedures with respect to certain stockholder proposals; and a provision stating that directors may be removed by the stockholders only for cause. Our bylaws may be amended by a vote of 80% of the Board of Directors, subject to repeal by a vote of 80% of the stockholders. In addition, Delaware law limits the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in certain business combinations with interested stockholders. Finally, Messrs. Kartsotis have the ability, by virtue of their stock ownership, to significantly influence a vote regarding a change in control. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect our stock price. Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis each own a substantial amount of our common stock. The shares beneficially owned by Mr. Kosta Kartsotis and Mr. Tom Kartsotis may be sold in the open market in the future, subject to any volume restrictions and other limitations under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 144 thereunder. We may also decide to file a registration statement enabling Messrs. Kartsotis to sell additional shares. Any sales by Messrs. Kartsotis of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of their shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales could occur. These sales or the possibility that they may occur also could make it more difficult for us to raise funds in any equity offering in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.  Item 2. Properties Company Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2009, we owned or leased the following material facilities in connection with our U.S. and international operations: Location Use Square Footage Owned / Leased Dallas, Texas Office, warehouse and distribution 517,500 Owned Eggst&auml;tt, Germany Office, warehouse and distribution 230,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Corporate headquarters 190,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Warehouse and distribution 138,000 Owned Richardson, Texas Office 131,541 Owned Basel, Switzerland European headquarters 36,113 Owned Garland, Texas Warehouse 150,000 Lease expiring in 2014 China Manufacturing 110,231 Lease expiring in 2013 Hong Kong Office, warehouse and distribution 102,517 Lease expiring in 2010 New York, New York General office and showroom 26,552 Lease expiring in 2016 We also lease certain other manufacturing and or office, warehouse and or distribution facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Los Angeles, California; Miami, Florida; Australia; Austria; Canada; China; Denmark; France; Hong Kong; India; Italy; Japan; Korea; Malaysia; Mexico; the Netherlands; New Zealand; Norway; Singapore; Sweden; Switzerland; Taiwan and the United Kingdom. 38 Table of Contents U.S. based Apparel Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2009, we had 33 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the U.S. for the sale of our apparel line and certain of our accessory products. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2020. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. U.S. based Accessory Retail Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2009, we had 95 lease agreements for retail space at prime locations in the U.S. for the sale of our full assortment of accessory products and the operation of certain of our Watch Station stores. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2020. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. U.S. based Outlet Store Facilities. We lease retail space at selected outlet centers throughout the U.S. for the sale of our products. As of the end of fiscal year 2009, we had 74 such leases. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2020 and provide for minimum annual rentals and for the payment of additional rent based on a percentage of sales above specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs at each outlet center, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. International Store Facilities. As of the end of fiscal year 2009, we had 138 lease agreements for retail stores located outside the U.S., including leases for 12 stores that are scheduled to open in fiscal year 2010. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2022. The leases provide for minimum annual rentals and, in certain cases, for the payment of additional rent when sales exceed specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. International Outlet Store Facilities. We lease retail space at selected outlet centers located outside the U.S. for the sale of our products. As of the end of fiscal year 2009, we had 16 such leases. The leases, including renewal options, expire at various times from 2010 to 2020 and provide for minimum annual rentals and for the payment of additional rent based on a percentage of sales above specified net sales amounts. We are also required to pay our pro rata share of the common area maintenance costs at each outlet center, including real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance expenses and utilities. We believe that our material existing facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition, and are adequate for our needs.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings Three shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, naming us as a nominal defendant and naming all of our then current directors and certain of our current and former officers and directors as defendants. The first suit, captioned City of Pontiac Policemans and Firemans Retirement System, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Tom Kartsotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Michael L. Kovar, Michael W. Barnes, Mark D. Quick, Randy S. Kercho, Jal S. Shroff, Randy S. Hyne, Thomas R. Tunnel, Richard H. Gundy, Kenneth W. Anderson, Andrea Camerana, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, Donald J. Stone and Cadence Wang (Cause No. 3 06CV1672 P), was filed on September 13, 2006. The second suit, captioned Robert B. Minich, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Tom Karstotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Michael L. Kovar, Michael W. Barnes, Mark D. Quick, Randy S. Kercho, Jal S. Shroff, Randy S. Hyne, Thomas R. Tunnel, Richard H. Gundy, Kenneth W. Anderson, Andrea Camerana, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, Donald J. Stone and 39 Table of Contents Cadence Wang (Cause No. 3 06CV1977 M), was filed on October 26, 2006. The third suit, captioned Robert Neel, derivatively on behalf of Fossil, Inc. v. Michael W. Barnes, Richard H. Gundy, Randy S. Kercho, Mark D. Quick, Tom Kartsotis, Kosta N. Kartsotis, Jal S. Shroff, T. R. Tunnell, Michael L. Kovar, Donald J. Stone, Kenneth W. Anderson, Alan J. Gold, Michael Steinberg, and Fossil, Inc. (Cause No. 3 06CV2264 G), was filed on December 8, 2006. The complaints allege purported violations of federal securities laws and state law claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, constructive fraud, corporate waste, unjust enrichment and gross mismanagement in connection with certain stock option grants made by us. Plaintiffs seek (i) monetary damages for all losses and damages suffered as a result of the acts alleged in the complaint; (ii) for defendants to account for all damages caused by them and all profits and special benefits obtained as a result of the alleged unlawful conduct; (iii) actions to reform and improve Company corporate governance and internal control procedures; (iv) the ordering of the imposition of a constructive trust over the defendants stock options and proceeds derived therefrom; and (v) punitive damages. The ultimate liability with respect to these claims cannot be determined at this time; however, we do not expect these matters to have a material impact on our financial position, operations or liquidity. There are no other legal proceedings to which we are a party or to which our properties are subject, other than routine litigation incident to our business, which is not material to our consolidated financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.  Item 4. [Reserved]  PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities General. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "FOSL." The following table sets forth the range of quarterly high and low sales prices per share of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2010 and January 3, 2009. High Low Fiscal year ended January 2, 2010: First quarter $ 17.87 $ 11.00 Second quarter 24.97 16.12 Third quarter 30.00 21.09 Fourth quarter 34.18 26.14 Fiscal year ended January 3, 2009: First quarter $ 38.24 $ 28.18 Second quarter 37.98 27.42 Third quarter 32.96 22.26 Fourth quarter 25.98 11.51 As of February 26, 2010, there were 136 holders of record, although we believe that the number of beneficial owners is much higher. Cash Dividend Policy. We did not pay any cash dividends in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. We expect that we will retain all available earnings generated by our operations for the development and growth of our business. Any future determination as to a cash dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. 40 Table of Contents Common Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph compares the cumulative return of the common stock over the preceding five year periods with that of the broad market (CRSP Total Return Index of the NASDAQ Global Select Market (US)) and the NASDAQ Retail Trades Group. Each Index assumes $100 invested at December 31, 2004 and is calculated assuming quarterly reinvestment of dividends and quarterly weighting by market capitalization. 2009 COMPARATIVE TOTAL RETURNS Fossil, Inc., NASDAQ Global Select Market and NASDAQ Market Retail Trades Group (Performance Results through 12/31/09) 12/31/04 12/31/05 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 Fossil, Inc. 100.00 83.89 88.07 163.73 65.13 130.89 NASDAQ Global Select Market 100.00 102.13 112.19 121.68 58.64 84.28 NASDAQ Retail Trades 100.00 100.95 110.24 100.31 69.99 97.21 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers On February 16, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized us to repurchase up to $20,000,000 of our common stock. To date, we have not made any repurchases under this authorization. We may repurchase our common stock through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, all in accordance with the provisions of Rule 10b 18 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 41  Table of Contents  Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Fiscal Year 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 1,548,093 $ 1,583,242 $ 1,432,984 $ 1,213,965 $ 1,043,120 Gross profit 844,850 851,151 742,031 608,919 535,140 Operating income 211,627 205,770 186,485 123,325 108,988 Income before taxes attributable to Fossil, Inc. 213,776 189,429 187,526 118,795 102,948 Net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. 139,188 138,097 (1) 123,261 (2) 77,582 75,670 (3) Earnings per share: Basic 2.09 2.05 (1) 1.81 (2) 1.15 1.07 (3) Diluted 2.07 2.02 (1) 1.75 (2) 1.13 1.04 (3) Weighted average common shares and common equivalent shares outstanding: Basic 66,684 67,525 68,213 67,177 70,476 Diluted 67,153 68,323 70,333 68,817 72,424 Working capital $ 701,193 $ 556,497 $ 546,410 $ 357,608 $ 326,502 Total assets 1,276,483 1,087,296 1,122,628 852,597 745,142 Total long term liabilities 62,791 74,964 66,432 22,914 35,628 Stockholders equity attributable to Fossil, Inc. 962,781 802,144 771,662 602,201 526,317 Return on average stockholders equity attributable to Fossil, Inc. 16.2 % 17.8 % 18.3 % 14.2 % 14.0 % (1)Includes $7.3 million in expenses, net of tax, related to the write down of certain other than temporary investment, fixed asset and intangible asset impairments and a $20.8 million benefit in income tax expense related to the reduction of certain current and long term tax liabilities in connection with completion of prior year income tax audits. (2)Includes $8.6 million in expenses, net of tax, relating to our voluntary evaluation of our accounting for equity based compensation, including the appropriateness of accounting measurement dates used to determine the amounts of compensation charges and related tax effects which have been previously disclosed in filings with the SEC. (3)Includes a tax benefit of $12 million related to the repatriation of subsidiary earnings which were not considered permanently invested pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. 42 Table of Contents FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS  Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. Our principal offerings include an extensive line of mens and womens fashion watches and jewelry, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, cold weather accessories, footwear and apparel. In the watch and jewelry product category, we have a diverse portfolio of globally recognized owned and licensed brand names under which our products are marketed. Our products are distributed globally through various distribution channels including wholesale in countries where we have a physical presence, direct to the consumer through our retail stores and commercial websites and through third party distributors in countries where we do not maintain a physical presence. Our products are offered at varying price points to service the needs of our customers, whether they are value conscious or luxury oriented. Based on our extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points, we are able to target style conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis. Domestically, we sell our products through a diversified distribution network that includes department stores, specialty retail locations, specialty watch and jewelry stores, owned retail and factory outlet stores, mass market stores and through our FOSSIL&reg; catalogs and website. Our wholesale customer base includes, among others, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Saks Fifth Avenue, Macys, Dillards, JCPenney, Kohls, Sears, Wal Mart and Target. We also sell our products in the U.S. through a network of company owned stores that included 127 retail stores located in premier retail sites and 74 outlet stores located in major outlet malls as of January 2, 2010. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of our FOSSIL brand products through our catalogs and on our website, www.fossil.com, as well as proprietary and licensed watch and jewelry brands through other managed and affiliated websites. Internationally, our products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores and specialty watch and jewelry stores in over 100 countries worldwide through 23 company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of 59 independent distributors. During fiscal year 2009, approximately 8.2% of our net sales were generated from sales to independent distributors. Our products are distributed in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Central and South America, Canada, the Caribbean, Mexico, and the Middle East. Our products are offered on airlines, cruise ships and in international company owned retail stores, which included 126 accessory retail stores, 11 multi brand stores and 16 outlet stores in select international markets as of January 2, 2010. Our products are also sold through licensed and franchised FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks in certain international markets. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of our FOSSIL brand products on our websites in Australia, www.fossilaustralia.com.au, Germany, www.fossil.de, the United Kingdom, www.fossil.co.uk, and Singapore, www.fossilsingapore.com.sg. Our business is subject to global economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. The global economic environment began to deteriorate in the second half of fiscal year 2008. The declining values in real estate, reduced credit lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, increases in unemployment levels and significant declines and volatility in the global financial markets have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This has affected our business, as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. In North America, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing through most of fiscal year 2009, we experienced a significant slowdown in customer traffic and a highly promotional environment. These same conditions spread to many international markets during 2009. While we have experienced a 43 Table of Contents slight recovery in our North American market during the fourth quarter of 2009, if economic conditions do not improve in certain international markets, or if the North American markets slip back into a recession, our revenues and earnings for fiscal year 2010 could be negatively impacted. Future sales and earnings growth is also contingent upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner while continuing to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. The majority of our products are sold at price points ranging from $50 to $500. Although the current economic environment continues to negatively impact consumer discretionary spending and, ultimately, our net sales, we believe that the price/value relationship and the differentiation and innovation of our products, in comparison to those of our competitors, will allow us to maintain or grow our market share in those markets in which we compete. Historically, during recessionary periods, the strength of our balance sheet, our strong operating cash flow and the relative size of our business with our wholesale customers, in comparison to that of our competitors, have allowed us to weather recessionary periods for longer periods of time and generally resulted in market share gains to us. Our international operations are subject to many risks, including foreign currency. Generally, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against currencies of other countries in which we operate will reduce the translated amounts of sales and operating expenses of our subsidiaries, which results in a reduction of our consolidated operating income. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included therewith. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, allowance for bad debt, inventories, long lived asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and trade names, income taxes, warranty cost, hedge accounting, litigation reserves and stock based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns occur. 44 Table of Contents Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by a review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We reserve for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, increased inventory reserves may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than trade names whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (now codified within Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 360 Property, Plant and Equipment ("ASC 360"), in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our Company owned full price retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. We recorded impairment losses of $2.5 million, $1.9 million and $0.2 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Impairment of Goodwill and Trade Names. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its recorded value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its recorded value, no impairment loss is recognized. We evaluate trade names annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to its recorded value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we performed the required annual impairment tests and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. We recorded impairment losses of $2.7 million in fiscal 2009 related to our ZODIAC&reg; and OYZTERBAY&reg; trade names and $7.9 million in fiscal 2008 related to our MICHELE&reg; and ZODIAC trade names. No trade name impairment losses were recorded in 2007. Income Taxes. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (now codified within ASC 740, Income Taxes). Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding unusual or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the 45 Table of Contents quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate excluding the impact of infrequent or unusual items. Warranty Costs. Our FOSSIL watch products sold in the U.S. are covered by a limited warranty against defects in materials or workmanship for a period of 11 years from the date of purchase. RELIC&reg; watch products sold in the U.S. are covered by a comparable 12 year warranty while all other watch brands sold in the U.S. are covered by a comparable two year limited warranty. Generally, all of our watch products sold in Canada, Europe and Asia are covered by a comparable two year limited warranty. The Company determines its warranty liability using historical warranty repair experience. As changes in warranty costs are experienced, the warranty accrual is adjusted as necessary. The warranty liability recorded for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $6.4 million, $4.6 million and $3.5 million, respectively. Hedge Accounting. We operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We have entered into certain forward contracts to hedge the risk of foreign currency rate fluctuations. We have elected to apply the hedge accounting rules as required by SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (now codified within ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging), for these hedges. Our objective is to hedge the variability in forecasted cash flows due to the foreign currency risk primarily associated with certain anticipated inventory purchases. Changes in the fair value of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity, and are recognized in other income (expense) net in the period which approximates the time the hedged merchandise inventory is sold. Litigation Reserves. Estimated amounts for claims that are probable and can be reasonably estimated are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. The likelihood of a material change in these estimated reserves would be dependent on new claims as they may arise and the expected favorable or unfavorable outcome of each claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to new claims and existing claims and revise estimates as appropriate. As new claims arise, revisions in estimates of the potential liability could materially impact the results of operations and financial position. Stock Based Compensation. We account for stock based compensation in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (now codified within ASC 718 Compensation Stock Compensation). We utilize the Black Scholes model, which requires the input of subjective assumptions. These assumptions include estimating (a) the length of time employees will retain their vested stock options before exercising them ("expected term"), (b) the volatility of the Companys common stock price over the expected term, and (c) the number of options that will be forfeited. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of stock based compensation and, consequently, the related expense amounts recognized on the consolidated statements of operations. Newly Issued Accounting Standard Updates In February 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, ("FASB") issued ASU 2010 9 Subsequent Events (Topic 855) Amendments to Certain Recognition and Disclosure Requirements ("ASU 2010 9"). ASU 2010 9 amends disclosure requirements within Subtopic 855 10. An entity that is an SEC filer is not required to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. This change alleviates potential conflicts between Subtopic 855 10 and the SECs requirements. ASU 2010 9 is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2010 09 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. 46 Table of Contents In January 2010, FASB issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2010 6 Improving Disclosures about Fair Measurements ("ASU 2010 6"). ASU 2010 6 provides amendments to subtopic 820 10 that require separate disclosure of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and the presentation of separate information regarding purchases, sales, issuances and settlements for Level 3 fair value measurements. Additionally, ASU 2010 6 provides amendments to subtopic 820 10 that clarify existing disclosures about the level of disaggregation and inputs and valuation techniques. ASU 2010 6 is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after December 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2010 06 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In January 2010, FASB issued ASU 2010 2 Consolidation (Topic 810) Accounting and Reporting for Decreases in Ownership of a Subsidiary a Scope Clarification ("ASU 2010 2"). ASU 2010 2 addresses implementation issues related to the changes in ownership provisions in the Consolidation Overall Subtopic (Subtopic 810 10) of the ASC, originally issued as FASB Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements. Subtopic 810 10 establishes the accounting and reporting guidance for noncontrolling interests and changes in ownership interests of a subsidiary. An entity is required to deconsolidate a subsidiary when the entity ceases to have a controlling financial interest in the subsidiary. Upon deconsolidation of a subsidiary, an entity recognizes a gain or loss on the transaction and measures any retained investment in the subsidiary at fair value. The gain or loss includes any gain or loss associated with the difference between the fair value of the retained investment in the subsidiary and its carrying amount at the date the subsidiary is deconsolidated. In contrast, an entity is required to account for a decrease in ownership interest of a subsidiary that does not result in a change of control of the subsidiary as an equity transaction. ASU 2010 2 is effective for the Company starting January 3, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2010 2 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In December 2009, FASB issued ASU 2009 17 Consolidations (Topic 810) Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities ("ASU 2009 17"). ASU 2009 17 amends the FASB ASC for the issuance of FASB Statement No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). The amendments in ASU 2009 17 replace the quantitative based risks and rewards calculation for determining which enterprise, if any, has a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity with an approach focused on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance and (1) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or (2) the right to receive benefits from the entity. ASU 2009 17 also requires additional disclosures about an enterprises involvement in variable interest entities. ASU 2009 17 is effective for the Company starting January 3, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009 17 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In December 2009, FASB issued ASU 2009 16 Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860) Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets ("ASU 2009 16"). ASU 2009 16 amends the ASC for the issuance of FASB Statement No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140. The amendments in ASU 2009 16 eliminate the exceptions for qualifying special purpose entities from the consolidation guidance and the exception that permitted sale accounting for certain mortgage securitizations when a transferor has not surrendered control over the transferred financial assets. In addition, the amendments require enhanced disclosures about the risks that a transferor continues to be exposed to because of its continuing involvement in transferred financial assets. ASU 2009 16 is effective for the Company starting January 3, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009 16 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. 47 Table of Contents Newly Adopted Accounting Standard Codification In August 2009, FASB issued ASU 2009 5 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820) Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value ("ASU 2009 5"). ASU 2009 5 amends Subtopic 820 10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Overall, related to the fair value measurement of liabilities. ASU 2009 5 clarifies that in circumstances in which a quoted price in an active market for the identical liability is not available, a reporting entity is required to measure fair value. ASU 2009 5 was effective for the Company for interim and annual periods ending after October 3, 2009. The adoption of ASU 2009 5 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In August 2009, FASB issued ASU 2009 4 Accounting for Redeemable Equity Instruments an Amendment to Section 480 10 S99 ("ASU 2009 4"). ASU 2009 4 represents an SEC update to Section 480 10 S99, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. The adoption of this guidance within ASU 2009 4 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In June 2009, FASB issued SFAS No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles A Replacement of FASB Statement No. 162, (now codified within ASC 105, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("ASC 105")). ASC 105 establishes the codification as the single source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. All guidance contained in the codification carries an equal level of authority. Following this statement, FASB will not issue new standards in the form of statements, FASB Staff Positions, or Emerging Issues Task Force Abstracts. Instead, it will issue Accounting Standards Updates, which will serve only to: (1) update the codification; (2) provide background information about the guidance; and (3) provide the bases for conclusions on the change(s) in the codification. ASC 105 was effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The codification supersedes all existing non SEC accounting and reporting standards. The adoption of ASC 105 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In May 2009, FASB issued SFAS No. 165, Subsequent Events (now codified within ASC 855, Subsequent Events ("ASC 855")). This portion of ASC 855 establishes the general standards of accounting for, and disclosure of, events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. ASC 855 was effective for the Company on April 5, 2009. The adoption of ASC 855 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In April 2009, FASB issued Staff Position ("FSP") No. 115 2 and FSP 124 2, Recognition and Presentation of Other Than Temporary Impairments (now codified within ASC 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities ("ASC 320")). This portion of ASC 320 provides greater clarity about the credit and noncredit components of an other than temporary impairment event and more effectively communicates when an other than temporary impairment event has occurred. ASC 320 amends the other than temporary impairment model for debt securities. The impairment model for equity securities was not affected. Under ASC 320, an other than temporary impairment must be recognized through earnings if an investor has the intent to sell the debt security or if it is more likely than not that the investor will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. ASC 320 was effective for interim periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of ASC 320 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In April 2009, FASB issued FSP 157 4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly (now codified within ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC 820")). This portion of ASC 820 provides guidelines for making fair value measurements more consistent and provides additional authoritative guidance in determining whether a market is active or inactive and whether a transaction is distressed. ASC 820 is applied to all assets and liabilities (i.e., financial and 48 Table of Contents non financial) and requires enhanced disclosures. This standard was effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of ASC 820 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In April 2009, FASB issued FSP 107 1 and Accounting Principles Board 28 1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments (now codified within ASC 825, Financial Instruments ("ASC 825")). This portion of ASC 825 requires disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim financial statements as well as in annual financial statements. ASC 825 was effective for interim periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of ASC 825 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In June 2008, FASB issued Staff Position Emerging Issues Task Force 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (now codified within ASC 260, Earnings Per Share ("ASC 260")). Under this portion of ASC 260, unvested share based payment awards that contain non forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two class method. ASC 260 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years and requires retrospective application. The adoption of ASC 260 did not have a material impact on our earnings per share calculations. In April 2008, FASB issued FSP 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (now codified within ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other ("ASC 350")). This portion of ASC 350 provides guidance for determining the useful life of a recognized intangible asset and requires enhanced disclosures so that users of financial statements are able to assess the extent to which the expected future cash flows associated with the asset are affected by our intent and or ability to renew or extend the arrangement. ASC 350 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of ASC 350 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In March 2008, FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (now codified within ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging ("ASC 815")). This portion of ASC 815 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities aimed at improving the transparency of financial reporting. ASC 815 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of ASC 815 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Refer to Note 7, Derivatives and Risk Management, of this Form 10 K for the enhanced disclosures required by the adoption of ASC 815. In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (now codified within ASC 805, Business Combinations ("ASC 805")). This portion of ASC 805 establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date. ASC 805 significantly changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs and restructuring costs. In addition, under ASC 805, changes in an acquired entitys deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. ASC 805 will apply to any acquisitions we complete on or after December 15, 2008. The adoption of ASC 805 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial position. 49  Table of Contents In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51 (now codified within ASC 810, Consolidation ("ASC 810")). This portion of ASC 810 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which are recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method significantly changes the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders. The provisions of ASC 810 were applied to all noncontrolling interests prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively to all periods presented and have been disclosed as such in our condensed consolidated financial statements herein. ASC 810 became effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted ASC 810 effective January 4, 2009. Upon adoption of ASC 810, the Company has recognized noncontrolling interests as equity in the consolidated balance sheets and has reflected net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated net income. In September 2006, FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (now codified within ASC 820). This portion of ASC 820 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. Under ASC 820, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. This guidance within ASC 820 became effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007; however, the FASB provided a one year deferral for implementation of the standard for non recurring, non financial assets and liabilities. Our adoption of this guidance for non financial assets and non financial liabilities on January 4, 2009 did not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the fiscal years indicated: Fiscal Year 2009 Percentage Change from 2008 2008 Percentage Change from 2007 2007 Net sales 100.0 % (2.2 )% 100.0 % 10.5 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 45.4 (3.9 ) 46.2 6.0 48.2 Gross profit 54.6 (0.7 ) 53.8 14.7 51.8 Operating expenses 40.9 (1.9 ) 40.8 16.2 38.8 Operating income 13.7 2.8 13.0 10.3 13.0 Interest expense 0.0 (57.7 ) 0.0 (37.6 ) 0.0 Other income (expense) net 0.5 * (0.7 ) * 0.6 Income before income taxes 14.2 13.2 12.3 0.1 13.6 Income taxes 4.9 44.4 3.3 (20.0 ) 4.6 Net income 9.3 1.7 9.0 10.4 9.0 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 0.3 35.9 0.2 (28.1 ) 0.4 Net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. 9.0 % 0.8 8.8 % 12.0 8.6 % *not meaningful 50 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated net sales by segment, and components of certain segments, and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment, and components of certain segments, for the fiscal years indicated: Amounts in Millions Percentage of Total Fiscal Year 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 International wholesale: Europe $ 460.3 $ 530.0 $ 483.9 29.7 % 33.5 % 33.8 % Other 240.6 271.2 233.2 15.6 17.1 16.2 Total international wholesale 700.9 801.2 717.1 45.3 50.6 50.0 United States wholesale: Watch products 276.0 265.4 251.4 17.8 16.8 17.6 Other products 195.1 207.3 209.2 12.6 13.1 14.6 Total United States wholesale 471.1 472.7 460.6 30.4 29.9 32.2 Direct to consumer 376.1 309.3 255.3 24.3 19.5 17.8 Total net sales $ 1,548.1 $ 1,583.2 $ 1,433.0 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Net Sales. The following table illustrates by factor the total year over year percentage change in net sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Exchange Rates Organic Change Total Change Europe wholesale (3.7 )% (9.5 )% (13.2 )% Other international wholesale (1.2 ) (10.1 ) (11.3 ) United States wholesale (0.3 ) (0.3 ) Direct to consumer (1.1 ) 22.7 21.6 Consolidated (1.6 )% (0.6 )% (2.2 )% European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. The net sales decline in our European wholesale segment during fiscal year 2009 was primarily the result of sales volume declines in our core watch and jewelry businesses of 9.4% and 16.1%, respectively. We believe that weakening economies, and the resulting decrease in discretionary spending was the primary reason for our sales volume decreases in this segment. The declines had a bigger impact on our larger, more penetrated businesses. The decrease in our watch business was principally the result of FOSSIL and licensed brand watch sales volumes declining 6.7% and 9.3%, respectively, while the reduction in our jewelry sales volume was primarily led by a 21.1% decrease in Fossil jewelry. However, for brands and businesses recently introduced into our European wholesale segment and for those brands and businesses less penetrated, and thus continuing to expand into new doors, we experienced sales growth. For example, our recently introduced FOSSIL leathers business increased 18.5% during fiscal year 2009, with solid growth in both the womens and mens categories. We believe the expansion of our leathers business is partly attributable to the growth of our FOSSIL accessory store concept in this region, which is continuing to improve the brand awareness across all FOSSIL categories. Additionally, MICHAEL KORS&reg; and BURBERRY&reg; watch sales volumes rose 17.7% and 8.7%, respectively, primarily as a result of an increase in the penetration level with existing customers and new door growth. During fiscal year 2009, net sales were also favorably impacted by the introduction of DKNY&reg; jewelry, launched during the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Although we believe the current economic environment in Europe will 51 Table of Contents negatively impact our ability to substantially grow our sales in the near term, we believe we have maintained, if not increased, our market share and have positioned the Company to grow as the economic environment and discretionary spending improves. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Our other international wholesale segment includes sales from our Asia Pacific, Mexico and Canada subsidiaries, export sales from the U.S. and sales to our Spain joint venture. Net sales in our other international wholesale segment decreased during fiscal year 2009, principally a result of a $41.7 million decline in wholesale shipments to our third party distributors and our Spain joint venture. We attribute these sales declines to the challenging economic environment and credit restraints being experienced by a number of our third party distributors. Excluding shipments to third party distributors, sales from our Asia Pacific wholesale operations increased 12.8%, principally driven by further penetration in our newer markets of Korea, China and India as well as a 15.5% increase generated in our Australian wholesale business primarily related to sales volume growth in FOSSIL leather goods. Our wholesale operations in Canada and Mexico also experienced solid sales volume growth of 11.3% and 9.6%, respectively, during fiscal 2009. We believe our Asia Pacific distribution business continues to represent our largest opportunity for wholesale expansion. We believe the productivity of our concession model in this region allows us to gain market share in comparison to our competitors by essentially operating the space within our customers stores. This allows us to control merchandising, inventory levels, build out and branding decisions, and more importantly, the interaction with the end consumer. We believe our diverse global distribution network, including owned distribution in 23 countries, combined with our design and marketing capabilities, will allow us to continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands as we continue to increase brand awareness through the growth of our retail stores and introduction of new websites in many of the countries in which we operate. We also believe that the recent expansion of our businesses into new markets will allow us to experience higher levels of growth in our international wholesale segments in comparison to our U.S. wholesale segment. U.S. Wholesale Net Sales. We believe wholesale shipments of our watch and accessory offerings were negatively impacted by our wholesale partners significantly reducing their purchases during the first half of fiscal year 2009. We believe this was the result of our wholesale partners carrying higher levels of inventory into the beginning of the year due to the downturn in consumer spending during the fourth quarter of 2008. Nevertheless, net sales from our U.S. wholesale watch business increased 4.0% during fiscal year 2009, primarily a result of sales volume growth in licensed brands, mass market, RELIC and MICHELE watches, partially offset by a sales volume decrease in FOSSIL watches. Licensed watch sales rose 23.9%, principally driven by our MICHAEL KORS and to a lesser extent ADIDAS&reg; and MARC BY MARC JACOBS&reg; watches. MICHAEL KORS wholesale shipments increased 101.6% during fiscal year 2009, which we believe is due to the innovative design that is represented by the assortment and the expansion of points of sale for the brand. Sales volume growth in ADIDAS and MARC BY MARC JACOBS was primarily attributable to the expansion of points of sale. Our mass market watch shipments increased 13.0% in comparison to the prior year, which we attribute primarily to further penetration of our private label program with Wal Mart as well as consumers continuing to shop for value. RELIC watch sales rose 12.9% during fiscal year 2009, as a result of increased penetration in existing customers and new door growth. MICHELE sales volumes increased 5.5% during fiscal year 2009 which we attribute to consumers positive response to innovative new styles. Domestic wholesale shipments of FOSSIL watches declined 20.4% during fiscal 2009, which we believe resulted from retailers managing their inventories conservatively. FOSSIL is the most penetrated watch business within our portfolio in the U.S. wholesale segment and thereby more significantly impacted by comparable stores sales within the department store channel. However, new FOSSIL styles introduced into department stores during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 experienced 52 Table of Contents strong sell through during the holiday season, resulting in the overall trend improving. We believe this improving trend will result in increased wholesale shipments during the first half of fiscal 2010. Wholesale shipments from our accessories business in the U.S., which primarily includes handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, jewelry and cold weather accessories, decreased 5.9% during fiscal year 2009. This decrease is principally attributable to sales volume declines in FOSSIL womens handbags, small leather goods, and eyewear, partially offset by sales volume increases in FOSSIL accessory jewelry and the launch of our FOSSIL footwear line during fiscal 2009. We primarily attribute the sales volume declines in womens handbags, small leather goods and eyewear of 10.4%, 17.8% and 22.7%, respectively, to the challenging economic environment resulting in decreased consumer demand and our wholesale partners reducing inventory levels during the first nine months of fiscal year 2009. Additionally, eyewear sales volume was unfavorably impacted by certain of our customers consolidating vendors in their sunglass departments and discontinuing the RELIC mens eyewear line. FOSSIL accessory jewelry net sales increased 26.1% as a result of retail door growth while the launch of our FOSSIL footwear line contributed $2.6 million to the domestic wholesale business during fiscal 2009. We significantly improved the sales trend in our domestic accessories business during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and expect this favorable momentum to continue into fiscal 2010. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Direct to consumer net sales increased 22.7% during fiscal year 2009, principally the result of a 19.4% increase in the average number of stores open during the year and comparable store sales increases of 7.8%. Our direct to consumer segment was also favorably impacted by 11.4% growth in e commerce sales primarily driven by our U.S. based e commerce businesses. We believe this growth is partially attributable to system upgrades for our U.S. website during the second half of fiscal 2009. Additionally, an increase in the number of catalogs mailed in fiscal 2009 and an increase in the amount of spending during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 in on line search advertising also benefited e commerce sales. These initiatives led to an increased number of visitors to the site resulting in higher levels of sales. Our e commerce and catalog initiatives, in addition to the favorable consumer reaction to new product innovation, also benefited our comparable store sales in our U.S. retail stores. Comparable store sales related to our full price accessory concept, which is our growth engine in this segment, increased by 5.9% globally while our global outlet stores experienced comparable store sales growth of 9.7% during fiscal year 2009. We ended fiscal year 2009 with 354 stores, including 218 full price accessory stores, 126 of which are located outside the U.S., 90 outlet locations, including 16 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores and 13 multi brand stores. This compares to 324 stores at the end of fiscal 2008, which included 191 full price accessory stores, 104 located outside the U.S., 82 outlet locations, including 8 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores and 18 multi branded stores. During fiscal year 2009, we opened 42 new stores, including 29 full price accessory stores, and closed 12 stores. During fiscal 2010, we plan to open approximately 50 stores, concentrating on our full price accessory concept outside of the U.S. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased by 0.7% to $844.9 million in fiscal year 2009, with gross profit margin expanding by 80 basis points to 54.6% compared to 53.8% in the prior fiscal year. The gross profit margin improvement was due primarily to an increase in the sales mix of direct to consumer segment sales and a reduction in sales mix of lower margin shipments to third party distributors. The increase in gross profit margin was partially offset by a stronger U.S. dollar, which unfavorably impacted gross profit margin by approximately 80 basis points during fiscal year 2009 and a 53 Table of Contents reduction in the sales mix attributable to our European wholesale segment, which historically generates gross profit margin in excess of our consolidated gross profit margin. In comparison to fiscal 2008, our fiscal 2009 gross profit margin was not impacted by any significant changes in component or labor costs related to the production of our watch and accessory offerings. Our consolidated gross profit margin is impacted by our diversified business model that includes but is not limited to: (i) a significant number of product categories we distribute, (ii) the multiple brands we offer within several product categories, (iii) the geographical presence of our businesses, and (iv) the different distribution channels we sell to or through. The components of this diversified business model produce varying ranges of gross profit margin. Generally, on an historical basis, our fashion branded watch, jewelry and sunglass offerings produce higher gross profit margins than our leather goods categories. In addition, in most product categories that we offer, brands with higher retail price points generally produce higher gross profit margins compared to those of lower retail priced brands. From a segment standpoint, our direct to consumer business generally produces the highest gross profit margin as a result of these sales being direct to the ultimate consumer. Gross profit margins related to sales in our international wholesale segment are historically lower than our direct to consumer segment, but historically higher than our U. S. wholesale segment primarily due to the following factors: (i) overall retail prices for comparable product sold in the U.S. are generally higher in our international businesses as a result of less competitive fashion and designer brands being offered in these markets; (ii) the product sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our U. S. wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of watches and jewelry that generally produce higher gross profit margins than leather goods; and (iii) the watch sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our U. S. wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of higher priced licensed brands. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses decreased $12.2 million to $633.2 million in fiscal year 2009 in comparison to the prior fiscal year and as a percentage of net sales, increased 10 basis points to 40.9% compared to 40.8% in fiscal year 2008. Fiscal year 2009 included a reduction of approximately $11.5 million related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses due to an average stronger U.S. dollar on a comparable year over year basis. On a constant dollar basis, operating expenses for fiscal year 2009 included net decreases in our wholesale segments and corporate costs of $43.1 million, partially offset by an increase of $42.5 million in our direct to consumer segment. The decrease in operating expenses associated with our wholesale segments were primarily related to lower compensation cost, as a result of a reduction of workforce in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and the freeze of merit increases and certain benefit costs. Additionally, fiscal 2009 wholesale operating expenses benefited from reduced levels of advertising expense and a net reduction of approximately $5.2 million of non cash charges related to the write down of certain fixed asset and intangible asset impairments when compared to fiscal year 2008. Fiscal year 2009 operating expenses also benefited from reductions in certain variable expenses as a result of a reduction in wholesale sales. The increase in our direct to consumer operating expenses was primarily related to the impact of the direct operating costs associated with a net 30 new stores opened during fiscal year 2009 and expenses associated with the expansion of our e commerce and catalog operations. For fiscal year 2010, we expect our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales to increase due to new retail door growth, the full year operating expense impact of the net 30 stores opened during fiscal year 2009 and the normalization of compensation and other expenses that had been reduced in response to the economic environment during fiscal year 2009. 54  Table of Contents The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and as a percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. In Millions 2009 2008 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 146.0 32 % $ 170.5 32 % Other international wholesale 76.7 32 75.7 28 United States wholesale 109.1 23 134.2 28 Direct to consumer 222.6 59 183.4 59 Corporate 78.8 81.6 Total $ 633.2 41 % $ 645.4 41 % Operating Income. Operating income increased by 2.8% to $211.6 million in fiscal year 2009 compared to $205.8 million in fiscal year 2008. Operating income margin increased by 70 basis points to 13.7% of net sales compared to 13.0% in the prior fiscal year, principally as a result of gross margin expansion. Operating income included approximately $15.4 million of net currency losses in fiscal year 2009 related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into U.S. dollars. Other Income (Expense) Net. Other income (expense) net primarily reflects interest income from investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses and equity in the earnings or losses of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During fiscal year 2009, other income (expense) net benefited by approximately $19.5 million as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily driven by net foreign currency transaction gains in comparison to net losses in the prior fiscal year. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 34.4% during fiscal year 2009, compared to 27.0% in fiscal year 2008. The prior fiscal years income tax expense was favorably impacted by the recognition of previously unrecognized income tax benefits in connection with the completion of prior year income tax audits. For fiscal year 2010, we estimate our effective tax rate will approximate 36 to 37%, excluding any discrete events. Net Income. Fiscal year 2009 net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. increased 0.8% to $139.2 million, or $2.07 per diluted share, in comparison to $138.1 million, or $2.02 per diluted share, in the prior fiscal year. Fiscal year 2009 earnings per diluted share of $2.07 included an approximate $0.07 diluted earnings per share benefit related to currency. Fiscal year 2008 diluted earnings per share included a benefit of approximately $0.20 per diluted share as a result of the reduction of certain tax reserves recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Net Sales. The following table illustrates by factor the total year over year percentage change in net sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Exchange Rates Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 2.7 % 6.8 % 9.5 % Other international wholesale 2.3 14.0 16.3 United States wholesale 2.6 2.6 Direct to consumer (1.1 ) 22.3 21.2 Consolidated 1.1 % 9.4 % 10.5 % 55 Table of Contents European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Shipments from our European wholesale segment expanded in fiscal year 2008 as a result of sales volume growth in licensed brand watches, FOSSIL jewelry and watches, and to a lesser extent, leather goods and licensed brand jewelry. We experienced growth across most of our major licensed brand watch businesses, with EMPORIO ARMANI&reg;, MICHAEL KORS and DIESEL&reg; increasing 5.5%, 101.4% and 11.0% in fiscal year 2008, respectively. These sales increases were partially offset by a sales volume decline in DKNY watches of 8.6% that we attribute to a moderating consumer response to core styles within the assortment. Whereas EMPORIO ARMANI and DIESEL watches have been distributed in our European wholesale segment for some time, the growth in our MICHAEL KORS watch business was primarily related to the introduction of this brand in fiscal 2007 and continued door growth throughout fiscal 2008. FOSSIL jewelry, watch and leather sales rose 12.9%, 5.5% and 27.1% in fiscal year 2008, respectively. We believe this growth was the result of consumers positive response to our repositioning of the brand towards a unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint as well as increased brand awareness generated by the accelerated growth in our European retail store base. The bulk of our leather business has historically been distributed through the U.S. department store channel. However, we were able to expand the presence of this business in Europe during fiscal 2008 through some of our wholesale partners based upon the visibility and success of this product category within our own retail stores. Licensed brand jewelry sales rose primarily as a result of the introduction of DKNY jewelry that commenced in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. DKNY jewelry contributed $4.6 million to sales during fiscal year 2008, which was partially offset by a planned decrease of 25.7% in ARMANI jewelry as we were updating the line to stainless steel. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. The increase in wholesale shipments from our other international segment in fiscal year 2008 was the result of sales volume growth from our licensed brand and FOSSIL watches as well as increased penetration of our jewelry businesses. Increased licensed brand watch net sales were primarily attributable to EMPORIO ARMANI, DIESEL and MICHAEL KORS increasing 20.8%, 17.3% and 131.0%, respectively in fiscal year 2008, partially offset by a 10.1% decrease in DKNY. The decrease in our DKNY watch business was for similar reasons as explained above for our European wholesale segment. In fiscal 2008, the penetration levels of most of our businesses distributed in this region were much lower than those levels experienced in our U.S. and European wholesale markets. As a result, our growth in the other international segment in fiscal 2008 was primarily related to market share expansion in existing doors and growth in new doors as well as the recent expansion of our businesses into China, India and Korea. Additionally, introduction of new businesses, including MICHAEL KORS watches and OYZTERBAY, a regionally recognized jewelry brand in India acquired in the first half of fiscal 2008, and DKNY jewelry contributed a combined $8.3 million in net sales during fiscal year 2008. U.S. Wholesale Net Sales. During fiscal year 2008, the increase in wholesale watch shipments in the U.S. was primarily the result of sales volume growth in licensed brand and MICHELE watches, partially offset by a sales volume decrease in FOSSIL watches. Licensed brand watch sales included a 108.4% increase from MICHAEL KORS and a 33.9% increase from EMPORIO ARMANI. We attribute the increases for both of these businesses to further penetration of the lines in the department store channel and new doors being added for MICHAEL KORS. These increases were partially offset by DKNY watches, which experienced a 25.3% net sales volume decline. The decrease in our DKNY watch business was for similar reasons as explained above for our European wholesale segment. MICHELE watch sales volume rose 20.8% during fiscal year 2008, primarily as a result of a significant reduction in the level of returns experienced during the year as compared to the prior fiscal year. The increased level of returns in fiscal 2007 was primarily driven by an accommodation made to ship more new styles and by the manner in which product was shipped. Watch heads and straps were shipped assembled together as a complete watch rather than being shipped separately. As a result, end of 56 Table of Contents season fashion watches had to be returned to change the straps to current fashion colors. During fiscal 2008, the FOSSIL watch business represented the highest penetration level of our fashion watch brands within the moderate department store environment. As a result, its growth was mostly predicated on the overall performance of the moderate department store channel. We believe the 6.1% net sales decline in FOSSIL watches to be representative of the deteriorating economic conditions in the U.S. throughout 2008, which resulted in lower traffic levels in department stores and an overall decline in department store sales during 2008. Wholesale shipments from our other products category in the U.S., decreased 0.9% during fiscal year 2008. This decrease is attributable to sales volume declines in FOSSIL mens and womens leather categories of 24.7% and 2.9%, respectively, and a decrease in RELIC eyewear net sales of 26.5%. These declines were mostly offset by a 28.4% increase in RELIC womens handbags and a 138.6% increase in FOSSIL accessory jewelry that was introduced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. The sales volume decreases in our FOSSIL mens and womens leather categories were indicative of a weak, highly promotional retail environment that resulted in increased levels of markdown contributions within the U.S. moderate department store channel that negatively impacted our sales. Sales volume decreases in RELIC eyewear were principally related to a reduction in market share due to a contraction in the number of displays within one of our major customers in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. However, our RELIC handbag line continued to be a top performer within its distribution channel in fiscal year 2008. We believe this business benefited from its relative value proposition and consumers selectively shopping for lower priced goods as the economy softened throughout 2008. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Net sales from our direct to consumer segment increased 22.3% during fiscal year 2008, principally the result of a 28.5% increase in the average number of stores open during the year and comparable store sales increases of 2.3%. Additionally, contributing to our growth in the direct to consumer segment were our e commerce businesses, which grew 22.9% during fiscal year 2008. This growth was attributable to increased sales from our German website that was launched during the second half of 2007, and to a lesser extent, a 6.5% increase in our U.S. based e commerce business. Comparable store sales related to our full price accessory concept, which was our growth engine in this segment, increased by 2.1% globally while our global outlet stores experienced comparable store sales growth of 5.8% during fiscal year 2008. We ended fiscal year 2008 with 324 stores, including 191 full price accessory stores, 104 of which were located outside the U.S., 82 outlet locations, including 8 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores and 18 multi brand stores. This compares to 244 stores at the end of fiscal 2007, which included 113 full price accessory stores, 55 located outside the U.S., 80 outlet locations, including 6 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores and 18 multi branded stores. During fiscal year 2008, we opened 84 new stores, including 79 full price accessory stores, and closed 4 stores. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by 14.7% to $851.2 million in fiscal year 2008, with gross profit margin expanding by 200 basis points to 53.8% compared to 51.8% in the prior fiscal year. The gross profit margin improvement was principally the result of an increase in the sales mix of our higher margin direct to consumer and international wholesale segments and an approximate 40 basis point improvement relating to the average weaker U.S. dollar in comparison to fiscal year 2007. Gross profit margin also improved as a result of our internal initiative, begun in late 2007, to lower our product cost on newly developed styles. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses of $645.4 million represented an increase of $89.8 million in comparison to the prior fiscal year and as a percentage of sales increased to 40.8% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to 38.8% in the prior fiscal year. Fiscal year 2008 operating expenses included approximately $7.3 million related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses due to 57 Table of Contents an average weaker U.S. dollar on a comparable year over year basis and approximately $10.6 million of non cash charges related to the write down of certain other than temporary investment, fixed asset, and intangible asset impairments. Fiscal year 2007 operating expenses included approximately $13.1 million related to our completed equity grant review. Additionally, the increase in operating expenses in fiscal year 2008 included an approximate $51 million increase in our direct to consumer segment and an approximate $36 million increase related to our wholesale businesses. The increase in our direct to consumer operating expenses primarily related to the impact of the direct operating costs associated with a net 80 new stores opened during fiscal year 2008, the expansion of our back office infrastructure to support a significantly higher number of stores opened globally and expenses associated with the expansion of our e commerce and catalog operations. Operating expenses as a percentage of sales, excluding the impact of asset impairment charges and currency in fiscal year 2008 and expenses associated with our completed equity grant review in fiscal year 2007, increased 220 basis points compared to fiscal year 2007. Approximately $5 million, or 35 basis points, of this increase was due to the higher mix of direct to consumer expenses which partially offset the benefit of a higher gross margin resulting from increased direct to consumer sales. An additional $29.0 million in expenses, or 185 basis points, was related to our expenses growing at a slightly higher rate than sales, primarily due to lower fourth quarter sales than originally projected and the expansion of our retail back office infrastructure during fiscal year 2008. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated: In Millions 2008 2007 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 170.5 32 % $ 144.2 30 % Other international wholesale 75.7 28 64.4 28 United States wholesale 134.2 28 124.5 27 Direct to consumer 183.4 59 131.6 52 Corporate 81.6 90.8 Total $ 645.4 41 % $ 555.5 39 % Operating Income. Operating income increased 10.3% to $205.8 million in fiscal year 2008, compared to $186.5 million in fiscal year 2007. Operating income margin remained unchanged at 13.0% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to the prior fiscal year, as increased gross profit margin was offset by an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales. Operating income included approximately $6.7 million of net currency gains in fiscal year 2008 related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into U. S. dollars. Other Income (Expense) Net. During fiscal year 2008, other income (expense) net increased unfavorably by approximately $19.3 million as compared to fiscal year 2007, primarily driven by increased foreign currency transaction losses partially offset by forward contract gains. As the U.S. dollar strengthened during the second half of fiscal year 2008, we recognized currency losses related to foreign currency payable balances denominated in U.S. dollars. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate, attributable to Fossil, Inc. was 27.0% during fiscal year 2008 compared to 33.7% in fiscal year 2007. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2008 was primarily attributable to the recognition of previously unrecognized income tax benefits in connection with the completion of prior year income tax audits. 58 Table of Contents Net Income. Fiscal year 2008 net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. increased 12.0% to $138.1 million, or $2.02 per diluted share, in comparison to $123.3 million, or $1.75 per diluted share, in the prior year period. The fiscal year 2008 earnings per diluted share of $2.02 included an approximate $0.20 per diluted share benefit from a lower effective tax rate partially offset by an unfavorable $0.13 per diluted share impact related to currency and a $0.11 per diluted share charge for impairment. The fiscal year 2007 earnings per share of $1.75 included an approximate $0.13 per diluted share charge related to expenses associated with the Companys completed equity grant review. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. We believe that, to the extent inflation affects our costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our business operations have not required substantial cash during the first quarter of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame as we increase inventory levels in advance of the holiday season. Our quarterly cash requirements are also impacted by the number of new stores we open. Our cash and cash equivalent balances as of the end of fiscal year 2009 increased to $405.2 million in comparison to $172.0 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. Of the $405.2 million of cash and cash equivalents at fiscal year end 2009, $270.4 million was held in banks outside the U.S. The increase in our cash holdings is primarily the result of $266.0 million of net cash generated from operating activities partially offset by $38.3 million of cash used in investing activities. Cash flows generated from operating activities were principally driven by net income of $144.3 million, non cash items of approximately $57.6 million and $44.6 million related to decreased inventory balances. Cash used in investing activities was primarily related to fixed asset additions of $37.7 million. Accounts receivable at the end of fiscal year 2009 increased by 1.9% to $209.8 million compared to $206.0 million at the end of fiscal year 2008, primarily due to an increase in wholesale shipments during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 versus the comparable prior year period. Average days sales outstanding for our wholesale segments decreased to 54 days in fiscal year 2009 from 58 days in the prior fiscal year, primarily driven by a reduction in sales mix of internationally based sales that generally result in longer collection cycles than those experienced in the U.S. Inventory at fiscal year end 2009 was $245.7 million, representing a decrease of 15.8% from the 2008 fiscal year end balance of $292.0 million. Our inventory decline for fiscal 2009 is well above our net sales decline of 2.2% At the end of fiscal year 2009, we had working capital of $701.2 million compared to $556.5 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. We had approximately $8.1 million of total indebtedness at the end of fiscal 2009, consisting of $3.6 million of short term borrowings and $4.5 million of long term debt. This compares to total indebtedness of $10.0 million in fiscal 2008, consisting of $5.3 million of outstanding short term borrowings and $4.7 million of long term debt. The majority of our short term borrowings are attributable to our Japan subsidiary, which ended fiscal 2009 with short term borrowings of approximately $3.2 million, compared to $4.9 million at the end of fiscal 2008. These borrowings are under two separate 150 million Yen short term credit facilities (approximately $3.2 million U.S. dollars based upon the fiscal year end 2009 Yen exchange rate to the U.S. dollar), one bearing interest at the short term prime rate (1.475% at fiscal year end 2009) and one bearing interest based upon the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate (1.475% as of fiscal year end 2009). 59 Table of Contents Borrowings under these Japanese facilities are primarily related to working capital needs and are due in March 2010. At the end of fiscal year 2009, the majority of our long term debt is attributable to our wholly owned subsidiary, Fossil Group Europe, Gmbh, ("FGE"). FGE had outstanding long term borrowings in the form of a term note of $3.6 million at the end of fiscal year 2009 compared to approximately $3.5 million at the end of fiscal year 2008. This note has a variable interest term with an interest rate of 2.0% at year end fiscal 2009 with interest payments due quarterly. This note requires minimum principal payments of 100,000 Swiss Francs each year with no stated maturity and no penalties for early termination. At the end of fiscal year 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings under our $100 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility ("the Revolver") with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ("Wells Fargo"). Amounts outstanding under the Revolver bear interest at our option of (i) the lesser of (a) the higher of the prime rate (3.25% at fiscal year end 2009) plus 1.5% or 3% or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law or (ii) the London Interbank Offer Rate, ("LIBOR"), base rate (0.23% at fiscal year end 2009) plus one half percent. The Revolver is secured by 65% of the issued and outstanding shares of certain of our subsidiaries pursuant to a Stock Pledge Agreement and requires the maintenance of net worth, quarterly income, working capital and certain financial ratios. The Revolver has an expiration date in November 2010 and allows for an increase from $100 million to $200 million upon our request and approval of Wells Fargo. Available borrowings under our Revolver are reduced by $32.2 million of open letters of credit and by amounts outstanding under foreign based borrowing arrangements. At the end of fiscal year 2009, we had available borrowings of approximately $67.8 million under the Revolver and we were in compliance with all debt covenants. During fiscal year 2010, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $55 million to $65 million principally to support new company owned retail store openings, store remodels, the costs associated with the continued roll out of a SAP point of sale system for our company owned retail stores which began in fiscal 2009 and other general maintenance capital requirements. We believe that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand and, if necessary, amounts available under our Revolver will be sufficient to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Debt obligations(1) $ 6,908 $ 3,321 $ 194 $ 194 $ 3,199 Minimum royalty payments(2) 224,029 60,363 107,881 55,785 Capital lease obligations 1,277 308 598 371 Operating lease obligations 398,090 63,712 108,839 88,318 137,221 Purchase obligations(3) 85,089 84,799 290 Uncertain tax positions(4) 17,018 17,018 Total contractual cash obligations $ 732,411 $ 229,521 $ 217,802 $ 144,668 $ 140,420 (1)Consists of borrowings in Japan and Switzerland, excluding contractual interest payments that are variable in nature. (2)Consists primarily of exclusive licenses to manufacture watches and jewelry under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. 60 Table of Contents (3)Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. (4)Management has only included its current ASC 740 liability in the table above. Long term amounts of $17.0 million have been excluded because the payment timing cannot be reasonably estimated. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Certain line items presented in the tables below, when aggregated, may not agree with the corresponding line items on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 due to rounding. Fiscal Year 2009 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 323,027 $ 315,865 $ 381,362 $ 527,839 Gross profit 169,379 167,182 210,737 297,552 Operating expenses 145,576 144,706 153,373 189,568 Operating income 23,803 22,476 57,364 107,984 Income before income taxes 28,423 26,957 55,654 108,864 Provision for income taxes 9,927 9,709 19,109 36,859 Net income 18,496 17,248 36,545 72,005 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 1,176 625 1,270 2,034 Net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. 17,320 16,623 35,275 69,971 Earnings per share: Basic 0.26 0.25 0.53 1.05 Diluted 0.26 0.25 0.52 1.03 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 52.4 % 52.9 % 55.3 % 56.4 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 45.1 % 45.8 % 40.2 % 35.9 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 7.4 % 7.1 % 15.0 % 20.5 % 61 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2008 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 356,184 $ 353,191 $ 409,760 $ 464,106 Gross profit 194,251 190,339 224,177 242,384 Operating expenses 145,136 155,378 160,439 184,427 Operating income 49,115 34,961 63,738 57,957 Income before income taxes 49,039 33,654 60,967 50,544 Provision for income taxes 17,888 7,147 23,447 3,869 Net income 31,151 26,507 37,520 46,675 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 934 1,370 1,049 403 Net income attributable to Fossil, Inc 30,217 25,137 36,471 46,272 Earnings per share: Basic 0.44 0.37 0.54 0.70 Diluted 0.43 0.36 0.54 0.69 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 54.5 % 53.9 % 54.7 % 52.2 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 40.7 % 44.0 % 39.2 % 39.7 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 13.8 % 9.9 % 15.6 % 12.5 % While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the "back to school" and Christmas season, have historically generated a significant portion of our annual operating income. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter of the following year as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. We currently believe that our inventory levels for certain of our customers in the U.S. at the end of fiscal year 2009 were below their targeted inventory levels. As we continue to grow our retail store base and e commerce businesses, sales from our direct to consumer segment increase as a percentage of the total sales mix, benefiting the Companys profitability in the fourth quarter, generally at the expense of the first and second quarters when, due to seasonality, it is more difficult to leverage direct to consumer expenses against direct to consumer sales. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro and, to a lesser extent, the British Pound, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Mexican Peso as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of operating practices to manage these market risks relative to foreign currency exchange rate changes and, where deemed appropriate, utilize foreign currency forward contracts. These operating practices include, among others, our ability to convert foreign currency into U.S. dollars at spot rates and to maintain U.S. dollar pricing relative to sales of our products to certain distributors located outside the U.S. The use of foreign currency forward contracts allows us to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative 62 Table of Contents instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in fiscal year 2009 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At January 2, 2010, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 84.7 million Euro for approximately $121.5 million, expiring through December 2010, 2.0 billion Japanese Yen for approximately $21.8 million, expiring through June 2011, 3.0 million British Pounds for approximately $4.7 million, expiring through June 2010, 7.0 million Australian Dollars for approximately $5.8 million, expiring through June 2010, 31.4 million Mexican Pesos for approximately $2.4 million, expiring through June 2010 and 10.5 million Canadian Dollars for approximately $10.0 million, expiring through January 2011. If we were to settle our Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Australian Dollar, Mexican Peso and Canadian Dollar based contracts at fiscal year end 2009, the net result would be a net loss of approximately $17,000, net of taxes. At fiscal year end 2009, a 10% unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar strengthening against foreign currencies to which we have balance sheet transactional exposures would have reduced net pre tax income by $9.6 million. The translation of the balance sheets of our foreign based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2009, a 10% unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar strengthening against the foreign currencies to which we have exposure would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $38.5 million. In the view of management, these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 63  Table of Contents  
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary We are a global design, marketing and distribution company that specializes in consumer fashion accessories. Our principal offerings include an extensive line of mens and womens fashion watches and jewelry, handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, cold weather accessories, footwear and apparel. In the watch and jewelry product category, we have a diverse portfolio of globally recognized owned and licensed brand names under which our products are marketed. Our products are distributed globally through various distribution channels including wholesale in countries where we have a physical presence, direct to the consumer through our retail stores and commercial websites and through third party distributors in countries where we do not maintain a physical presence. Our products are offered at varying price points to service the needs of our customers, whether they are value conscious or luxury oriented. Based on our extensive range of accessory products, brands, distribution channels and price points, we are able to target style conscious consumers across a wide age spectrum on a global basis. Domestically, we sell our products through a diversified distribution network that includes department stores, specialty retail locations, specialty watch and jewelry stores, owned retail and factory outlet stores, mass market stores and through our FOSSIL&reg; catalogs and website. Our wholesale customer base includes, among others, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Saks Fifth Avenue, Macys, Dillards, JCPenney, Kohls, Sears, Wal Mart and Target. We also sell our products in the U.S. through a network of company owned stores that included 127 retail stores located in premier retail sites and 74 outlet stores located in major outlet malls as of January 2, 2010. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of our FOSSIL brand products through our catalogs and on our website, www.fossil.com, as well as proprietary and licensed watch and jewelry brands through other managed and affiliated websites. Internationally, our products are sold to department stores, specialty retail stores and specialty watch and jewelry stores in over 100 countries worldwide through 23 company owned foreign sales subsidiaries and through a network of 59 independent distributors. During fiscal year 2009, approximately 8.2% of our net sales were generated from sales to independent distributors. Our products are distributed in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Central and South America, Canada, the Caribbean, Mexico, and the Middle East. Our products are offered on airlines, cruise ships and in international company owned retail stores, which included 126 accessory retail stores, 11 multi brand stores and 16 outlet stores in select international markets as of January 2, 2010. Our products are also sold through licensed and franchised FOSSIL retail stores and kiosks in certain international markets. In addition, we offer an extensive collection of our FOSSIL brand products on our websites in Australia, www.fossilaustralia.com.au, Germany, www.fossil.de, the United Kingdom, www.fossil.co.uk, and Singapore, www.fossilsingapore.com.sg. Our business is subject to global economic cycles and retail industry conditions. Purchases of discretionary fashion accessories, such as our watches, handbags, sunglasses and other products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is low and consumers are hesitant to use available credit. The global economic environment began to deteriorate in the second half of fiscal year 2008. The declining values in real estate, reduced credit lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, increases in unemployment levels and significant declines and volatility in the global financial markets have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This has affected our business, as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. In North America, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing through most of fiscal year 2009, we experienced a significant slowdown in customer traffic and a highly promotional environment. These same conditions spread to many international markets during 2009. While we have experienced a 43 Table of Contents slight recovery in our North American market during the fourth quarter of 2009, if economic conditions do not improve in certain international markets, or if the North American markets slip back into a recession, our revenues and earnings for fiscal year 2010 could be negatively impacted. Future sales and earnings growth is also contingent upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner while continuing to develop innovative products in the respective markets in which we compete. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. The majority of our products are sold at price points ranging from $50 to $500. Although the current economic environment continues to negatively impact consumer discretionary spending and, ultimately, our net sales, we believe that the price/value relationship and the differentiation and innovation of our products, in comparison to those of our competitors, will allow us to maintain or grow our market share in those markets in which we compete. Historically, during recessionary periods, the strength of our balance sheet, our strong operating cash flow and the relative size of our business with our wholesale customers, in comparison to that of our competitors, have allowed us to weather recessionary periods for longer periods of time and generally resulted in market share gains to us. Our international operations are subject to many risks, including foreign currency. Generally, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against currencies of other countries in which we operate will reduce the translated amounts of sales and operating expenses of our subsidiaries, which results in a reduction of our consolidated operating income. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included therewith. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to product returns, allowance for bad debt, inventories, long lived asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and trade names, income taxes, warranty cost, hedge accounting, litigation reserves and stock based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies require the most significant estimates and judgments. Product Returns. We accept limited returns and will request that a customer return a product if we feel the customer has an excess of any style that we have identified as being a poor performer for that customer or geographic location. We continually monitor returns and maintain a provision for estimated returns based upon historical experience and any specific issues identified. While returns have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past. In the event that our products are performing poorly in the retail market and or we experience product damages or defects at a rate significantly higher than our historical rate, the resulting credit returns could have an adverse impact on the operating results for the period or periods in which such returns occur. 44 Table of Contents Bad Debt. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and the customers current credit worthiness, as determined by a review of their current credit information. We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon historical experience and any specific customer collection issues identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, future credit losses may differ from those experienced in the past. Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost, including any applicable duty and freight charges, or market. We reserve for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the average cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, increased inventory reserves may be required. Long lived Asset Impairment. We test for asset impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles other than trade names whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset might not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. We apply Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (now codified within Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 360 Property, Plant and Equipment ("ASC 360"), in order to determine whether or not an asset is impaired. When undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated through the operations of our Company owned full price retail stores are less than the carrying value of the underlying assets, impairment losses are recorded in selling and distribution expenses. Should actual results or market conditions differ from those anticipated, additional losses may be recorded. We recorded impairment losses of $2.5 million, $1.9 million and $0.2 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Impairment of Goodwill and Trade Names. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its recorded value. The fair value of our reporting units is estimated using market comparable information. Based on the analysis, if the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its recorded value, no impairment loss is recognized. We evaluate trade names annually by comparing the fair value of the asset to its recorded value. The fair value of the asset is estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies. In the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we performed the required annual impairment tests and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. We recorded impairment losses of $2.7 million in fiscal 2009 related to our ZODIAC&reg; and OYZTERBAY&reg; trade names and $7.9 million in fiscal 2008 related to our MICHELE&reg; and ZODIAC trade names. No trade name impairment losses were recorded in 2007. Income Taxes. We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (now codified within ASC 740, Income Taxes). Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding unusual or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the 45 Table of Contents quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate excluding the impact of infrequent or unusual items. Warranty Costs. Our FOSSIL watch products sold in the U.S. are covered by a limited warranty against defects in materials or workmanship for a period of 11 years from the date of purchase. RELIC&reg; watch products sold in the U.S. are covered by a comparable 12 year warranty while all other watch brands sold in the U.S. are covered by a comparable two year limited warranty. Generally, all of our watch products sold in Canada, Europe and Asia are covered by a comparable two year limited warranty. The Company determines its warranty liability using historical warranty repair experience. As changes in warranty costs are experienced, the warranty accrual is adjusted as necessary. The warranty liability recorded for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $6.4 million, $4.6 million and $3.5 million, respectively. Hedge Accounting. We operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We have entered into certain forward contracts to hedge the risk of foreign currency rate fluctuations. We have elected to apply the hedge accounting rules as required by SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (now codified within ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging), for these hedges. Our objective is to hedge the variability in forecasted cash flows due to the foreign currency risk primarily associated with certain anticipated inventory purchases. Changes in the fair value of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity, and are recognized in other income (expense) net in the period which approximates the time the hedged merchandise inventory is sold. Litigation Reserves. Estimated amounts for claims that are probable and can be reasonably estimated are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. The likelihood of a material change in these estimated reserves would be dependent on new claims as they may arise and the expected favorable or unfavorable outcome of each claim. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to new claims and existing claims and revise estimates as appropriate. As new claims arise, revisions in estimates of the potential liability could materially impact the results of operations and financial position. Stock Based Compensation. We account for stock based compensation in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (now codified within ASC 718 Compensation Stock Compensation). We utilize the Black Scholes model, which requires the input of subjective assumptions. These assumptions include estimating (a) the length of time employees will retain their vested stock options before exercising them ("expected term"), (b) the volatility of the Companys common stock price over the expected term, and (c) the number of options that will be forfeited. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of stock based compensation and, consequently, the related expense amounts recognized on the consolidated statements of operations. Newly Issued Accounting Standard Updates In February 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, ("FASB") issued ASU 2010 9 Subsequent Events (Topic 855) Amendments to Certain Recognition and Disclosure Requirements ("ASU 2010 9"). ASU 2010 9 amends disclosure requirements within Subtopic 855 10. An entity that is an SEC filer is not required to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. This change alleviates potential conflicts between Subtopic 855 10 and the SECs requirements. ASU 2010 9 is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2010 09 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. 46 Table of Contents In January 2010, FASB issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2010 6 Improving Disclosures about Fair Measurements ("ASU 2010 6"). ASU 2010 6 provides amendments to subtopic 820 10 that require separate disclosure of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and the presentation of separate information regarding purchases, sales, issuances and settlements for Level 3 fair value measurements. Additionally, ASU 2010 6 provides amendments to subtopic 820 10 that clarify existing disclosures about the level of disaggregation and inputs and valuation techniques. ASU 2010 6 is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after December 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2010 06 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In January 2010, FASB issued ASU 2010 2 Consolidation (Topic 810) Accounting and Reporting for Decreases in Ownership of a Subsidiary a Scope Clarification ("ASU 2010 2"). ASU 2010 2 addresses implementation issues related to the changes in ownership provisions in the Consolidation Overall Subtopic (Subtopic 810 10) of the ASC, originally issued as FASB Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements. Subtopic 810 10 establishes the accounting and reporting guidance for noncontrolling interests and changes in ownership interests of a subsidiary. An entity is required to deconsolidate a subsidiary when the entity ceases to have a controlling financial interest in the subsidiary. Upon deconsolidation of a subsidiary, an entity recognizes a gain or loss on the transaction and measures any retained investment in the subsidiary at fair value. The gain or loss includes any gain or loss associated with the difference between the fair value of the retained investment in the subsidiary and its carrying amount at the date the subsidiary is deconsolidated. In contrast, an entity is required to account for a decrease in ownership interest of a subsidiary that does not result in a change of control of the subsidiary as an equity transaction. ASU 2010 2 is effective for the Company starting January 3, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2010 2 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In December 2009, FASB issued ASU 2009 17 Consolidations (Topic 810) Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities ("ASU 2009 17"). ASU 2009 17 amends the FASB ASC for the issuance of FASB Statement No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). The amendments in ASU 2009 17 replace the quantitative based risks and rewards calculation for determining which enterprise, if any, has a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity with an approach focused on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance and (1) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or (2) the right to receive benefits from the entity. ASU 2009 17 also requires additional disclosures about an enterprises involvement in variable interest entities. ASU 2009 17 is effective for the Company starting January 3, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009 17 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In December 2009, FASB issued ASU 2009 16 Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860) Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets ("ASU 2009 16"). ASU 2009 16 amends the ASC for the issuance of FASB Statement No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140. The amendments in ASU 2009 16 eliminate the exceptions for qualifying special purpose entities from the consolidation guidance and the exception that permitted sale accounting for certain mortgage securitizations when a transferor has not surrendered control over the transferred financial assets. In addition, the amendments require enhanced disclosures about the risks that a transferor continues to be exposed to because of its continuing involvement in transferred financial assets. ASU 2009 16 is effective for the Company starting January 3, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009 16 to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. 47 Table of Contents Newly Adopted Accounting Standard Codification In August 2009, FASB issued ASU 2009 5 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820) Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value ("ASU 2009 5"). ASU 2009 5 amends Subtopic 820 10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Overall, related to the fair value measurement of liabilities. ASU 2009 5 clarifies that in circumstances in which a quoted price in an active market for the identical liability is not available, a reporting entity is required to measure fair value. ASU 2009 5 was effective for the Company for interim and annual periods ending after October 3, 2009. The adoption of ASU 2009 5 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In August 2009, FASB issued ASU 2009 4 Accounting for Redeemable Equity Instruments an Amendment to Section 480 10 S99 ("ASU 2009 4"). ASU 2009 4 represents an SEC update to Section 480 10 S99, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. The adoption of this guidance within ASU 2009 4 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In June 2009, FASB issued SFAS No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles A Replacement of FASB Statement No. 162, (now codified within ASC 105, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("ASC 105")). ASC 105 establishes the codification as the single source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. All guidance contained in the codification carries an equal level of authority. Following this statement, FASB will not issue new standards in the form of statements, FASB Staff Positions, or Emerging Issues Task Force Abstracts. Instead, it will issue Accounting Standards Updates, which will serve only to: (1) update the codification; (2) provide background information about the guidance; and (3) provide the bases for conclusions on the change(s) in the codification. ASC 105 was effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The codification supersedes all existing non SEC accounting and reporting standards. The adoption of ASC 105 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In May 2009, FASB issued SFAS No. 165, Subsequent Events (now codified within ASC 855, Subsequent Events ("ASC 855")). This portion of ASC 855 establishes the general standards of accounting for, and disclosure of, events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. ASC 855 was effective for the Company on April 5, 2009. The adoption of ASC 855 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In April 2009, FASB issued Staff Position ("FSP") No. 115 2 and FSP 124 2, Recognition and Presentation of Other Than Temporary Impairments (now codified within ASC 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities ("ASC 320")). This portion of ASC 320 provides greater clarity about the credit and noncredit components of an other than temporary impairment event and more effectively communicates when an other than temporary impairment event has occurred. ASC 320 amends the other than temporary impairment model for debt securities. The impairment model for equity securities was not affected. Under ASC 320, an other than temporary impairment must be recognized through earnings if an investor has the intent to sell the debt security or if it is more likely than not that the investor will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. ASC 320 was effective for interim periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of ASC 320 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In April 2009, FASB issued FSP 157 4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly (now codified within ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC 820")). This portion of ASC 820 provides guidelines for making fair value measurements more consistent and provides additional authoritative guidance in determining whether a market is active or inactive and whether a transaction is distressed. ASC 820 is applied to all assets and liabilities (i.e., financial and 48 Table of Contents non financial) and requires enhanced disclosures. This standard was effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of ASC 820 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In April 2009, FASB issued FSP 107 1 and Accounting Principles Board 28 1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments (now codified within ASC 825, Financial Instruments ("ASC 825")). This portion of ASC 825 requires disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim financial statements as well as in annual financial statements. ASC 825 was effective for interim periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of ASC 825 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In June 2008, FASB issued Staff Position Emerging Issues Task Force 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (now codified within ASC 260, Earnings Per Share ("ASC 260")). Under this portion of ASC 260, unvested share based payment awards that contain non forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two class method. ASC 260 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years and requires retrospective application. The adoption of ASC 260 did not have a material impact on our earnings per share calculations. In April 2008, FASB issued FSP 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (now codified within ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other ("ASC 350")). This portion of ASC 350 provides guidance for determining the useful life of a recognized intangible asset and requires enhanced disclosures so that users of financial statements are able to assess the extent to which the expected future cash flows associated with the asset are affected by our intent and or ability to renew or extend the arrangement. ASC 350 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of ASC 350 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In March 2008, FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (now codified within ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging ("ASC 815")). This portion of ASC 815 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities aimed at improving the transparency of financial reporting. ASC 815 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of ASC 815 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Refer to Note 7, Derivatives and Risk Management, of this Form 10 K for the enhanced disclosures required by the adoption of ASC 815. In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (now codified within ASC 805, Business Combinations ("ASC 805")). This portion of ASC 805 establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date. ASC 805 significantly changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs and restructuring costs. In addition, under ASC 805, changes in an acquired entitys deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. ASC 805 will apply to any acquisitions we complete on or after December 15, 2008. The adoption of ASC 805 did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial position. 49  Table of Contents In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51 (now codified within ASC 810, Consolidation ("ASC 810")). This portion of ASC 810 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which are recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method significantly changes the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders. The provisions of ASC 810 were applied to all noncontrolling interests prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which were applied retrospectively to all periods presented and have been disclosed as such in our condensed consolidated financial statements herein. ASC 810 became effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted ASC 810 effective January 4, 2009. Upon adoption of ASC 810, the Company has recognized noncontrolling interests as equity in the consolidated balance sheets and has reflected net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated net income. In September 2006, FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (now codified within ASC 820). This portion of ASC 820 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. Under ASC 820, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. This guidance within ASC 820 became effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007; however, the FASB provided a one year deferral for implementation of the standard for non recurring, non financial assets and liabilities. Our adoption of this guidance for non financial assets and non financial liabilities on January 4, 2009 did not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, (i) the percentages of our net sales represented by certain line items from our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and (ii) the percentage changes in these line items between the fiscal years indicated: Fiscal Year 2009 Percentage Change from 2008 2008 Percentage Change from 2007 2007 Net sales 100.0 % (2.2 )% 100.0 % 10.5 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 45.4 (3.9 ) 46.2 6.0 48.2 Gross profit 54.6 (0.7 ) 53.8 14.7 51.8 Operating expenses 40.9 (1.9 ) 40.8 16.2 38.8 Operating income 13.7 2.8 13.0 10.3 13.0 Interest expense 0.0 (57.7 ) 0.0 (37.6 ) 0.0 Other income (expense) net 0.5 * (0.7 ) * 0.6 Income before income taxes 14.2 13.2 12.3 0.1 13.6 Income taxes 4.9 44.4 3.3 (20.0 ) 4.6 Net income 9.3 1.7 9.0 10.4 9.0 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 0.3 35.9 0.2 (28.1 ) 0.4 Net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. 9.0 % 0.8 8.8 % 12.0 8.6 % *not meaningful 50 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated net sales by segment, and components of certain segments, and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment, and components of certain segments, for the fiscal years indicated: Amounts in Millions Percentage of Total Fiscal Year 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 International wholesale: Europe $ 460.3 $ 530.0 $ 483.9 29.7 % 33.5 % 33.8 % Other 240.6 271.2 233.2 15.6 17.1 16.2 Total international wholesale 700.9 801.2 717.1 45.3 50.6 50.0 United States wholesale: Watch products 276.0 265.4 251.4 17.8 16.8 17.6 Other products 195.1 207.3 209.2 12.6 13.1 14.6 Total United States wholesale 471.1 472.7 460.6 30.4 29.9 32.2 Direct to consumer 376.1 309.3 255.3 24.3 19.5 17.8 Total net sales $ 1,548.1 $ 1,583.2 $ 1,433.0 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Net Sales. The following table illustrates by factor the total year over year percentage change in net sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Exchange Rates Organic Change Total Change Europe wholesale (3.7 )% (9.5 )% (13.2 )% Other international wholesale (1.2 ) (10.1 ) (11.3 ) United States wholesale (0.3 ) (0.3 ) Direct to consumer (1.1 ) 22.7 21.6 Consolidated (1.6 )% (0.6 )% (2.2 )% European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. The net sales decline in our European wholesale segment during fiscal year 2009 was primarily the result of sales volume declines in our core watch and jewelry businesses of 9.4% and 16.1%, respectively. We believe that weakening economies, and the resulting decrease in discretionary spending was the primary reason for our sales volume decreases in this segment. The declines had a bigger impact on our larger, more penetrated businesses. The decrease in our watch business was principally the result of FOSSIL and licensed brand watch sales volumes declining 6.7% and 9.3%, respectively, while the reduction in our jewelry sales volume was primarily led by a 21.1% decrease in Fossil jewelry. However, for brands and businesses recently introduced into our European wholesale segment and for those brands and businesses less penetrated, and thus continuing to expand into new doors, we experienced sales growth. For example, our recently introduced FOSSIL leathers business increased 18.5% during fiscal year 2009, with solid growth in both the womens and mens categories. We believe the expansion of our leathers business is partly attributable to the growth of our FOSSIL accessory store concept in this region, which is continuing to improve the brand awareness across all FOSSIL categories. Additionally, MICHAEL KORS&reg; and BURBERRY&reg; watch sales volumes rose 17.7% and 8.7%, respectively, primarily as a result of an increase in the penetration level with existing customers and new door growth. During fiscal year 2009, net sales were also favorably impacted by the introduction of DKNY&reg; jewelry, launched during the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Although we believe the current economic environment in Europe will 51 Table of Contents negatively impact our ability to substantially grow our sales in the near term, we believe we have maintained, if not increased, our market share and have positioned the Company to grow as the economic environment and discretionary spending improves. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Our other international wholesale segment includes sales from our Asia Pacific, Mexico and Canada subsidiaries, export sales from the U.S. and sales to our Spain joint venture. Net sales in our other international wholesale segment decreased during fiscal year 2009, principally a result of a $41.7 million decline in wholesale shipments to our third party distributors and our Spain joint venture. We attribute these sales declines to the challenging economic environment and credit restraints being experienced by a number of our third party distributors. Excluding shipments to third party distributors, sales from our Asia Pacific wholesale operations increased 12.8%, principally driven by further penetration in our newer markets of Korea, China and India as well as a 15.5% increase generated in our Australian wholesale business primarily related to sales volume growth in FOSSIL leather goods. Our wholesale operations in Canada and Mexico also experienced solid sales volume growth of 11.3% and 9.6%, respectively, during fiscal 2009. We believe our Asia Pacific distribution business continues to represent our largest opportunity for wholesale expansion. We believe the productivity of our concession model in this region allows us to gain market share in comparison to our competitors by essentially operating the space within our customers stores. This allows us to control merchandising, inventory levels, build out and branding decisions, and more importantly, the interaction with the end consumer. We believe our diverse global distribution network, including owned distribution in 23 countries, combined with our design and marketing capabilities, will allow us to continue to take shelf space from lesser known local and regional brands as we continue to increase brand awareness through the growth of our retail stores and introduction of new websites in many of the countries in which we operate. We also believe that the recent expansion of our businesses into new markets will allow us to experience higher levels of growth in our international wholesale segments in comparison to our U.S. wholesale segment. U.S. Wholesale Net Sales. We believe wholesale shipments of our watch and accessory offerings were negatively impacted by our wholesale partners significantly reducing their purchases during the first half of fiscal year 2009. We believe this was the result of our wholesale partners carrying higher levels of inventory into the beginning of the year due to the downturn in consumer spending during the fourth quarter of 2008. Nevertheless, net sales from our U.S. wholesale watch business increased 4.0% during fiscal year 2009, primarily a result of sales volume growth in licensed brands, mass market, RELIC and MICHELE watches, partially offset by a sales volume decrease in FOSSIL watches. Licensed watch sales rose 23.9%, principally driven by our MICHAEL KORS and to a lesser extent ADIDAS&reg; and MARC BY MARC JACOBS&reg; watches. MICHAEL KORS wholesale shipments increased 101.6% during fiscal year 2009, which we believe is due to the innovative design that is represented by the assortment and the expansion of points of sale for the brand. Sales volume growth in ADIDAS and MARC BY MARC JACOBS was primarily attributable to the expansion of points of sale. Our mass market watch shipments increased 13.0% in comparison to the prior year, which we attribute primarily to further penetration of our private label program with Wal Mart as well as consumers continuing to shop for value. RELIC watch sales rose 12.9% during fiscal year 2009, as a result of increased penetration in existing customers and new door growth. MICHELE sales volumes increased 5.5% during fiscal year 2009 which we attribute to consumers positive response to innovative new styles. Domestic wholesale shipments of FOSSIL watches declined 20.4% during fiscal 2009, which we believe resulted from retailers managing their inventories conservatively. FOSSIL is the most penetrated watch business within our portfolio in the U.S. wholesale segment and thereby more significantly impacted by comparable stores sales within the department store channel. However, new FOSSIL styles introduced into department stores during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 experienced 52 Table of Contents strong sell through during the holiday season, resulting in the overall trend improving. We believe this improving trend will result in increased wholesale shipments during the first half of fiscal 2010. Wholesale shipments from our accessories business in the U.S., which primarily includes handbags, small leather goods, belts, sunglasses, jewelry and cold weather accessories, decreased 5.9% during fiscal year 2009. This decrease is principally attributable to sales volume declines in FOSSIL womens handbags, small leather goods, and eyewear, partially offset by sales volume increases in FOSSIL accessory jewelry and the launch of our FOSSIL footwear line during fiscal 2009. We primarily attribute the sales volume declines in womens handbags, small leather goods and eyewear of 10.4%, 17.8% and 22.7%, respectively, to the challenging economic environment resulting in decreased consumer demand and our wholesale partners reducing inventory levels during the first nine months of fiscal year 2009. Additionally, eyewear sales volume was unfavorably impacted by certain of our customers consolidating vendors in their sunglass departments and discontinuing the RELIC mens eyewear line. FOSSIL accessory jewelry net sales increased 26.1% as a result of retail door growth while the launch of our FOSSIL footwear line contributed $2.6 million to the domestic wholesale business during fiscal 2009. We significantly improved the sales trend in our domestic accessories business during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and expect this favorable momentum to continue into fiscal 2010. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Direct to consumer net sales increased 22.7% during fiscal year 2009, principally the result of a 19.4% increase in the average number of stores open during the year and comparable store sales increases of 7.8%. Our direct to consumer segment was also favorably impacted by 11.4% growth in e commerce sales primarily driven by our U.S. based e commerce businesses. We believe this growth is partially attributable to system upgrades for our U.S. website during the second half of fiscal 2009. Additionally, an increase in the number of catalogs mailed in fiscal 2009 and an increase in the amount of spending during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 in on line search advertising also benefited e commerce sales. These initiatives led to an increased number of visitors to the site resulting in higher levels of sales. Our e commerce and catalog initiatives, in addition to the favorable consumer reaction to new product innovation, also benefited our comparable store sales in our U.S. retail stores. Comparable store sales related to our full price accessory concept, which is our growth engine in this segment, increased by 5.9% globally while our global outlet stores experienced comparable store sales growth of 9.7% during fiscal year 2009. We ended fiscal year 2009 with 354 stores, including 218 full price accessory stores, 126 of which are located outside the U.S., 90 outlet locations, including 16 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores and 13 multi brand stores. This compares to 324 stores at the end of fiscal 2008, which included 191 full price accessory stores, 104 located outside the U.S., 82 outlet locations, including 8 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores and 18 multi branded stores. During fiscal year 2009, we opened 42 new stores, including 29 full price accessory stores, and closed 12 stores. During fiscal 2010, we plan to open approximately 50 stores, concentrating on our full price accessory concept outside of the U.S. A store is included in comparable store sales in the thirteenth month of operation. Stores that experience a gross square footage increase of 10% or more due to an expansion and or relocation are removed from the comparable store sales base, but are included in total sales. These stores are returned to the comparable store sales base in the thirteenth month following the expansion and or relocation. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased by 0.7% to $844.9 million in fiscal year 2009, with gross profit margin expanding by 80 basis points to 54.6% compared to 53.8% in the prior fiscal year. The gross profit margin improvement was due primarily to an increase in the sales mix of direct to consumer segment sales and a reduction in sales mix of lower margin shipments to third party distributors. The increase in gross profit margin was partially offset by a stronger U.S. dollar, which unfavorably impacted gross profit margin by approximately 80 basis points during fiscal year 2009 and a 53 Table of Contents reduction in the sales mix attributable to our European wholesale segment, which historically generates gross profit margin in excess of our consolidated gross profit margin. In comparison to fiscal 2008, our fiscal 2009 gross profit margin was not impacted by any significant changes in component or labor costs related to the production of our watch and accessory offerings. Our consolidated gross profit margin is impacted by our diversified business model that includes but is not limited to: (i) a significant number of product categories we distribute, (ii) the multiple brands we offer within several product categories, (iii) the geographical presence of our businesses, and (iv) the different distribution channels we sell to or through. The components of this diversified business model produce varying ranges of gross profit margin. Generally, on an historical basis, our fashion branded watch, jewelry and sunglass offerings produce higher gross profit margins than our leather goods categories. In addition, in most product categories that we offer, brands with higher retail price points generally produce higher gross profit margins compared to those of lower retail priced brands. From a segment standpoint, our direct to consumer business generally produces the highest gross profit margin as a result of these sales being direct to the ultimate consumer. Gross profit margins related to sales in our international wholesale segment are historically lower than our direct to consumer segment, but historically higher than our U. S. wholesale segment primarily due to the following factors: (i) overall retail prices for comparable product sold in the U.S. are generally higher in our international businesses as a result of less competitive fashion and designer brands being offered in these markets; (ii) the product sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our U. S. wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of watches and jewelry that generally produce higher gross profit margins than leather goods; and (iii) the watch sales mix in our international wholesale segment, in comparison to our U. S. wholesale segment, is comprised more predominantly of higher priced licensed brands. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses decreased $12.2 million to $633.2 million in fiscal year 2009 in comparison to the prior fiscal year and as a percentage of net sales, increased 10 basis points to 40.9% compared to 40.8% in fiscal year 2008. Fiscal year 2009 included a reduction of approximately $11.5 million related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses due to an average stronger U.S. dollar on a comparable year over year basis. On a constant dollar basis, operating expenses for fiscal year 2009 included net decreases in our wholesale segments and corporate costs of $43.1 million, partially offset by an increase of $42.5 million in our direct to consumer segment. The decrease in operating expenses associated with our wholesale segments were primarily related to lower compensation cost, as a result of a reduction of workforce in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and the freeze of merit increases and certain benefit costs. Additionally, fiscal 2009 wholesale operating expenses benefited from reduced levels of advertising expense and a net reduction of approximately $5.2 million of non cash charges related to the write down of certain fixed asset and intangible asset impairments when compared to fiscal year 2008. Fiscal year 2009 operating expenses also benefited from reductions in certain variable expenses as a result of a reduction in wholesale sales. The increase in our direct to consumer operating expenses was primarily related to the impact of the direct operating costs associated with a net 30 new stores opened during fiscal year 2009 and expenses associated with the expansion of our e commerce and catalog operations. For fiscal year 2010, we expect our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales to increase due to new retail door growth, the full year operating expense impact of the net 30 stores opened during fiscal year 2009 and the normalization of compensation and other expenses that had been reduced in response to the economic environment during fiscal year 2009. 54  Table of Contents The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and as a percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated. In Millions 2009 2008 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 146.0 32 % $ 170.5 32 % Other international wholesale 76.7 32 75.7 28 United States wholesale 109.1 23 134.2 28 Direct to consumer 222.6 59 183.4 59 Corporate 78.8 81.6 Total $ 633.2 41 % $ 645.4 41 % Operating Income. Operating income increased by 2.8% to $211.6 million in fiscal year 2009 compared to $205.8 million in fiscal year 2008. Operating income margin increased by 70 basis points to 13.7% of net sales compared to 13.0% in the prior fiscal year, principally as a result of gross margin expansion. Operating income included approximately $15.4 million of net currency losses in fiscal year 2009 related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into U.S. dollars. Other Income (Expense) Net. Other income (expense) net primarily reflects interest income from investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses and equity in the earnings or losses of our non consolidated joint venture in Spain. During fiscal year 2009, other income (expense) net benefited by approximately $19.5 million as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily driven by net foreign currency transaction gains in comparison to net losses in the prior fiscal year. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 34.4% during fiscal year 2009, compared to 27.0% in fiscal year 2008. The prior fiscal years income tax expense was favorably impacted by the recognition of previously unrecognized income tax benefits in connection with the completion of prior year income tax audits. For fiscal year 2010, we estimate our effective tax rate will approximate 36 to 37%, excluding any discrete events. Net Income. Fiscal year 2009 net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. increased 0.8% to $139.2 million, or $2.07 per diluted share, in comparison to $138.1 million, or $2.02 per diluted share, in the prior fiscal year. Fiscal year 2009 earnings per diluted share of $2.07 included an approximate $0.07 diluted earnings per share benefit related to currency. Fiscal year 2008 diluted earnings per share included a benefit of approximately $0.20 per diluted share as a result of the reduction of certain tax reserves recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Net Sales. The following table illustrates by factor the total year over year percentage change in net sales by segment and on a consolidated basis: Exchange Rates Organic Growth Total Change Europe wholesale 2.7 % 6.8 % 9.5 % Other international wholesale 2.3 14.0 16.3 United States wholesale 2.6 2.6 Direct to consumer (1.1 ) 22.3 21.2 Consolidated 1.1 % 9.4 % 10.5 % 55 Table of Contents European Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Shipments from our European wholesale segment expanded in fiscal year 2008 as a result of sales volume growth in licensed brand watches, FOSSIL jewelry and watches, and to a lesser extent, leather goods and licensed brand jewelry. We experienced growth across most of our major licensed brand watch businesses, with EMPORIO ARMANI&reg;, MICHAEL KORS and DIESEL&reg; increasing 5.5%, 101.4% and 11.0% in fiscal year 2008, respectively. These sales increases were partially offset by a sales volume decline in DKNY watches of 8.6% that we attribute to a moderating consumer response to core styles within the assortment. Whereas EMPORIO ARMANI and DIESEL watches have been distributed in our European wholesale segment for some time, the growth in our MICHAEL KORS watch business was primarily related to the introduction of this brand in fiscal 2007 and continued door growth throughout fiscal 2008. FOSSIL jewelry, watch and leather sales rose 12.9%, 5.5% and 27.1% in fiscal year 2008, respectively. We believe this growth was the result of consumers positive response to our repositioning of the brand towards a unique modern vintage styling and aspirational viewpoint as well as increased brand awareness generated by the accelerated growth in our European retail store base. The bulk of our leather business has historically been distributed through the U.S. department store channel. However, we were able to expand the presence of this business in Europe during fiscal 2008 through some of our wholesale partners based upon the visibility and success of this product category within our own retail stores. Licensed brand jewelry sales rose primarily as a result of the introduction of DKNY jewelry that commenced in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. DKNY jewelry contributed $4.6 million to sales during fiscal year 2008, which was partially offset by a planned decrease of 25.7% in ARMANI jewelry as we were updating the line to stainless steel. Other International Wholesale Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. The increase in wholesale shipments from our other international segment in fiscal year 2008 was the result of sales volume growth from our licensed brand and FOSSIL watches as well as increased penetration of our jewelry businesses. Increased licensed brand watch net sales were primarily attributable to EMPORIO ARMANI, DIESEL and MICHAEL KORS increasing 20.8%, 17.3% and 131.0%, respectively in fiscal year 2008, partially offset by a 10.1% decrease in DKNY. The decrease in our DKNY watch business was for similar reasons as explained above for our European wholesale segment. In fiscal 2008, the penetration levels of most of our businesses distributed in this region were much lower than those levels experienced in our U.S. and European wholesale markets. As a result, our growth in the other international segment in fiscal 2008 was primarily related to market share expansion in existing doors and growth in new doors as well as the recent expansion of our businesses into China, India and Korea. Additionally, introduction of new businesses, including MICHAEL KORS watches and OYZTERBAY, a regionally recognized jewelry brand in India acquired in the first half of fiscal 2008, and DKNY jewelry contributed a combined $8.3 million in net sales during fiscal year 2008. U.S. Wholesale Net Sales. During fiscal year 2008, the increase in wholesale watch shipments in the U.S. was primarily the result of sales volume growth in licensed brand and MICHELE watches, partially offset by a sales volume decrease in FOSSIL watches. Licensed brand watch sales included a 108.4% increase from MICHAEL KORS and a 33.9% increase from EMPORIO ARMANI. We attribute the increases for both of these businesses to further penetration of the lines in the department store channel and new doors being added for MICHAEL KORS. These increases were partially offset by DKNY watches, which experienced a 25.3% net sales volume decline. The decrease in our DKNY watch business was for similar reasons as explained above for our European wholesale segment. MICHELE watch sales volume rose 20.8% during fiscal year 2008, primarily as a result of a significant reduction in the level of returns experienced during the year as compared to the prior fiscal year. The increased level of returns in fiscal 2007 was primarily driven by an accommodation made to ship more new styles and by the manner in which product was shipped. Watch heads and straps were shipped assembled together as a complete watch rather than being shipped separately. As a result, end of 56 Table of Contents season fashion watches had to be returned to change the straps to current fashion colors. During fiscal 2008, the FOSSIL watch business represented the highest penetration level of our fashion watch brands within the moderate department store environment. As a result, its growth was mostly predicated on the overall performance of the moderate department store channel. We believe the 6.1% net sales decline in FOSSIL watches to be representative of the deteriorating economic conditions in the U.S. throughout 2008, which resulted in lower traffic levels in department stores and an overall decline in department store sales during 2008. Wholesale shipments from our other products category in the U.S., decreased 0.9% during fiscal year 2008. This decrease is attributable to sales volume declines in FOSSIL mens and womens leather categories of 24.7% and 2.9%, respectively, and a decrease in RELIC eyewear net sales of 26.5%. These declines were mostly offset by a 28.4% increase in RELIC womens handbags and a 138.6% increase in FOSSIL accessory jewelry that was introduced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. The sales volume decreases in our FOSSIL mens and womens leather categories were indicative of a weak, highly promotional retail environment that resulted in increased levels of markdown contributions within the U.S. moderate department store channel that negatively impacted our sales. Sales volume decreases in RELIC eyewear were principally related to a reduction in market share due to a contraction in the number of displays within one of our major customers in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007. However, our RELIC handbag line continued to be a top performer within its distribution channel in fiscal year 2008. We believe this business benefited from its relative value proposition and consumers selectively shopping for lower priced goods as the economy softened throughout 2008. Direct to Consumer Net Sales. The following discussion excludes the impact on sales attributable to foreign currency rate changes as noted in the above table. Net sales from our direct to consumer segment increased 22.3% during fiscal year 2008, principally the result of a 28.5% increase in the average number of stores open during the year and comparable store sales increases of 2.3%. Additionally, contributing to our growth in the direct to consumer segment were our e commerce businesses, which grew 22.9% during fiscal year 2008. This growth was attributable to increased sales from our German website that was launched during the second half of 2007, and to a lesser extent, a 6.5% increase in our U.S. based e commerce business. Comparable store sales related to our full price accessory concept, which was our growth engine in this segment, increased by 2.1% globally while our global outlet stores experienced comparable store sales growth of 5.8% during fiscal year 2008. We ended fiscal year 2008 with 324 stores, including 191 full price accessory stores, 104 of which were located outside the U.S., 82 outlet locations, including 8 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores and 18 multi brand stores. This compares to 244 stores at the end of fiscal 2007, which included 113 full price accessory stores, 55 located outside the U.S., 80 outlet locations, including 6 outside the U.S., 33 apparel stores and 18 multi branded stores. During fiscal year 2008, we opened 84 new stores, including 79 full price accessory stores, and closed 4 stores. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by 14.7% to $851.2 million in fiscal year 2008, with gross profit margin expanding by 200 basis points to 53.8% compared to 51.8% in the prior fiscal year. The gross profit margin improvement was principally the result of an increase in the sales mix of our higher margin direct to consumer and international wholesale segments and an approximate 40 basis point improvement relating to the average weaker U.S. dollar in comparison to fiscal year 2007. Gross profit margin also improved as a result of our internal initiative, begun in late 2007, to lower our product cost on newly developed styles. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses of $645.4 million represented an increase of $89.8 million in comparison to the prior fiscal year and as a percentage of sales increased to 40.8% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to 38.8% in the prior fiscal year. Fiscal year 2008 operating expenses included approximately $7.3 million related to the translation impact of foreign based expenses due to 57 Table of Contents an average weaker U.S. dollar on a comparable year over year basis and approximately $10.6 million of non cash charges related to the write down of certain other than temporary investment, fixed asset, and intangible asset impairments. Fiscal year 2007 operating expenses included approximately $13.1 million related to our completed equity grant review. Additionally, the increase in operating expenses in fiscal year 2008 included an approximate $51 million increase in our direct to consumer segment and an approximate $36 million increase related to our wholesale businesses. The increase in our direct to consumer operating expenses primarily related to the impact of the direct operating costs associated with a net 80 new stores opened during fiscal year 2008, the expansion of our back office infrastructure to support a significantly higher number of stores opened globally and expenses associated with the expansion of our e commerce and catalog operations. Operating expenses as a percentage of sales, excluding the impact of asset impairment charges and currency in fiscal year 2008 and expenses associated with our completed equity grant review in fiscal year 2007, increased 220 basis points compared to fiscal year 2007. Approximately $5 million, or 35 basis points, of this increase was due to the higher mix of direct to consumer expenses which partially offset the benefit of a higher gross margin resulting from increased direct to consumer sales. An additional $29.0 million in expenses, or 185 basis points, was related to our expenses growing at a slightly higher rate than sales, primarily due to lower fourth quarter sales than originally projected and the expansion of our retail back office infrastructure during fiscal year 2008. The following table sets forth consolidated operating expenses by segment and the percentage of net sales related to each respective segment for the periods indicated: In Millions 2008 2007 Fiscal Year Operating Expense % of Net Sales Operating Expense % of Net Sales Europe wholesale $ 170.5 32 % $ 144.2 30 % Other international wholesale 75.7 28 64.4 28 United States wholesale 134.2 28 124.5 27 Direct to consumer 183.4 59 131.6 52 Corporate 81.6 90.8 Total $ 645.4 41 % $ 555.5 39 % Operating Income. Operating income increased 10.3% to $205.8 million in fiscal year 2008, compared to $186.5 million in fiscal year 2007. Operating income margin remained unchanged at 13.0% in fiscal year 2008 as compared to the prior fiscal year, as increased gross profit margin was offset by an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net sales. Operating income included approximately $6.7 million of net currency gains in fiscal year 2008 related to the translation of foreign based sales and expenses into U. S. dollars. Other Income (Expense) Net. During fiscal year 2008, other income (expense) net increased unfavorably by approximately $19.3 million as compared to fiscal year 2007, primarily driven by increased foreign currency transaction losses partially offset by forward contract gains. As the U.S. dollar strengthened during the second half of fiscal year 2008, we recognized currency losses related to foreign currency payable balances denominated in U.S. dollars. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate, attributable to Fossil, Inc. was 27.0% during fiscal year 2008 compared to 33.7% in fiscal year 2007. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2008 was primarily attributable to the recognition of previously unrecognized income tax benefits in connection with the completion of prior year income tax audits. 58 Table of Contents Net Income. Fiscal year 2008 net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. increased 12.0% to $138.1 million, or $2.02 per diluted share, in comparison to $123.3 million, or $1.75 per diluted share, in the prior year period. The fiscal year 2008 earnings per diluted share of $2.02 included an approximate $0.20 per diluted share benefit from a lower effective tax rate partially offset by an unfavorable $0.13 per diluted share impact related to currency and a $0.11 per diluted share charge for impairment. The fiscal year 2007 earnings per share of $1.75 included an approximate $0.13 per diluted share charge related to expenses associated with the Companys completed equity grant review. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our results of operations for the periods presented. Substantial increases in costs, however, could have an impact on us and the industry. We believe that, to the extent inflation affects our costs in the future, we could generally offset inflation by increasing prices if competitive conditions permit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our business operations have not required substantial cash during the first quarter of our fiscal year. Generally, starting in the second quarter, our cash needs begin to increase, typically reaching a peak in the September November time frame as we increase inventory levels in advance of the holiday season. Our quarterly cash requirements are also impacted by the number of new stores we open. Our cash and cash equivalent balances as of the end of fiscal year 2009 increased to $405.2 million in comparison to $172.0 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. Of the $405.2 million of cash and cash equivalents at fiscal year end 2009, $270.4 million was held in banks outside the U.S. The increase in our cash holdings is primarily the result of $266.0 million of net cash generated from operating activities partially offset by $38.3 million of cash used in investing activities. Cash flows generated from operating activities were principally driven by net income of $144.3 million, non cash items of approximately $57.6 million and $44.6 million related to decreased inventory balances. Cash used in investing activities was primarily related to fixed asset additions of $37.7 million. Accounts receivable at the end of fiscal year 2009 increased by 1.9% to $209.8 million compared to $206.0 million at the end of fiscal year 2008, primarily due to an increase in wholesale shipments during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 versus the comparable prior year period. Average days sales outstanding for our wholesale segments decreased to 54 days in fiscal year 2009 from 58 days in the prior fiscal year, primarily driven by a reduction in sales mix of internationally based sales that generally result in longer collection cycles than those experienced in the U.S. Inventory at fiscal year end 2009 was $245.7 million, representing a decrease of 15.8% from the 2008 fiscal year end balance of $292.0 million. Our inventory decline for fiscal 2009 is well above our net sales decline of 2.2% At the end of fiscal year 2009, we had working capital of $701.2 million compared to $556.5 million at the end of the prior fiscal year. We had approximately $8.1 million of total indebtedness at the end of fiscal 2009, consisting of $3.6 million of short term borrowings and $4.5 million of long term debt. This compares to total indebtedness of $10.0 million in fiscal 2008, consisting of $5.3 million of outstanding short term borrowings and $4.7 million of long term debt. The majority of our short term borrowings are attributable to our Japan subsidiary, which ended fiscal 2009 with short term borrowings of approximately $3.2 million, compared to $4.9 million at the end of fiscal 2008. These borrowings are under two separate 150 million Yen short term credit facilities (approximately $3.2 million U.S. dollars based upon the fiscal year end 2009 Yen exchange rate to the U.S. dollar), one bearing interest at the short term prime rate (1.475% at fiscal year end 2009) and one bearing interest based upon the Tokyo Interbank Offer Rate (1.475% as of fiscal year end 2009). 59 Table of Contents Borrowings under these Japanese facilities are primarily related to working capital needs and are due in March 2010. At the end of fiscal year 2009, the majority of our long term debt is attributable to our wholly owned subsidiary, Fossil Group Europe, Gmbh, ("FGE"). FGE had outstanding long term borrowings in the form of a term note of $3.6 million at the end of fiscal year 2009 compared to approximately $3.5 million at the end of fiscal year 2008. This note has a variable interest term with an interest rate of 2.0% at year end fiscal 2009 with interest payments due quarterly. This note requires minimum principal payments of 100,000 Swiss Francs each year with no stated maturity and no penalties for early termination. At the end of fiscal year 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings under our $100 million U.S. Short Term Revolving Credit Facility ("the Revolver") with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ("Wells Fargo"). Amounts outstanding under the Revolver bear interest at our option of (i) the lesser of (a) the higher of the prime rate (3.25% at fiscal year end 2009) plus 1.5% or 3% or (b) the maximum rate allowed by law or (ii) the London Interbank Offer Rate, ("LIBOR"), base rate (0.23% at fiscal year end 2009) plus one half percent. The Revolver is secured by 65% of the issued and outstanding shares of certain of our subsidiaries pursuant to a Stock Pledge Agreement and requires the maintenance of net worth, quarterly income, working capital and certain financial ratios. The Revolver has an expiration date in November 2010 and allows for an increase from $100 million to $200 million upon our request and approval of Wells Fargo. Available borrowings under our Revolver are reduced by $32.2 million of open letters of credit and by amounts outstanding under foreign based borrowing arrangements. At the end of fiscal year 2009, we had available borrowings of approximately $67.8 million under the Revolver and we were in compliance with all debt covenants. During fiscal year 2010, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $55 million to $65 million principally to support new company owned retail store openings, store remodels, the costs associated with the continued roll out of a SAP point of sale system for our company owned retail stores which began in fiscal 2009 and other general maintenance capital requirements. We believe that cash flow from operations combined with existing cash on hand and, if necessary, amounts available under our Revolver will be sufficient to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Debt obligations(1) $ 6,908 $ 3,321 $ 194 $ 194 $ 3,199 Minimum royalty payments(2) 224,029 60,363 107,881 55,785 Capital lease obligations 1,277 308 598 371 Operating lease obligations 398,090 63,712 108,839 88,318 137,221 Purchase obligations(3) 85,089 84,799 290 Uncertain tax positions(4) 17,018 17,018 Total contractual cash obligations $ 732,411 $ 229,521 $ 217,802 $ 144,668 $ 140,420 (1)Consists of borrowings in Japan and Switzerland, excluding contractual interest payments that are variable in nature. (2)Consists primarily of exclusive licenses to manufacture watches and jewelry under trademarks not owned by us. Also includes amounts owed pursuant to various license and design service agreements under which we are obligated to pay the licensors a percentage of our net sales of these licensed products, subject to minimum scheduled royalty, design and advertising payments. 60 Table of Contents (3)Consists primarily of outstanding letters of credit, which represent inventory purchase commitments that typically mature in one to eight months and open non cancelable purchase orders. (4)Management has only included its current ASC 740 liability in the table above. Long term amounts of $17.0 million have been excluded because the payment timing cannot be reasonably estimated. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements None. Selected Quarterly Financial Data The table below sets forth selected quarterly financial information. The information is derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements and includes, in the opinion of management, all normal and recurring adjustments that management considers necessary for a fair statement of results for such periods. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Certain line items presented in the tables below, when aggregated, may not agree with the corresponding line items on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 due to rounding. Fiscal Year 2009 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 323,027 $ 315,865 $ 381,362 $ 527,839 Gross profit 169,379 167,182 210,737 297,552 Operating expenses 145,576 144,706 153,373 189,568 Operating income 23,803 22,476 57,364 107,984 Income before income taxes 28,423 26,957 55,654 108,864 Provision for income taxes 9,927 9,709 19,109 36,859 Net income 18,496 17,248 36,545 72,005 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 1,176 625 1,270 2,034 Net income attributable to Fossil, Inc. 17,320 16,623 35,275 69,971 Earnings per share: Basic 0.26 0.25 0.53 1.05 Diluted 0.26 0.25 0.52 1.03 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 52.4 % 52.9 % 55.3 % 56.4 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 45.1 % 45.8 % 40.2 % 35.9 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 7.4 % 7.1 % 15.0 % 20.5 % 61 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2008 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA Net sales $ 356,184 $ 353,191 $ 409,760 $ 464,106 Gross profit 194,251 190,339 224,177 242,384 Operating expenses 145,136 155,378 160,439 184,427 Operating income 49,115 34,961 63,738 57,957 Income before income taxes 49,039 33,654 60,967 50,544 Provision for income taxes 17,888 7,147 23,447 3,869 Net income 31,151 26,507 37,520 46,675 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 934 1,370 1,049 403 Net income attributable to Fossil, Inc 30,217 25,137 36,471 46,272 Earnings per share: Basic 0.44 0.37 0.54 0.70 Diluted 0.43 0.36 0.54 0.69 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 54.5 % 53.9 % 54.7 % 52.2 % Operating expenses as a percentage of net sales 40.7 % 44.0 % 39.2 % 39.7 % Operating income as a percentage of net sales 13.8 % 9.9 % 15.6 % 12.5 % While the majority of our products are not seasonal in nature, a significant portion of our net sales and operating income is generally derived in the second half of the year. Our third and fourth quarters, which include the "back to school" and Christmas season, have historically generated a significant portion of our annual operating income. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during the first quarter is affected by the levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season, as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In general, lower levels of inventory held by retailers at the end of the Christmas season may have a positive impact on our net sales and operating income in the first quarter of the following year as a result of higher levels of restocking orders placed by retailers. We currently believe that our inventory levels for certain of our customers in the U.S. at the end of fiscal year 2009 were below their targeted inventory levels. As we continue to grow our retail store base and e commerce businesses, sales from our direct to consumer segment increase as a percentage of the total sales mix, benefiting the Companys profitability in the fourth quarter, generally at the expense of the first and second quarters when, due to seasonality, it is more difficult to leverage direct to consumer expenses against direct to consumer sales. In addition, new product launches would generally augment the sales and operating expense levels in the quarter the product launch takes place. The results of operations for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including retail, economic and monetary conditions, timing of orders or holidays and the mix of products sold by us.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk As a multinational enterprise, we are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our most significant foreign currency risk relates to the Euro and, to a lesser extent, the British Pound, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Mexican Peso as compared to the U.S. dollar. Due to our vertical nature whereby a significant portion of goods are sourced from our owned facilities, the foreign currency risks relate primarily to the necessary current settlement of intercompany inventory transactions. We employ a variety of operating practices to manage these market risks relative to foreign currency exchange rate changes and, where deemed appropriate, utilize foreign currency forward contracts. These operating practices include, among others, our ability to convert foreign currency into U.S. dollars at spot rates and to maintain U.S. dollar pricing relative to sales of our products to certain distributors located outside the U.S. The use of foreign currency forward contracts allows us to offset exposure to rate fluctuations because the gains or losses incurred on the derivative 62 Table of Contents instruments will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. We use derivative instruments only for risk management purposes and do not use them for speculation or for trading. There were no significant changes in how we managed foreign currency transactional exposure in fiscal year 2009 and management does not anticipate any significant changes in such exposures or in the strategies we employ to manage such exposure in the near future. At January 2, 2010, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts to sell 84.7 million Euro for approximately $121.5 million, expiring through December 2010, 2.0 billion Japanese Yen for approximately $21.8 million, expiring through June 2011, 3.0 million British Pounds for approximately $4.7 million, expiring through June 2010, 7.0 million Australian Dollars for approximately $5.8 million, expiring through June 2010, 31.4 million Mexican Pesos for approximately $2.4 million, expiring through June 2010 and 10.5 million Canadian Dollars for approximately $10.0 million, expiring through January 2011. If we were to settle our Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Australian Dollar, Mexican Peso and Canadian Dollar based contracts at fiscal year end 2009, the net result would be a net loss of approximately $17,000, net of taxes. At fiscal year end 2009, a 10% unfavorable change in the U.S. dollar strengthening against foreign currencies to which we have balance sheet transactional exposures would have reduced net pre tax income by $9.6 million. The translation of the balance sheets of our foreign based operations from their local currencies into U.S. dollars is also sensitive to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At fiscal year end 2009, a 10% unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar strengthening against the foreign currencies to which we have exposure would have reduced consolidated stockholders equity by approximately $38.5 million. In the view of management, these hypothetical losses resulting from these assumed changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 63  Table of Contents  
 
