Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MDA) has been revised for the effects of the Restatement as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. This MDA is intended to help investors understand Apollo Group, Inc. (the Company, Apollo Group, Apollo, or APOL), our operations, and our present business environment. The MDA is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes (Notes). The following overview provides a summary of the sections included in our MDA: Forward Looking Statements cautionary information about forward looking statements and a description of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections. Results of Independent and Internal Review; Effect of Restatement a discussion of the results of our Independent Review and Internal Review of our historical practices related to stock option grants and the effects of the Restatement. Executive Summary a general description of our business and the education industry, as well as key highlights of the current year. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates a discussion of accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates. Results of Operations an analysis of our results of operations in our consolidated financial statements. We operate in one business sector: education. Except to the extent that differences between our reportable segments are material to an understanding of our business as a whole, we present the discussion in our MDA on a consolidated basis. Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position an analysis of cash flows, sources and uses of cash, commitments and contingencies, seasonality in the results of our operations, the impact of inflation, and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains certain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward looking statements. Such forward looking statements include, among others, those statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and the beliefs and assumptions of us and our management, and speak only as of the date made and are not guarantees of future performance. The words believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, plans, objectives, and other similar statements of expectation identify forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to risks. Such statements should be viewed with caution. Future events and actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements as a result of many factors. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including those set forth in Item 1 under the sections titled Regulatory Environment, Accreditation, Federal Financial Aid Programs, and State Authorization, those factors set forth in this Item 7 and those factors set forth in other reports that we file with the SEC. We undertake no 49 Table of Contents obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, or any facts, events, or circumstances after the date hereof that may bear upon forward looking statements. Results of Independent and Internal Review; Effect of Restatement In this Annual Report for the year ended August 31, 2006, we have restated our consolidated balance sheet as of August 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004. See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14 Employee and Director Benefit Plans and Note 17, Quarterly Results of Operations (Restated and Unaudited) included in Part II, Item 8 for a discussion of the effect of the Restatement. As part of the Restatement, we have recorded additional (decreased) pre tax share based compensation expense with regard to past stock option grants of approximately $4.9 million and $14.9 million under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25) for our fiscal years ended August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004, respectively. This Annual Report on Form 10 K also presents the effects of the Restatement on our Selected Consolidated Financial Data in Item 6 for our fiscal years ended August 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Item 7 for our fiscal years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004. Previously filed annual reports on Form 10 K and quarterly reports on Form 10 Q affected by the Restatement will not be amended. Accordingly, previously issued financial statements and related reports of our independent registered public accounting firm should not be relied upon. Background In response to comments in a report published by an investment bank on June 8, 2006 that questioned whether we might have backdated stock option grants during its fiscal years ended August 31, 2000 through August 31, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a Special Committee on June 23, 2006, and authorized it to retain independent legal counsel, who in turn retained forensic accountants, to assist them in conducting the Independent Review of the Companys historical practices related to stock option grants. In November 2006, with the assistance of outside legal counsel, we began an in depth Internal Review to ascertain the most likely measurement date of every stock option grant since our initial public offering (IPO) during our fiscal year 1994 through September 2006 (the Internal Review). On December 15, 2006, we announced in a Form 8 K that the Special Committee presented the final factual findings of the Independent Review to the Board disclosing, among other things, that: In the accounting of certain stock option grants, the Company did not correctly apply the requirements of APB 25. In certain instances, the Company used a measurement date for option awards that corresponded with the [stated] grant date even though the approvals for those grants as set forth in the operative plans were not obtained until after the reported grant date and the final lists of grantees and award amounts were incomplete at the time of the reported grant date. The Company misapplied Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) with respect to the contemporaneous tax treatment of certain stock option grants and may face significant tax liability for prior years. The Company prepared and maintained inaccurate documentation concerning the date that grant award lists were completed and approved. The Special Committee has found no direct evidence that the grant date for any of the large Management Grants was selected with the benefit of hindsight. In two instances, though, the price on the grant date is at a relative low point for the Companys stock, and there is little contemporaneous evidence to establish that the grant was made on the grant date. While there is a possibility that the grant date was retroactively selected, there is insufficient evidence to reach such a conclusion. 50 Table of Contents [T]he Special Committee, in connection with its factual findings, reported to the Board that certain former officers took steps that may have been intended to mask failures in the grant approval process with respect to the Companys financial reporting and payment of taxes. The Special Committee also recently discovered additional evidence that raises questions whether another grant (in addition to the two grants referenced in a previous Form 8 K dated November 6, 2006) may have been retroactively selected by a day, although there is insufficient evidence to reach such a conclusion. Based on the Independent Review and the Internal Review, we determined that 57 of the 100 total grants made during this time period used incorrect measurement dates for accounting purposes. Of these 100 grants, 33 grants were Management Grants. We determined that incorrect measurement dates were used for accounting purposes for 24 of the 33 Management Grants. As a result, revised measurement dates were selected for many grants and resulted in exercise prices that were less than the fair market value of the stock on the most likely measurement dates. We recorded pre tax compensation expense of $52.9 million ($59.9 million after tax) in the aggregate over the fiscal years 1994 through 2005. The after tax amount is higher due primarily to disallowed deductions pursuant to IRS Section 162(m) and related penalties and interest. This incremental share based compensation expense results in a cumulative decrease to pre tax income of $21.1 million ($34.2 million after tax) for the years ended August 31, 2002 through 2005. Based on the available documentation and evidence, the following summarizes our understanding of our historical granting process and determination of the most likely measurement dates for our stock option grants. Historically, we made annual grants of APOL and UPX Online options. We have historically granted stock options to the following groups: Management and other employees (annual grants), including those officers covered by Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (Section 16 Officers) and other employees; Non employee directors (the Director Grants); Faculty (full and part time employees) (the Faculty Grants); and Individual employees (new hires, promotions, transfers, etc.) (the Individual Grants). Employee Stock Option Plans We typically awarded stock options to certain employees (including the Section 16 Officers) on an annual basis. From June 1994 to March 24, 2000, we issued Management Grants pursuant to the Long Term Incentive Plan dated May 13, 1994, as amended on September 22, 1995 (LTIP). The LTIP required approval of all grants by the majority of the members of the Compensation Committee. Subsequent to March 24, 2000, we awarded Management Grants pursuant to the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (2SIP). The 2SIP required the approval of all grants by the Compensation Committee or by both the President and CEO. Our former CEO became President of the Company in 1998 and was promoted to President and CEO in August 2001, and he retained both offices until he resigned in January 2006 (the Former CEO). The Former CEO had authority to approve the option grants for employees other than himself. Grant approval memoranda (Approval Memoranda or Approval Memorandum) were signed by the Former CEO or the Compensation Committee for a number of grants to employees. Our Process for Granting Stock Options Management Grants Our annual Management Grant process followed a similar pattern each year. Generally, near the end of each fiscal year (before the grant date), we began developing a list of grantees. Over a period of time the list was finalized. Once the total number of shares to be issued to each grantee was known, the list was submitted to the Stock Option Manager (Manager) in our accounting department. Over the next few weeks to a few months, changes were made to the list: names were added, shares were adjusted, and underlying vesting goals were developed. We understand that prior to August 2001, most grant dates were selected at Board or Compensation Committee meetings. We understand that beginning in August 2001, the 51 Table of Contents Former CEO generally selected the grant date. The majority of the Management Grants have a 10 year term with 4 year standard vesting. The grants typically contained vesting acceleration provisions based upon meeting certain financial performance goals (e.g., earnings per share, stock price, net income, etc.). Once the list was finalized by the accounting department, the Former CEO communicated his approval; however, no contemporaneous evidence exists to support on what date this occurred. It was then communicated to the Manager that the list could be entered into Equity Edge, our stock option plan administration software. Our Use of Equity Edge We began using Equity Edge in approximately May 1997 and still use it today. Data relating to pre May 1997 grants was also entered into the system in 1997 for recordkeeping purposes. The date a grant is first entered in Equity Edge is referred to as the Equity Edge Record Added Date. After February 2000, the Equity Edge data was then uploaded to an external third party broker dealer firm. On each day that activity occurred in Equity Edge, the third party broker dealers system would automatically download the option grant information into the individual employee brokerage accounts that night. The grantees could then view the options in their brokerage accounts online. Approval of Management Grants Management Grants issued from June 1994 to August 2001 under both the LTIP and the 2SIP required approval by both members of the Compensation Committee. Such approval was mostly documented by Compensation Committee minutes. However, often no list was attached to the minutes. We believe that most grant dates were set at Board or Compensation Committee meetings. Based on a review of past granting practices, the Compensation Committee did not and has not invalidated any grants and we have honored all grants. In 2000, instead of using Compensation Committee minutes, we began using Approval Memoranda to memorialize grants to employees. Beginning in August 2001, an Approval Memorandum was prepared for grants to the Former CEO. At this time, the Former CEO also had the authority to approve the option grants for employees other than himself. In the course of the Independent Review and the Internal Review, two types of Approval Memoranda were found. We found Approval Memoranda signed by either the Compensation Committee or, beginning in August 2001, signed by the Former CEO approving grants to all employees. These Approval Memoranda, in limited instances, indicate the specific number of shares to be received by each grantee. We also found Approval Memoranda signed by the Compensation Committee for grants to the Former CEO. These Approval Memoranda typically stated the number of shares being granted to the Former CEO. Although there exists a general lack of documentation surrounding the creation and execution of Approval Memoranda, we understand that Approval Memoranda were created at some point in the grant making process, and in certain cases, the Approval Memoranda were dated as of the date of the grant it was approving, such that in certain cases, the date on the Memorandum contained a date before the actual creation date of the Memorandum. In many instances, the Approval Memorandum was signed by only the Chairman of the Compensation Committee and we lack evidence as to whether all of the grants issued were, in fact, approved by a majority of the members of the Compensation Committee. As a result of the Independent Review and Internal Review, we understand that the Approval Memoranda are not conclusive as to the actual date of approval, but they do reflect that the approval was given and that the grant was authorized. As a result of the review of our past granting practices, we determined the Equity Edge Record Added Date represents the most likely measurement date as to when the terms of the awards were finalized and approved. After the Former CEO resigned in January 2006, to the extent evidence exists of Compensation Committee approval of the final terms of the grant on the original grant date, we used the original grant date. Section 16 Officer Grants (Except the Former CEO) Section 16 Officers received Management Grants according to the same general Management Grant process described above. After August 2002, we filed timely Forms 4 for the Section 16 Officers within two days of a grant. When the list was finalized, grant information was provided to the Manager, who would enter the grant into Equity Edge, which was used to prepare and file the Forms 4. The Section 16 Officers typically took up to but no longer 52 Table of Contents than two days to file the Forms 4. Beginning in August 2001, the Former CEO had the authority to approve the grants to Section 16 Officers. We generally determined the original stated grant date is the most likely measurement date for Section 16 Officer grants after August 2002. Former CEO Grants Under the LTIP and the 2SIP, only the Compensation Committee could approve grants to the Former CEO. While Compensation Committee minutes generally stated approvals for grants, these minutes did not always specify the shares the Former CEO was to receive in the grant. The Former CEO was typically in attendance at the Compensation Committee meetings where the minutes reflect that option grants were discussed and approved. The minutes reflect the Former CEO was excused prior to his compensation being discussed. The number of APOL options granted to the Former CEO remained the same from 1998 through 2001. From 2001, specific approval for grants to the Former CEO was documented using Approval Memoranda signed by the Chairman of the Compensation Committee. By early 2001, approval was obtained verbally by the Former CEO and was typically later memorialized in an Approval Memorandum. Prior to August 2002, to the extent we were able to determine that evidence of Board or Compensation Committee approval existed, we concluded the original grant date was the most likely measurement date. If we were unable to determine that evidence of approval existed for a grant, we used the Equity Edge Record Added Date as the measurement date. As discussed above for the Section 16 Officers, after August 2002, the Former CEO began filing Forms 4 with the SEC within two days of a grant. We generally concluded the original stated grant date is the most likely measurement date after August 2002, based on the history of the filing process for Forms 4 after a grant. Director Grants We grant options to non employee directors on an annual basis. From December 6, 1994 through September 1, 2003, we granted annual Director Grants pursuant to the Apollo Director Stock Plan (DSP), which was approved on and effective as of August 5, 1994. The DSP provisions stated that each director received a defined number of stock options on a defined date and price on the date of grant. As a result, we generally concluded that the original stated grant date was the most likely measurement date for Director Grants made under the DSP. Subsequent to September 1, 2003, the Director Grants were made pursuant to the 2SIP. Forms 4 were prepared in the same manner as the Section 16 Officers discussed above, except that the forms were emailed to the Directors for signatures. As a result, after September 2003, we concluded the original stated grant date is the most likely measurement date based on the history of our granting process for Forms 4. Faculty Grants Each qualifying faculty member was eligible to receive one Faculty Grant per calendar year. Starting in fiscal year 1999, each qualifying faculty member received a fixed number of shares annually. The Faculty Grants were issued to eligible faculty that met certain previously communicated criteria. Faculty Grants were awarded under both the LTIP and 2SIP; however, provisions do not specifically address Faculty Grants. Detailed Faculty Grant information was posted to the Company website and in the Faculty Handbook, including the frequency and timing of the grants for the upcoming year. The strike price per share was to be equal to the closing price on the grant date or the nearest day before the grant date if it fell on a weekend or holiday, pursuant to the plan. In most cases, grants were entered into Equity Edge by the Manager and then a few days later Human Resources sent a grant email to faculty. After 2000, Faculty Grants are also uploaded nightly to an external third party broker dealers system and automatically downloaded into the individual employee brokerage accounts that same night. As a result of the pre defined criteria, we determined that the original stated grant date was generally the most likely measurement date. In certain instances, we noted that certain faculty met the pre established criteria but were not included in the appropriate quarterly/semi annual stated grant. Because they met all the criteria at the stated grant date and had completed an Eligibility Checklist, they should have received an award on that date but were left 53 Table of Contents off due to administrative delay. Therefore, we determined the most likely measurement date was the date of the quarterly/semi annual grant date in which the award should have been included. Individual Grants We also granted options to certain employees on an ad hoc basis throughout the year for various reasons such as new hire, transfer, promotion, etc. These options were granted pursuant to the LTIP or the 2SIP, and the terms normally matched all terms in the grant agreements used for the Management Grant issued during that same fiscal year. Prior to 2001, all of the information and approvals required to establish a proper measurement date for certain grants were either not documented or we lacked sufficient evidence as to whether such information and approvals were obtained by the originally selected grant date. Beginning in August 2001, the Former CEO picked the grant date and determined the number of shares. We normally did not document these types of option grants in a letter or in the employees personnel file. The individuals were notified of their grants either verbally or via an email from Human Resources. Certain grants were documented via an Approval Memorandum signed by the Former CEO after August 2001, as discussed in the Management Grants discussion above. The grant was entered into Equity Edge following the process described above for Management Grants. We similarly concluded that the Equity Edge Record Added Date is the most likely measurement date for Individual Grants. Income Tax Related Matters Section 162(m) In relation to the Restatement, certain tax deductions in prior years with respect to compensation attributable to the exercise of certain stock options by executive officers may be in question. Under IRC Section 162(m), the amount of such deduction per covered executive officer is limited to $1.0 million per year, except to the extent the compensation qualifies as performance based. Compensation attributable to options with revised measurement dates may not have qualified as performance based compensation. Accordingly, we may have claimed deductions with respect to those exercised options that were in excess of the limit imposed under IRC Section 162(m). As a result, we have accrued our best estimate with respect to potential tax liabilities, including interest and penalties for the taxable years 2003 through 2005 (which are currently our only open years subject to adjustment for federal tax purposes), of approximately $41.1 million as of August 31, 2006. These accruals have been recorded because we believe it is more likely than not that the deductions will be disallowed by the IRS. For prior periods where a liability existed and where the statute of limitations has expired, the accrual relating to that period has been reversed in the appropriate period. Section 409A The revised measurement dates for certain stock options discussed above may result in adverse tax consequences to holders of those options under IRC Section 409A. Section 409A was enacted in 2004 to impose certain restrictions on deferred compensation arrangements, including limitations on the subsequent distribution of deferred amounts. Deferred compensation for this purpose is defined very broadly and, as a result, includes in that definition, options granted at a discounted exercise price, to the extent those options vest after December 31, 2004 (409A Affected Options). Therefore, the revised measurement dates for the options discussed above could subject the options that vest after calendar year 2004 to treatment as 409A Affected Options. Each holder of a 409A Affected Option would recognize taxable income on the option spread at the time of vesting (or, for 409A Affected Options exercised in calendar years 2006 or 2007, at the time of exercise) and would incur, in addition to regular income taxes, an additional 20% penalty tax on such spread and interest. Similar penalty taxes could apply under state tax laws. We are subject to certain reporting and withholding obligations with respect to the taxable income on the option spread. (1) Unexercised 409A Affected Options Section 16 Officers: In December 2006, we entered into irrevocable written agreements with each of our Section 16 Officers and certain Former Section 16 Officers, holding 409A Affected Options pursuant to which those 54 Table of Contents options were to be brought into compliance with Section 409A, and thereby would avoid the adverse tax consequences summarized above, through either of the following alternatives: (a) amendment of the option to increase the exercise price to the market price per share of our Class A common stock on the revised measurement date or (b) the optionees commitment to exercise the option (to the extent in the money) during the 2007 calendar year prior to its contractual expiration date. Generally, these amendments will be treated as a modification of the option under SFAS 123(R). However, in this circumstance, there are no accounting consequences under SFAS 123(R). Non Section 16 Officers: An offer to amend the 409A Affected Options held by non Section 16 Officers to increase the exercise price to the market price per share of the underlying Class A common stock on the revised measurement date cannot be made until after this Annual Report on Form 10 K and all other delinquent filings are filed with the SEC. In order to avoid adverse taxation under Section 409A, this amendment must be made on or before the earlier of (i) December 31, 2007 or (ii) the exercise of the 409A Affected Options during the 2007 calendar year. We anticipate that we will commence such an offer after the filing of this Annual Report and all other delinquent filings. As part of the offer and amendment process under IRC Section 409A, we may provide bonuses to the holders of the amended options to compensate them for the resulting increase in their stock option exercise price. However, we have not yet made a decision to implement a bonus program to compensate either the Section 16 Officers or the non Section 16 Officers resulting from the increased exercise prices. A decision to compensate for increased prices through a bonus would represent a modification to the grant and would result in accounting consequences under SFAS 123(R). (2) Exercised 409A Affected Options In February 2007, we elected to participate in a program announced by the Internal Revenue Service in Notice 2007 30, which pertains to 409A Affected Options exercised by non Section 16 Officers during the calendar year 2006 and which allows us to pay the penalty tax and interest due to the related measurement date changes that would otherwise be payable by the option holders who exercised the 409A Affected Options. The payment of the tax penalty and interest on behalf of the option holders in 2007 will result in additional taxable income to the option holders. As such, we will pay on behalf of or reimburse the option holders for applicable payroll and income taxes related to the additional income, as well as provide a gross up for any tax consequences of the penalty tax and interest reimbursement we make. We recorded a pre tax liability in the second quarter of 2007 for compensation expense under this program totaling approximately $2.6 million. Restatement Adjustments (1) Share Based Compensation As discussed above, we have restated our financial results to record additional share based compensation expense. (2) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts During the year ended August 31, 2006, we concluded that a significant increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts was required. A portion of the increase has been determined to be the correction of an error from prior periods and is included in the accompanying financial statements as an element of the Restatement. This error related to the fact that in prior years we did not properly consider available information related to (a) the cumulative differences between actual write offs and our allowance for doubtful accounts and (b) significant increases in the Return to Lender dollars for Title IV recipients who withdraw from UPX or WIU. When a student with Title IV loans withdraws from UPX or WIU, we are sometimes required to return a portion of Title IV funds to the lenders. We are generally entitled to collect these funds from the students, but the collection of these receivables is significantly lower than our collection of receivables from students who remain in our educational programs. Accordingly, we have restated our allowances for doubtful accounts for all prior periods presented. This error resulted in adjustments to pre tax bad debt expense in the amounts of $11.7 million ($7.1 million after tax) and $4.1 million ($2.5 million after tax) for the fiscal years ended 2005 and 2004, respectively. 55 Table of Contents (3) Other Adjustments We concluded that the accounting for various accounts such as cash, revenue, property and equipment, lease accounting and other investments was not properly recorded in accordance with GAAP. Specifically, the impairment in a venture capital fund investment should have been recorded in an earlier period; cash related to scholarships, grants, and refunds should have been classified as restricted cash and student deposits; different assumptions should have been used in determining the fair value of options; certain share based compensation was improperly amortized amongst quarters; auction rate securities were improperly classified as cash and cash equivalents in certain periods; and certain revenue under tuition discount programs were not properly recorded. Certain of these errors resulted in adjustments to pre tax expense shown in other adjustments in the table below. Adjustments to our lease accounting resulted in a net increase in expense of $2.6 million and $0.7 million for the years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and adjustments to the balance sheet of $2.6 million as of August 31, 2005. Specifically, we determined that the accounting for our tenant improvement allowances was not in accordance with GAAP. As part of the Restatement, the errors in our accounting for the tenant improvement allowances were corrected and certain of our operating leases now have been properly accounted for as capital leases. These adjustment amounts are included in Other Adjustments in the table below. (4) Tax Effect of Adjustments The tax effect of the Restatement adjustments is shown below. Impact of the Restatement As a result of the Restatement, retained earnings as of September 1, 2003 has been adjusted from $765.2 million to $702.7 million. The financial information presented in this Item 7 has been adjusted to reflect the incremental impact resulting from the Restatement adjustments discussed above, as follows: Summary of Impact of Restatement Adjustments Tax Effect of Adjustments(4) Share Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Penalty Based Total Related to Related to and Tax Effect Total Total Compensation Bad Debt Other Adjustments, Share Based Bad Debt Interest on of 162(m) Tax Adjustments, Fiscal Year Expense(1) Expense(2) Adjustments(3) Pre Tax Compensation and Other Total Exercises Limitation Effect Net of Tax ($ in thousands) 1994 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1995 176 176 (71 ) (71 ) (71 ) 105 1996 1997 397 397 (160 ) (160 ) (160 ) 237 1998 487 487 (196 ) (196 ) 21 67 (108 ) 379 1999 652 652 (262 ) (262 ) 92 277 107 759 2000 2,091 2,091 (841 ) (841 ) 268 757 184 2,275 2001 28,001 28,001 (11,256 ) (11,256 ) 1,307 3,821 (6,128 ) 21,873 2002 22,782 4,576 4,058 31,416 (9,158 ) (3,471 ) (12,629 ) 3,334 3,628 (5,667 ) 25,749 2003 8,294 3,600 918 12,812 (3,314 ) (1,805 ) (5,119 ) 3,350 84 (1,685 ) 11,127 Cumulative effect on September 1, 2003 opening retained earnings 62,880 8,176 4,976 76,032 (25,258 ) (5,276 ) (30,534 ) 8,372 8,634 (13,528 ) 62,504 2004 (14,929 ) 4,103 808 (10,018 ) 5,941 (1,954 ) 3,987 2,541 1,179 7,707 (2,311 ) 2005 4,935 11,701 (1,233 ) 15,403 (1,963 ) (4,163 ) (6,126 ) 4,050 3,471 1,395 16,798 Total $ 52,886 $ 23,980 $ 4,551 $ 81,417 $ (21,280 ) $ (11,393 ) $ (32,673 ) $ 14,963 $ 13,284 $ (4,426 ) $ 76,991 (1), (2), (3), (4) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a detailed summary of adjustments. Pro Forma Share Based Compensation Expense The footnotes to our previously issued financial statements for the years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004, disclosed pro forma net income in accordance with SFAS 123. This pro forma disclosure also included errors not 56 Table of Contents related to measurement date changes in the amount of $19.8 million ($11.9 million after tax) and $123.5 million ($74.4 million after tax) for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004, respectively. These errors arose from the misapplication of SFAS 123 to our UPX Online stock options which were converted to APOL options. Specifically, our footnote disclosure understated pro forma net income because it erroneously included deductions for pro forma share based compensation based on the intrinsic value of the converted options as computed under APB 25 rather than the fair value of the converted options as computed under SFAS 123. Changes to Controls, Processes and Procedures Management is committed to remediating the control deficiencies that constitute the material weaknesses described herein by implementing changes to our internal control over financial reporting. For its stock option grants, management has implemented or has plans to implement all of the improvements in internal control over financial reporting suggested as a result of the Independent Review into stock option granting practices. Management plans to continue to implement further changes and improvements during the remainder of the current fiscal year. In addition, management has established procedures to consider the ongoing effectiveness of both the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. We have implemented a number of significant changes and improvements in our internal control over financial reporting during the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2007. Our President and CFO of the Company have taken responsibility to implement changes and improvements in the internal control over financial reporting and remediate the control deficiencies that gave rise to the material weaknesses. Specifically, these changes include: Management We engaged our new Chief Financial Officer on November 14, 2006. We engaged our Corporate Controller effective December 15, 2006, who was subsequently appointed our new Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer on February 6, 2007. We hired a new Vice President, Controller of Accounting. We hired a new Vice President of Tax. We appointed a new Stock Option Plan Administrator in January 2007 to work under the supervision of and report to the new Chief Financial Officer. We are conducting a search for an experienced and well qualified individual to serve as our General Counsel. Outside Legal Counsel; Board of Directors and Committees We considered and adopted the recommendations of the Special Committee with respect to procedures, processes and controls related to stock option grants. We hired Morgan, Lewis Bockius LLP (Morgan Lewis) as counsel to the Company with respect to reporting with the SEC, options and related matters, tax matters and corporate governance matters. Morgan Lewis is an experienced counsel with regard to stock plan administration. We added two independent directors to the Board of Directors. The members of the Audit Committee changed in 2007. The Chairman of the Audit Committee resigned from that committee. The Board appointed a new Chairperson of the Audit Committee, with the requisite experience. The Audit Committee revised and adopted its charter to reflect additional policies, processes, procedures and controls. The members of the Compensation Committee completely changed in 2007. The Chairman of the Compensation Committee resigned from the Board, and the Board appointed a new Chairman of the Compensation Committee who had not been previously involved in the option grant process. In addition, the Board expanded the size of the Compensation Committee to three members. 57 Table of Contents The Compensation Committee suspended the exercise of stock options until we are in compliance with our periodic reporting requirements under the Act, as amended, and retained Pearl, Meyer Partners (Pearl Meyer) to provide consulting advice related to compensation. The Compensation Committee revised and adopted its charter to reflect additional policies, processes, procedures and controls as noted below. For example, minutes of all Compensation Committee meetings are prepared timely and documentation for stock option grants are included as attachments to such minutes. The Company also now requires all stock options to be granted by the Compensation Committee, as now reflected in an amendment to the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan adopted by the Board in March 2007. The Charter of the Compensation Committee requires all grants under the Companys stock option plans (other than new hire grants) to be made within a designated period following the release of financial results for the prior fiscal quarter or fiscal year. Policies, Processes, Procedures and Controls We are monitoring industry and regulatory developments in stock option awards, with the intent to implement and maintain best practices with respect to grants of equity based compensation awards. We have enhanced and standardized the process and documentation required for (i) the granting, exercise and cancellation of all equity based compensation awards, (ii) analyzing the required allowance for doubtful accounts balance and (iii) the use of third party firms for valuation and other services. Accounting personnel are now conducting quarterly (or annual) reviews and reconciliations related to equity based compensation award activity, allowance for doubtful accounts activity and the valuation of goodwill. The CFO and or the CAO will specifically review and approve each of these calculations. Employees previously involved in key roles or the decision making process for each of the material weaknesses are no longer involved in the process. We have retained third party stock option software administration professionals to assist with the understanding of our stock option administration software and to train our employees that are involved in the stock option administration process. Our Internal Audit reporting line has been clarified such that the Director of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee. Executive Summary We have been an education provider for more than 30 years, operating University of Phoenix, Inc. (UPX), Institute for Professional Development, Inc. (IPD), The College for Financial Planning Institutes Corporation (CFP), Western International University, Inc. (WIU) and Insight Schools, Inc., all of which are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. We offer innovative and distinctive educational programs and services from high school through college level at 99 campuses and 163 learning centers in 39 states, Puerto Rico, Alberta, British Columbia, The Netherlands and Mexico, as well as online throughout the world. Our combined Degreed Enrollment for UPX and Axia College as of August 31, 2006 was approximately 282,300. In addition, students are enrolled in WIU, CFP and IPD Client Institutions, and additional non degreed students are enrolled in UPX. See Customers/Students in Item 1 of this Report. Degreed Enrollments represent individual students enrolled in our degree programs who attended a course during the quarter and did not graduate as of the end of the quarter (including Axia students enrolled in UPX and WIU). The non traditional education market is a significant and growing component of the post secondary education market, which is estimated by the U.S. Department of Education to be a more than $343.0 billion industry. According to the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, over 6.5 million, or 39%, of all students enrolled in higher education programs are over the age of 24. A large percentage of these students would not be classified as traditional (i.e., living on campus, supported by parents and not working). The non traditional students typically are looking to improve their skills and enhance their earnings potential within the context of their careers. Between 2002 and 2014, the percentage of 18 to 24 year old students is expected to 58 Table of Contents increase 16%. The market for non traditional education should continue to increase reflecting the rapidly expanding knowledge based economy. The National Center for Education Statistics projects an increase of 11% in enrollments of persons under age 25 and an increase of 15% in persons age 25 and over during the period of 2004 to 2014. During 2006, we experienced the following significant events: 1. Senior Management Changes three members of our senior management team left Apollo Group. Todd Nelson, our Former President and CEO, Laura Palmer Noone, our former President of UPX, and Bob Carroll, our former Chief Information Officer (CIO), were replaced by three very capable and experienced executives: Brian E. Mueller is our new President, Dr. William J. Pepicello is our new President of the University of Phoenix, and Joseph N. Mildenhall is our new CIO. We believe these changes are very positive for our future growth prospects and are confident that those individuals will perform well in these roles. 2. Enrollment and Revenue Growth While Investing in our Business for the Future Despite the management changes discussed above, we were able to achieve 5.4% average quarterly Degreed Enrollment growth in 2006 versus 2005, which resulted in 10.1% increase in revenue. These increases help fund a significant portion of our investment in product development and marketing and lead generation to ensure our continued growth and viability in the future. 3. Stock Option Investigation In response to a report published by an investment bank in June 2006, our Board of Directors established the Special Committee and authorized it to retain independent legal counsel, who in turn retained forensic accountants, to assist them in conducting the Independent Review. On December 15, 2006, we announced in a Form 8 K that the Special Committee presented the final factual findings of the Independent Review to the Board of Directors. The findings and results are discussed elsewhere in this document. With the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and all other delinquent filings, we have substantially completed the processes related to the stock option investigation and restatement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. We believe that our critical accounting policies, which involve a higher degree of judgments, estimates and complexity, are as follows: Revenue Recognition Tuition and other net revenues consist largely of tuition and fees associated with different educational programs as well as related educational resources such as printed text books and access to online materials, and are shown net of discounts relating to a variety of promotional programs including military discounts, special promotional incentives designed to generate new student enrollment, early payment discounts and other incentives. 59 Table of Contents The following table presents the most significant components as percentages of total tuition and other, net revenue for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 Restated(1) Restated(1) ($ in millions) Tuition revenue $ 2,304.3 93.0 % $ 2,114.1 93.9 % $ 1,679.0 93.3 % IPD services revenue 74.4 3.0 % 69.5 3.1 % 62.6 3.5 % Application and related fees 33.8 1.4 % 36.4 1.6 % 28.7 1.6 % Online course material revenue 138.7 5.6 % 104.5 4.6 % 69.1 3.8 % Other revenue 31.7 1.3 % 33.8 1.5 % 23.0 1.3 % Tuition and other revenue, gross 2,582.9 104.3 % 2,358.3 104.7 % 1,862.4 103.5 % Less: Discounts (105.4 ) (4.3 )% (107.2 ) (4.7 )% (62.4 ) (3.5 )% Tuition and other revenue, net $ 2,477.5 100.0 % $ 2,251.1 100.0 % $ 1,800.0 100.0 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Tuition revenue encompasses both online and classroom based learning. Tuition revenue is recognized pro rata, on a weekly basis, over the period of instruction as services are delivered to students. During certain periods of the year and in certain businesses, we adjust our revenue recognition to account for holiday breaks such as Christmas and Thanksgiving. IPD services revenues consist of the contractual share of tuition revenues from students enrolled in IPD programs at Client Institutions. IPD contracts with Client Institutions to provide services including, but not limited to, management consulting and training; program development; program administration; instructor and student recruiting; and student accounting, collection and recordkeeping. The contractual share varies by contract and may change over time. Our contractual share ranges between 30% and 50%. Contracts generally have terms of 10 years with provisions for renewal. The portion of service revenue to which we are entitled under the terms of the contracts is recognized on a pro rata basis as defined. Application and related fees consist of the fees students pay when submitting an enrollment application and the application costs related to the expenses associated with processing the applications. Both the fees and the costs are deferred and recognized over the average length of time it takes for a student to complete a program of study. Online course material revenue relates to online course materials delivered to students over the period of instruction. Revenue associated with these materials is recognized pro rata over the period of the related course to correspond with delivery of the materials to students. Other revenue is primarily composed of non tuition generating revenues, such as renting classroom space and other student support services. This revenue is recognized as these services are provided. Goodwill Goodwill is primarily the result of our acquisition of CFP, which was acquired in September 1997. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142) addresses goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives and prescribes that these assets will not be amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if circumstances arise indicating potential impairment. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit containing goodwill exceeds the fair value of that reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount of the goodwill. This pronouncement provides specific guidance on performing impairment tests for goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill requires judgment. In assessing the fair value of our reporting units, we make estimates about the future cash flows of our reporting units. Our cash flow forecast is based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company is using to manage the 60 Table of Contents underlying businesses. Other factors we consider include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner or use of the acquired assets or the overall business strategy, and significant negative industry or economic trends. If our estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record non cash impairment charges for these assets. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets and liabilities to the balance sheets for our reporting units. We have engaged a third party valuation expert to assist in evaluating the fair values of our reporting units. We have selected August 31 as the date on which we perform our annual goodwill impairment test. As of August 31, 2006, we concluded that the goodwill for CFP was impaired in the amount of $20.2 million. This impairment was included in our Other Schools segment In performing our annual impairment test, we assessed the recoverability of the goodwill by evaluating the future discounted cash flows and the fair value of CFPs tangible and intangible assets. The total discounted future cash flows was determined to be significantly less than our original expectations due to slower than forecasted revenue growth. After the impairment charge, the remaining goodwill totaled $16.9 million, which represents approximately 1.3% of total assets. There are no other long lived assets at CFP that we believe are impaired. Additional impairments could affect future results of operations. Share Based Compensation See also Item 8, Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, for the discussion of the Restatement related to our stock option grants. Prior to September 1, 2005, we accounted for all employee and non employee director share based compensation awards using the intrinsic value method under APB 25, and provided the required disclosures in accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS 123). On September 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)), using the modified prospective transition method. Under both APB 25 and SFAS 123(R), the requisite service period over which share based compensation is expensed generally equals the vesting periods of the awards. Under SFAS 123(R), our share based compensation is based on the fair value of the option at the grant date. The fair value is affected by the stock price, as well as the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model (the BSM) valuation assumptions, including the volatility of the stock price, expected term of the option, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. We use the BSM for estimating the fair value on the date of the grant of stock options. We used the following weighted average assumptions in the BSM: For the Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 Restated(1) Expected volatility 34.6% 30.2% 38.7% Expected life (years) 5.9 3.9 3.2 Risk free interest rate 4.8% 3.4% 3.2% Dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. The assumptions that have the most significant affect on the fair value of the grants and therefore, share based compensation expense, are the expected life and expected volatility. The following table illustrates how changes to the BSM assumptions would affect the weighted average per option fair values as of the grant date for grants made during fiscal year 2006: Expected Volatility Expected Life (years) 32.5% 34.6% 36.6% 4.4 $ 21.62 $ 22.36 $ 23.09 5.9 25.25 26.06 26.87 7.5 28.25 29.10 29.95 61 Table of Contents Sensitivity Analysis Stock Option Restatement In connection with the Restatement, we determined that during the period from June 1994 through September 2006, we applied incorrect measurement dates in our accounting for certain stock options. Based on the available facts and circumstances surrounding our stock option granting practices, we adopted a methodology for determining the most likely measurement dates. We believe the application of this methodology indicated the most likely date when the number of options granted to each employee was approved and the exercise price and number of shares were known with finality. When there was not conclusive documentation or evidence of an earlier date, we believe the best indication of finality and approval is the Equity Edge Record Added Date. However, we acknowledge that many of the measurement date conclusions are dependent on the facts and circumstances of each stock option grant and involved the application of significant judgment. Because the revised measurement date is subjective, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact of using alternative measurement dates for certain grants other than the Equity Edge Record Added Date. We performed the sensitivity analysis to the annual Management and Individual Grants issued under APB 25 for the period June 1994 through August 31, 2005. This sensitivity analysis also included the stock options issued to the Former CEO from June 1994 through October 2002 (the date when we began filing timely Forms 4) to the extent the Equity Edge Record Added Date was used as the most likely measurement date. To perform the sensitivity analysis, we used the highest and lowest market price of APOL or UPX Online stock for the period from the original grant date to the revised measurement date. For the Management and Individual grants issued under APB 25, the Restatement resulted in a pre tax increase in share based compensation expense of $52.9 million from the amounts previously reported. The use of the low stock prices during the period from the stated grant date to the revised measurement date instead of the price on the revised measurement date would result in no increase in share based compensation expense from the amounts previously reported. The use of the high stock prices during the period from the stated grant date to the revised measurement date instead of the price on the revised measurement date would result in a pre tax increase of $8.9 million from the share based compensation expense reflected in the Restatement. We believe our methodology, based on the best evidence available, results in the most likely measurement date for our stock option grants. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts See also Item 8, Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, for the discussion of the Restatement related to our allowance for doubtful accounts. We extend unsecured credit to a portion of the students who are enrolled at our schools and programs, and based upon past experience and current trends, we establish an allowance for doubtful accounts with respect to tuition receivables. Our allowance estimation methodology has been refined and considers a number of factors that, based on collections history, we believe have an impact on our ability to collect student receivables. We monitor our collections and write off experience and periodically determine whether adjustments to our allowance percentage estimates are necessary. As a result, we believe that our allowance estimation methodology reflects historical trends as well as our most recent collections experience and reasonably estimates future losses attributable to receivable write offs. Our standard allowance estimation methodology is periodically evaluated for sufficiency by management and modified as necessary. Changes to the design of our standard allowance estimation methodology, including our allowance percentage estimates, may impact our estimate of our allowance for doubtful accounts and our financial results. When a student with Title IV loans withdraws from UPX or WIU, we are sometimes required to return a portion of Title IV funds to the lenders. We are generally entitled to collect these funds from the students, but collection of these receivables is significantly lower than our collection of receivables from students who remain in our educational programs. An increase in the amount of Return to Lender and a lower collection rate is factored into the determination of an appropriate allowance amount. 62 Table of Contents A one percentage point change in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of gross student receivables as of August 31, 2006, would have resulted in a pre tax change in net income of $2.1 million ($1.3 million after tax). Additionally, if our allowance for doubtful accounts was to change by 1% of tuition and other revenues, net for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, we would have recorded a pre tax change in net income of approximately $24.8 million ($14.9 million after tax). Accounts receivable are written off when the account is deemed to be uncollectible. This typically occurs once we have exhausted all efforts to collect the account, which includes collection attempts by our employees and outside collection agencies. Insurance Reserves We record liabilities for claims and related expenses that are estimable and probable related to our self insured medical and dental insurance programs in accordance with the contractual terms of the insurance policies. Accounting for insurance liabilities that are self insured involves uncertainty because estimates and judgments are used to determine the ultimate liability for reported claims as well as claims incurred but not reported. We consider our historical experience in determining the appropriate insurance reserves. We record reserves for claims incurred but not recorded assuming a 45 day lag in the submission of claims. The following table displays the required increase or decrease to the insurance reserve if current claim lag time trends differed from our historical claim lag time experience: Pre Tax (Decrease) Claim Lag Time Increase ($ in millions) 30 days $ (2.7 ) 45 days 60 days 2.7 Loss Contingencies In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS 5), when we become aware of a claim or potential claim, the likelihood of any loss or exposure is assessed. If it is probable that a loss will result and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the loss. The liability recorded includes probable and estimable legal costs associated with the claim or potential claim. If the loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose the claim if the likelihood of a potential loss is reasonably possible and the amount is material. For matters where no loss contingency is recorded, our policy is to expense legal fees as incurred. Accounting for Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted laws and tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Management judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and, in particular, whether or not a valuation allowance should be recorded against our deferred tax assets. In relation to the Restatement, certain tax deductions in prior years with respect to compensation attributable to the exercise of certain stock options by executive officers may be in question. Under IRC Section 162(m), the amount of such deduction per covered executive officer is limited to $1.0 million per year, except to the extent the compensation qualifies as performance based. Compensation attributable to options with revised measurement dates may not have qualified as performance based compensation. Accordingly, we may have claimed deductions with respect to those exercised options that were in excess of the limit imposed under IRC Section 162(m). As a result, we have accrued our best estimate with respect to potential tax liabilities, including interest and penalties for 63 Table of Contents the taxable years 2003 through 2005 (which are currently our only open years subject to adjustment for federal tax purposes), of approximately $41.1 million as of August 31, 2006. These accruals have been recorded because we believe it is more likely than not that the deductions will be disallowed by the IRS. For prior periods where a liability existed and where the statute of limitations has expired, the accrual relating to that period has been reversed in the appropriate period. Results of Operations We have included below a discussion of our operating results and significant items which explain the material changes in our operating results during the last three years. All comparative statements and historical financial information discussed is based on the restated financial statements for the periods presented prior to the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006. The following table sets forth an analysis of our Consolidated Statements of Income for fiscal years ended 2006, 2005, and 2004: % of Revenues % Change Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, 2006 vs. 2005 vs. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 Restated(1) Restated(1) Restated(1) ($ in millions, except percentages) Revenues: Tuition and other, net $ 2,477.5 $ 2,251.1 $ 1,800.0 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 10.1 % 25.1 % Costs and expenses: Instructional costs and services 1,112.7 956.6 781.4 44.9 % 42.5 % 43.4 % 16.3 % 22.4 % Selling and promotional 544.7 485.5 383.8 22.0 % 21.6 % 21.3 % 12.2 % 26.5 % General and administrative 149.9 94.5 84.3 6.1 % 4.2 % 4.7 % 58.6 % 12.1 % Goodwill impairment 20.2 0.8 % Share based compensation(2) 16.9 100.3 0.7 % 5.6 % 1,827.5 1,553.5 1,349.8 73.8 % 69.0 % 75.0 % 17.6 % 15.1 % Income from operations 650.0 697.6 450.2 26.2 % 31.0 % 25.0 % (6.8 )% 55.0 % Interest income and other, net 18.1 16.8 16.3 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.9 % 7.7 % 3.1 % Income before income taxes 668.1 714.4 466.5 26.9 % 31.7 % 25.9 % (6.5 )% 53.1 % Provision for income taxes 253.3 286.5 186.4 10.2 % 12.7 % 10.4 % (11.6 )% 53.7 % Net income $ 414.8 $ 427.9 $ 280.1 16.7 % 19.0 % 15.5 % (3.1 )% 52.8 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. (2) Share based compensation in 2005 and 2004 is related to the 2004 conversion of the UPX Online stock options into Apollo Group Class A stock options. Share based compensation expense resulting from the revised measurement dates is included in instructional costs and services, selling and promotional, and general and administrative expenses. We categorize our expenses as instructional costs and services, selling and promotional, and general and administrative. Instructional costs and services at UPX, WIU, and the CFP consist primarily of costs related to the delivery and administration of our educational programs and include faculty compensation, administrative salaries for departments that provide service directly to the students, financial aid processing costs, the costs of educational materials sold, facility leases and other occupancy costs, bad debt expense, technology spending in support of student systems and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. UPX and WIU faculty members are primarily contracted for one course offering at a time. All classroom facilities are leased or, in some cases, are provided by the students employers at no charge to us. Instructional costs and services at IPD consist primarily of program 64 Table of Contents administration, student services, and classroom lease expense. Most of the other instructional costs for IPD assisted programs, including faculty, financial aid processing, and other administrative salaries, are the responsibility of IPDs Client Institutions. Selling and promotional costs consist primarily of compensation and employee benefits for enrollment counselors, management and support staff, corporate marketing, advertising, production of marketing materials, and other costs related to selling and promotional functions. We expense selling and promotional costs as incurred. General and administrative costs consist primarily of administrative salaries, occupancy costs, depreciation and amortization, and other related costs for departments such as executive management, information systems, corporate accounting, human resources, and other departments that do not provide direct services to our students. To the extent possible, we centralize these services to avoid duplication of effort. Tuition and Other, Net Revenues Information about our tuition and other net revenues by reportable segment on a percentage basis is as follows: Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 UPX 83.7 % 89.5 % 94.4 % Other Schools 16.2 % 10.4 % 5.4 % Corporate 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Tuition and other, net 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Our tuition and other revenues, net increased by 10.1% in 2006 primarily due to a 5.4% increase in average quarterly Degreed Enrollments and selective tuition price increases depending on the geographic area and program. These increases include a 113.0% increase in average quarterly Degreed Enrollments in our lower tuition associates degree programs. As of August 31, 2006, 26.2% of our students are Degreed Enrollments in associates degree programs compared with 15.4% of our students as of August 31, 2005. Our tuition and other revenues, net increased by 25.1% in 2005 primarily due to an 18.2% increase in average quarterly Degreed Enrollments and generally a 4 6% increase in average tuition prices (depending on the geographic area and program). The remaining increase is related to increased pricing and higher sales of online course materials. Tuition and other revenues, net at Other Schools increased as a percentage of total revenues in 2005 and 2006 due to enrollment in associates degree programs at Axia College of WIU during 2005. Axia College began offering these programs in September 2004. In March 2006 (our third quarter of fiscal 2006), we began offering all Axia College programs within UPX, instead of WIU. Therefore, we expect the percentage of revenue within Other Schools to decrease in fiscal 2007. 65 Table of Contents Instructional Costs and Services Instructional costs and services increased by 16.3% in 2006 versus 2005, and 22.4% in 2005 versus 2004. The following table sets forth the increases in significant components of instructional costs and services: % of Revenues % Change Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, 2006 vs. 2005 vs. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 Restated (1) Restated (1) Restated (1) ($ in millions) Employee compensation and related expenses $ 382.3 $ 343.9 $ 282.5 15.4 % 15.3 % 15.7 % 11.2 % 21.7 % Faculty compensation 212.3 195.1 154.2 8.6 % 8.7 % 8.6 % 8.8 % 26.5 % Classroom lease expenses and depreciation 193.4 171.3 145.1 7.8 % 7.6 % 8.1 % 12.9 % 18.1 % Other instructional costs and services 158.2 142.0 122.3 6.4 % 6.3 % 6.8 % 11.4 % 16.1 % Bad debt expense 101.6 57.2 31.1 4.1 % 2.5 % 1.7 % 77.6 % 83.9 % Financial aid processing costs 52.5 43.3 32.4 2.1 % 1.9 % 1.8 % 21.2 % 33.6 % Share based compensation 12.4 3.8 4.0 0.5 % 0.2 % 0.2 % 226.3 % (5.0 )% U.S. Department of Education settlement 9.8 N/A N/A 0.5 % N/A N/A Instructional costs and services $ 1,112.7 $ 956.6 $ 781.4 44.9 % 42.5 % 43.4 % 16.3 % 22.4 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Instructional costs and services as a percentage of tuition and other net revenues increased in 2006 versus 2005 due primarily to an increase in bad debt expense. The increase is the result of increased aged accounts receivable and write offs as a result of increased student withdrawals and an increase in Return to Lender dollars for students who withdraw from UPX or WIU. When a student withdraws from UPX or WIU, we are sometimes required to return a certain portion of any disbursed student financial aid loans to the lender (Return to Lender dollars for Title IV recipients). We are generally entitled to collect these funds from the students, but collection on these receivables is significantly lower than receivables for students who remain in our educational programs. During the second half of our fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of 2005, we were required by regulatory authorities to modify our Return to Lender calculations when a student withdraws from UPX or WIU. These changes forced us to return additional dollars to the lenders than had previously been required. We attempt to collect these funds from our students but as a result of the increased Return to Lender dollars, our bad debt expense significantly increased in 2005 and 2006. Instructional costs and services as a percentage of tuition and other net revenues decreased in 2005 versus 2004 due primarily to greater tuition and other net revenues being spread over the fixed costs related to centralized student services. Additionally, a $9.8 million settlement with the U.S. Department of Education in 2004 related to the U.S. Department of Educations program review contributed to the decline. Finally, the impact of the changes related to Return to Lender dollars discussed above increased bad debt expense in 2005 versus 2004. 66 Table of Contents Selling and Promotional Expenses Selling and promotional expenses increased by 12.2% in 2006 versus 2005, and 26.5% in 2005 versus 2004. The following table sets forth the increases in significant components of selling and promotional expenses: % of Revenues % Change Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, 2006 vs. 2005 vs. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 Restated (1) Restated (1) Restated (1) ($ in millions) Enrollment advisors compensation and related expenses $ 254.3 $ 204.6 $ 155.6 10.3 % 9.1 % 8.6 % 24.3 % 31.5 % Advertising 231.6 224.0 174.6 9.3 % 10.0 % 9.7 % 3.4 % 28.3 % Other selling and promotional expenses 56.5 56.2 52.9 2.3 % 2.5 % 2.9 % 0.5 % 6.2 % Share based compensation 2.3 0.6 0.7 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 283.3 % (14.3 )% Selling and promotional expenses $ 544.7 $ 485.4 $ 383.8 22.0 % 21.6 % 21.3 % 12.2 % 26.5 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Selling and promotional expenses increased as a percentage of revenue in 2006 versus 2005 and in 2005 versus 2004 due primarily to an increase in the number of enrollment advisors to support leads for our Internet advertising campaign and the establishment of a national qualifying center for efficiency and timelines in lead distribution. We also increased the entry level pay for enrollment advisors in an attempt to bring in more highly qualified staff. Advertising costs increased in 2005 over 2004 as a result of a planned focus on investment in increasing Internet based leads. 67 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased 58.6% in 2006 versus 2005, and 12.1% in 2005 versus 2004. The following table sets forth the increases in significant components of general and administrative expenses: % of Revenues % Change Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, 2006 vs. 2005 vs. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 Restated (1) Restated (1) Restated (1) ($ in millions) Employee compensation and related expenses $ 73.7 $ 41.0 $ 41.8 3.0 % 1.8 % 2.3 % 79.8 % (1.9 )% Other general and administrative expenses 27.2 22.0 20.0 1.1 % 1.0 % 1.1 % 23.6 % 10.0 % Administrative space and depreciation 22.7 18.7 11.9 0.9 % 0.8 % 0.7 % 21.4 % 57.1 % Legal, audit, and corporate insurance 13.3 9.4 7.0 0.6 % 0.4 % 0.4 % 41.5 % 34.3 % Share based compensation 13.0 3.4 3.6 0.5 % 0.2 % 0.2 % 282.4 % (5.6 )% General and administrative expenses $ 149.9 $ 94.5 $ 84.3 6.1 % 4.2 % 4.7 % 58.6 % 12.1 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Included in 2006 employee compensation and related expenses are severance expenses related to the Former CEO of $26.0 million. Excluding this amount, general and administrative expenses increased $29.4 million, or 31.1%. This remaining increase is primarily due to: $3.9 million increase in legal, audit, and corporate insurance expenses primarily due to legal defense costs associated with class action complaints; $9.6 million increase in share based compensation charges primarily resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123(R); $4.0 million of increased administrative space and depreciation costs due to higher information technology spending primarily as a result of the opening of a new data center in August 2005; and other increases including increased employee headcount to support our growth in 2006. General and administrative expenses increased $10.2 million in 2005 versus 2004 due primarily to increases in employee compensation and related expenses and administrative space and depreciation, as a result of our new data center that was completed in the third quarter of 2005, and an increase in legal, audit and corporate insurance costs associated with our class action complaints. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill is primarily the result of our acquisition of CFP in September 1997. As of August 31, 2006, we concluded that the goodwill for CFP was impaired in the amount of $20.2 million. This impairment was included in our Other Schools segment. In performing our annual impairment test, we assessed the recoverability of the goodwill by evaluating the future discounted cash flows and the fair value of CFPs tangible and intangible assets. The total discounted future cash flows was determined to be significantly less than our original expectations due to slower than forecasted revenue growth. After the impairment charge, our remaining goodwill totaled $16.9 million, which represents approximately 1.3% of total assets. There are no other long lived assets at CFP that we believe are impaired. Additional impairment of this goodwill could affect future results of operations. 68 Table of Contents Share Based Compensation Conversion of UPX Stock Options The conversion of UPX Online common stock on August 27, 2004, required us to record a share based compensation charge related to the conversion of UPX Online stock options into Apollo Group Class A stock options. As required by Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Statement No. 00 23 Issues Related to the Accounting for Stock Compensation under APB 25 and FASB Interpretation No. 44 (EITF 00 23), we recognized pre tax share based compensation expense of $16.9 million, and $100.3 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, as options vested. Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net increased $1.3 million in 2006 versus 2005, and increased $0.5 million in 2005 versus 2004. The increase in 2006 was primarily attributable to an increase in interest rates partially offset by a decrease in average cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities. The $0.5 million increase in 2005 versus 2004 includes a $1.7 million non cash impairment in 2004 for the write down of an investment in a venture capital fund. Excluding this non cash impairment, interest income and other, net would have decreased in 2005 versus 2004 by $1.2 million. The decrease in 2005 was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities between periods primarily as a result of stock repurchases and capital expenditures, partially offset by increases in overall interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate decreased to 37.9% in 2006, from 40.1% in 2005, primarily as a result of a reduction in non deductible compensation and state taxes, combined with an increase in tax exempt interest. Our effective income tax rate was essentially flat between 2005 and 2004. Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchases, commitments, acquisitions and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations through at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. We believe that the most strategic uses of our cash resources include potential acquisition opportunities, possible repurchase of shares, and start up costs associated with new campuses. There are no transactions, arrangements, and other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons of whom we are aware of that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of our requirements for capital during at least the next 12 months. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased $49.9 million, or 10.9%, to $408.7 million as of August 31, 2006 from $458.6 million as of August 31, 2005. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities represented 35.8% and 31.9% of our total assets as of August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2006, respectively. The reduction was primarily due to $514.9 million of repurchases of Apollo Group Class A common stock and $111.2 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $551.0 million and cash provided by the issuance of Apollo Group Class A common stock of $29.0 million. 69 Table of Contents Cash Flows Operating Activities. Operating activities provided $551.0 million in cash during 2006 compared to providing $549.6 million in 2005. Included below is a summary of our operating cash flows: Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 Restated ($ in millions) Net income $ 414.8 $ 427.9 Non cash items 180.0 174.0 Changes in certain operating assets and liabilities (43.8 ) (52.3 ) Net cash from operating activities $ 551.0 $ 549.6 Our non cash items primarily consist of the following: Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 Restated ($ in millions) Share based compensation $ 27.7 $ 24.8 Excess tax benefits from share based compensation (17.5 ) Tax benefits from stock options exercised 42.6 Depreciation and amortization 67.3 45.6 Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable 101.0 57.1 Other, net 1.5 3.9 $ 180.0 $ 174.0 Changes in certain operating assets and liabilities primarily consist of the following (in millions): Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 Restated ($ in millions) Accounts receivable, net $ (89.0 ) $ (99.9 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 20.4 (20.1 ) Student deposits 11.5 31.0 Deferred revenue 1.9 26.3 Other, net 11.4 10.4 $ (43.8 ) $ (52.3 ) Days sales outstanding (DSO) in accounts receivable as of August 31, 2006 and 2005, were 32 days and 34 days, respectively. Our accounts receivable and DSO are primarily affected by collections performance. Investing Activities. Investing activities provided $95.6 million in cash during 2006 compared to $193.5 million in 2005. The 2006 amount primarily includes net maturities of marketable securities including auction rate securities of $216.2 million, partially offset by $111.2 million of capital expenditures, which includes $66.6 million related to the build out of our new corporate headquarters building in Phoenix, Arizona. The 2005 amount primarily includes net maturities of marketable securities including auction rate securities of $286.6 million, partially offset by $94.5 million of capital expenditures, including $5.7 million for our new corporate headquarters. We expect to 70 Table of Contents spend $90.0 to $110.0 million on capital expenditures in 2007, of which approximately $40 50 million will be utilized for our new corporate headquarters building. On June 20, 2006, we entered into an option agreement (which was amended in November 2006) with Macquarie Riverpoint AZ, LLC (Macquarie). The option agreement allows us to execute a sale and simultaneous leaseback of the new corporate headquarters buildings located in Phoenix, Arizona. We anticipate beginning to occupy this building late in fiscal year 2007 and finishing construction by the end of the third quarter of 2008. In the third quarter of 2008, we anticipate executing the sale lease back option. When the sale leaseback option is exercised, we anticipate receiving approximately $170 million in cash for the building and land, and expect to generate a gain on the sale for approximately $20 30 million. The gain will be deferred over the 12 year term of the lease agreement. Financing Activities. Financing activities used $474.8 million of cash during 2006 compared to $755.4 million in 2005. These amounts primarily relate to repurchases of our Class A common stock, net of proceeds from stock option exercises. The Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase outstanding shares of Apollo Group Class A common stock, from time to time, depending on market conditions and other considerations. Shares of Apollo Group Class A common stock repurchased and reissued, and the related total cost, for the last two years is as follows: Maximum Average Value Total # of Price of Shares Shares Paid per Available for Repurchased Cost Share Repurchase (Numbers in millions, except per share amounts) Treasury stock as of August 31, 2004 $ $ $ 109.2 New authorizations 750.0 Shares repurchased 11.0 808.2 73.14 (808.2 ) Shares reissued (2.2 ) (162.5 ) 72.75 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2005 8.8 645.7 73.24 51.0 New authorizations 600.0 Shares repurchased 8.2 514.9 63.00 (514.9 ) Shares reissued (1.5 ) (106.6 ) 69.15 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2006 15.5 $ 1,054.0 $ 68.23 $ 136.1 Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The following table lists our contractual cash obligations as of August 31, 2006: Payments Due by Fiscal Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Operating lease obligations $ 132.1 $ 249.0 $ 187.9 $ 146.3 $ 715.3 Stadium naming rights(1) 7.2 12.1 12.8 122.4 154.5 Capital lease obligations 0.7 1.0 0.6 2.3 Purchase obligations(2) 41.1 41.1 Other long term obligations(3) 3.0 3.0 6.0 Total $ 184.1 $ 262.1 $ 201.3 $ 271.7 $ 919.2 71 Table of Contents (1) Amounts consist of an agreement for 20 year naming rights to the Glendale, Arizona Sports Complex (2) Amounts primarily consist of purchase obligations for construction of buildings for future expansion. (3) Amounts primarily consist of deferred compensation payments due to John G. Sperling, our Founder. We have no other material commercial commitments not included in the above table. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, which is incorporated by reference in this Part II, Item 7. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Impact of Inflation Inflation has not had a significant impact on our historical operations. Interest Rate Risk Our portfolio of marketable securities includes numerous issuers, varying types of securities, and varying maturities. We intend to hold all securities, other than auction rate securities, to maturity. During the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, interest income earned on our portfolio of marketable securities would have decreased $3.0 to $4.0 million due to a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates. We manage this interest rate risk by monitoring market conditions and the value of these assets. We have no significant short term or long term debt; therefore, we do not face any other significant interest rate risk. Concentration of Credit Risk A substantial portion of credit extended to students is paid through the students participation in various federal financial aid programs authorized by Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as reauthorized (the Higher Education Act), which the Company refers to as Title IV programs. The following table summarizes the Companys total revenues from Title IV programs for the fiscal years ended 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 ($ in millions) Total Title IV funding received $ 1,536.6 $ 1,345.4 $ 1,004.9 Total tuition and other revenues, net 2,477.5 2,251.1 1,800.0 Total Title IV funding as a percentage of total revenue 62.0 % 59.8 % 55.8 % We extend unsecured credit to a portion of the students enrolled. Receivables are not collateralized; however, credit risk is reduced as the amounts owed by any individual student is small relative to the total tuition receivable and the customer base is geographically diverse. 72 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MDA) has been revised for the effects of the Restatement as discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. This MDA is intended to help investors understand Apollo Group, Inc. (the Company, Apollo Group, Apollo, or APOL), our operations, and our present business environment. The MDA is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes (Notes). The following overview provides a summary of the sections included in our MDA: Forward Looking Statements cautionary information about forward looking statements and a description of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections. Results of Independent and Internal Review; Effect of Restatement a discussion of the results of our Independent Review and Internal Review of our historical practices related to stock option grants and the effects of the Restatement. Executive Summary a general description of our business and the education industry, as well as key highlights of the current year. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates a discussion of accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates. Results of Operations an analysis of our results of operations in our consolidated financial statements. We operate in one business sector: education. Except to the extent that differences between our reportable segments are material to an understanding of our business as a whole, we present the discussion in our MDA on a consolidated basis. Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position an analysis of cash flows, sources and uses of cash, commitments and contingencies, seasonality in the results of our operations, the impact of inflation, and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains certain forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward looking statements. Such forward looking statements include, among others, those statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and the beliefs and assumptions of us and our management, and speak only as of the date made and are not guarantees of future performance. The words believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, plans, objectives, and other similar statements of expectation identify forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to risks. Such statements should be viewed with caution. Future events and actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements as a result of many factors. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including those set forth in Item 1 under the sections titled Regulatory Environment, Accreditation, Federal Financial Aid Programs, and State Authorization, those factors set forth in this Item 7 and those factors set forth in other reports that we file with the SEC. We undertake no 49 Table of Contents obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, or any facts, events, or circumstances after the date hereof that may bear upon forward looking statements. Results of Independent and Internal Review; Effect of Restatement In this Annual Report for the year ended August 31, 2006, we have restated our consolidated balance sheet as of August 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004. See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14 Employee and Director Benefit Plans and Note 17, Quarterly Results of Operations (Restated and Unaudited) included in Part II, Item 8 for a discussion of the effect of the Restatement. As part of the Restatement, we have recorded additional (decreased) pre tax share based compensation expense with regard to past stock option grants of approximately $4.9 million and $14.9 million under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25) for our fiscal years ended August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004, respectively. This Annual Report on Form 10 K also presents the effects of the Restatement on our Selected Consolidated Financial Data in Item 6 for our fiscal years ended August 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Item 7 for our fiscal years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004. Previously filed annual reports on Form 10 K and quarterly reports on Form 10 Q affected by the Restatement will not be amended. Accordingly, previously issued financial statements and related reports of our independent registered public accounting firm should not be relied upon. Background In response to comments in a report published by an investment bank on June 8, 2006 that questioned whether we might have backdated stock option grants during its fiscal years ended August 31, 2000 through August 31, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a Special Committee on June 23, 2006, and authorized it to retain independent legal counsel, who in turn retained forensic accountants, to assist them in conducting the Independent Review of the Companys historical practices related to stock option grants. In November 2006, with the assistance of outside legal counsel, we began an in depth Internal Review to ascertain the most likely measurement date of every stock option grant since our initial public offering (IPO) during our fiscal year 1994 through September 2006 (the Internal Review). On December 15, 2006, we announced in a Form 8 K that the Special Committee presented the final factual findings of the Independent Review to the Board disclosing, among other things, that: In the accounting of certain stock option grants, the Company did not correctly apply the requirements of APB 25. In certain instances, the Company used a measurement date for option awards that corresponded with the [stated] grant date even though the approvals for those grants as set forth in the operative plans were not obtained until after the reported grant date and the final lists of grantees and award amounts were incomplete at the time of the reported grant date. The Company misapplied Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) with respect to the contemporaneous tax treatment of certain stock option grants and may face significant tax liability for prior years. The Company prepared and maintained inaccurate documentation concerning the date that grant award lists were completed and approved. The Special Committee has found no direct evidence that the grant date for any of the large Management Grants was selected with the benefit of hindsight. In two instances, though, the price on the grant date is at a relative low point for the Companys stock, and there is little contemporaneous evidence to establish that the grant was made on the grant date. While there is a possibility that the grant date was retroactively selected, there is insufficient evidence to reach such a conclusion. 50 Table of Contents [T]he Special Committee, in connection with its factual findings, reported to the Board that certain former officers took steps that may have been intended to mask failures in the grant approval process with respect to the Companys financial reporting and payment of taxes. The Special Committee also recently discovered additional evidence that raises questions whether another grant (in addition to the two grants referenced in a previous Form 8 K dated November 6, 2006) may have been retroactively selected by a day, although there is insufficient evidence to reach such a conclusion. Based on the Independent Review and the Internal Review, we determined that 57 of the 100 total grants made during this time period used incorrect measurement dates for accounting purposes. Of these 100 grants, 33 grants were Management Grants. We determined that incorrect measurement dates were used for accounting purposes for 24 of the 33 Management Grants. As a result, revised measurement dates were selected for many grants and resulted in exercise prices that were less than the fair market value of the stock on the most likely measurement dates. We recorded pre tax compensation expense of $52.9 million ($59.9 million after tax) in the aggregate over the fiscal years 1994 through 2005. The after tax amount is higher due primarily to disallowed deductions pursuant to IRS Section 162(m) and related penalties and interest. This incremental share based compensation expense results in a cumulative decrease to pre tax income of $21.1 million ($34.2 million after tax) for the years ended August 31, 2002 through 2005. Based on the available documentation and evidence, the following summarizes our understanding of our historical granting process and determination of the most likely measurement dates for our stock option grants. Historically, we made annual grants of APOL and UPX Online options. We have historically granted stock options to the following groups: Management and other employees (annual grants), including those officers covered by Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (Section 16 Officers) and other employees; Non employee directors (the Director Grants); Faculty (full and part time employees) (the Faculty Grants); and Individual employees (new hires, promotions, transfers, etc.) (the Individual Grants). Employee Stock Option Plans We typically awarded stock options to certain employees (including the Section 16 Officers) on an annual basis. From June 1994 to March 24, 2000, we issued Management Grants pursuant to the Long Term Incentive Plan dated May 13, 1994, as amended on September 22, 1995 (LTIP). The LTIP required approval of all grants by the majority of the members of the Compensation Committee. Subsequent to March 24, 2000, we awarded Management Grants pursuant to the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (2SIP). The 2SIP required the approval of all grants by the Compensation Committee or by both the President and CEO. Our former CEO became President of the Company in 1998 and was promoted to President and CEO in August 2001, and he retained both offices until he resigned in January 2006 (the Former CEO). The Former CEO had authority to approve the option grants for employees other than himself. Grant approval memoranda (Approval Memoranda or Approval Memorandum) were signed by the Former CEO or the Compensation Committee for a number of grants to employees. Our Process for Granting Stock Options Management Grants Our annual Management Grant process followed a similar pattern each year. Generally, near the end of each fiscal year (before the grant date), we began developing a list of grantees. Over a period of time the list was finalized. Once the total number of shares to be issued to each grantee was known, the list was submitted to the Stock Option Manager (Manager) in our accounting department. Over the next few weeks to a few months, changes were made to the list: names were added, shares were adjusted, and underlying vesting goals were developed. We understand that prior to August 2001, most grant dates were selected at Board or Compensation Committee meetings. We understand that beginning in August 2001, the 51 Table of Contents Former CEO generally selected the grant date. The majority of the Management Grants have a 10 year term with 4 year standard vesting. The grants typically contained vesting acceleration provisions based upon meeting certain financial performance goals (e.g., earnings per share, stock price, net income, etc.). Once the list was finalized by the accounting department, the Former CEO communicated his approval; however, no contemporaneous evidence exists to support on what date this occurred. It was then communicated to the Manager that the list could be entered into Equity Edge, our stock option plan administration software. Our Use of Equity Edge We began using Equity Edge in approximately May 1997 and still use it today. Data relating to pre May 1997 grants was also entered into the system in 1997 for recordkeeping purposes. The date a grant is first entered in Equity Edge is referred to as the Equity Edge Record Added Date. After February 2000, the Equity Edge data was then uploaded to an external third party broker dealer firm. On each day that activity occurred in Equity Edge, the third party broker dealers system would automatically download the option grant information into the individual employee brokerage accounts that night. The grantees could then view the options in their brokerage accounts online. Approval of Management Grants Management Grants issued from June 1994 to August 2001 under both the LTIP and the 2SIP required approval by both members of the Compensation Committee. Such approval was mostly documented by Compensation Committee minutes. However, often no list was attached to the minutes. We believe that most grant dates were set at Board or Compensation Committee meetings. Based on a review of past granting practices, the Compensation Committee did not and has not invalidated any grants and we have honored all grants. In 2000, instead of using Compensation Committee minutes, we began using Approval Memoranda to memorialize grants to employees. Beginning in August 2001, an Approval Memorandum was prepared for grants to the Former CEO. At this time, the Former CEO also had the authority to approve the option grants for employees other than himself. In the course of the Independent Review and the Internal Review, two types of Approval Memoranda were found. We found Approval Memoranda signed by either the Compensation Committee or, beginning in August 2001, signed by the Former CEO approving grants to all employees. These Approval Memoranda, in limited instances, indicate the specific number of shares to be received by each grantee. We also found Approval Memoranda signed by the Compensation Committee for grants to the Former CEO. These Approval Memoranda typically stated the number of shares being granted to the Former CEO. Although there exists a general lack of documentation surrounding the creation and execution of Approval Memoranda, we understand that Approval Memoranda were created at some point in the grant making process, and in certain cases, the Approval Memoranda were dated as of the date of the grant it was approving, such that in certain cases, the date on the Memorandum contained a date before the actual creation date of the Memorandum. In many instances, the Approval Memorandum was signed by only the Chairman of the Compensation Committee and we lack evidence as to whether all of the grants issued were, in fact, approved by a majority of the members of the Compensation Committee. As a result of the Independent Review and Internal Review, we understand that the Approval Memoranda are not conclusive as to the actual date of approval, but they do reflect that the approval was given and that the grant was authorized. As a result of the review of our past granting practices, we determined the Equity Edge Record Added Date represents the most likely measurement date as to when the terms of the awards were finalized and approved. After the Former CEO resigned in January 2006, to the extent evidence exists of Compensation Committee approval of the final terms of the grant on the original grant date, we used the original grant date. Section 16 Officer Grants (Except the Former CEO) Section 16 Officers received Management Grants according to the same general Management Grant process described above. After August 2002, we filed timely Forms 4 for the Section 16 Officers within two days of a grant. When the list was finalized, grant information was provided to the Manager, who would enter the grant into Equity Edge, which was used to prepare and file the Forms 4. The Section 16 Officers typically took up to but no longer 52 Table of Contents than two days to file the Forms 4. Beginning in August 2001, the Former CEO had the authority to approve the grants to Section 16 Officers. We generally determined the original stated grant date is the most likely measurement date for Section 16 Officer grants after August 2002. Former CEO Grants Under the LTIP and the 2SIP, only the Compensation Committee could approve grants to the Former CEO. While Compensation Committee minutes generally stated approvals for grants, these minutes did not always specify the shares the Former CEO was to receive in the grant. The Former CEO was typically in attendance at the Compensation Committee meetings where the minutes reflect that option grants were discussed and approved. The minutes reflect the Former CEO was excused prior to his compensation being discussed. The number of APOL options granted to the Former CEO remained the same from 1998 through 2001. From 2001, specific approval for grants to the Former CEO was documented using Approval Memoranda signed by the Chairman of the Compensation Committee. By early 2001, approval was obtained verbally by the Former CEO and was typically later memorialized in an Approval Memorandum. Prior to August 2002, to the extent we were able to determine that evidence of Board or Compensation Committee approval existed, we concluded the original grant date was the most likely measurement date. If we were unable to determine that evidence of approval existed for a grant, we used the Equity Edge Record Added Date as the measurement date. As discussed above for the Section 16 Officers, after August 2002, the Former CEO began filing Forms 4 with the SEC within two days of a grant. We generally concluded the original stated grant date is the most likely measurement date after August 2002, based on the history of the filing process for Forms 4 after a grant. Director Grants We grant options to non employee directors on an annual basis. From December 6, 1994 through September 1, 2003, we granted annual Director Grants pursuant to the Apollo Director Stock Plan (DSP), which was approved on and effective as of August 5, 1994. The DSP provisions stated that each director received a defined number of stock options on a defined date and price on the date of grant. As a result, we generally concluded that the original stated grant date was the most likely measurement date for Director Grants made under the DSP. Subsequent to September 1, 2003, the Director Grants were made pursuant to the 2SIP. Forms 4 were prepared in the same manner as the Section 16 Officers discussed above, except that the forms were emailed to the Directors for signatures. As a result, after September 2003, we concluded the original stated grant date is the most likely measurement date based on the history of our granting process for Forms 4. Faculty Grants Each qualifying faculty member was eligible to receive one Faculty Grant per calendar year. Starting in fiscal year 1999, each qualifying faculty member received a fixed number of shares annually. The Faculty Grants were issued to eligible faculty that met certain previously communicated criteria. Faculty Grants were awarded under both the LTIP and 2SIP; however, provisions do not specifically address Faculty Grants. Detailed Faculty Grant information was posted to the Company website and in the Faculty Handbook, including the frequency and timing of the grants for the upcoming year. The strike price per share was to be equal to the closing price on the grant date or the nearest day before the grant date if it fell on a weekend or holiday, pursuant to the plan. In most cases, grants were entered into Equity Edge by the Manager and then a few days later Human Resources sent a grant email to faculty. After 2000, Faculty Grants are also uploaded nightly to an external third party broker dealers system and automatically downloaded into the individual employee brokerage accounts that same night. As a result of the pre defined criteria, we determined that the original stated grant date was generally the most likely measurement date. In certain instances, we noted that certain faculty met the pre established criteria but were not included in the appropriate quarterly/semi annual stated grant. Because they met all the criteria at the stated grant date and had completed an Eligibility Checklist, they should have received an award on that date but were left 53 Table of Contents off due to administrative delay. Therefore, we determined the most likely measurement date was the date of the quarterly/semi annual grant date in which the award should have been included. Individual Grants We also granted options to certain employees on an ad hoc basis throughout the year for various reasons such as new hire, transfer, promotion, etc. These options were granted pursuant to the LTIP or the 2SIP, and the terms normally matched all terms in the grant agreements used for the Management Grant issued during that same fiscal year. Prior to 2001, all of the information and approvals required to establish a proper measurement date for certain grants were either not documented or we lacked sufficient evidence as to whether such information and approvals were obtained by the originally selected grant date. Beginning in August 2001, the Former CEO picked the grant date and determined the number of shares. We normally did not document these types of option grants in a letter or in the employees personnel file. The individuals were notified of their grants either verbally or via an email from Human Resources. Certain grants were documented via an Approval Memorandum signed by the Former CEO after August 2001, as discussed in the Management Grants discussion above. The grant was entered into Equity Edge following the process described above for Management Grants. We similarly concluded that the Equity Edge Record Added Date is the most likely measurement date for Individual Grants. Income Tax Related Matters Section 162(m) In relation to the Restatement, certain tax deductions in prior years with respect to compensation attributable to the exercise of certain stock options by executive officers may be in question. Under IRC Section 162(m), the amount of such deduction per covered executive officer is limited to $1.0 million per year, except to the extent the compensation qualifies as performance based. Compensation attributable to options with revised measurement dates may not have qualified as performance based compensation. Accordingly, we may have claimed deductions with respect to those exercised options that were in excess of the limit imposed under IRC Section 162(m). As a result, we have accrued our best estimate with respect to potential tax liabilities, including interest and penalties for the taxable years 2003 through 2005 (which are currently our only open years subject to adjustment for federal tax purposes), of approximately $41.1 million as of August 31, 2006. These accruals have been recorded because we believe it is more likely than not that the deductions will be disallowed by the IRS. For prior periods where a liability existed and where the statute of limitations has expired, the accrual relating to that period has been reversed in the appropriate period. Section 409A The revised measurement dates for certain stock options discussed above may result in adverse tax consequences to holders of those options under IRC Section 409A. Section 409A was enacted in 2004 to impose certain restrictions on deferred compensation arrangements, including limitations on the subsequent distribution of deferred amounts. Deferred compensation for this purpose is defined very broadly and, as a result, includes in that definition, options granted at a discounted exercise price, to the extent those options vest after December 31, 2004 (409A Affected Options). Therefore, the revised measurement dates for the options discussed above could subject the options that vest after calendar year 2004 to treatment as 409A Affected Options. Each holder of a 409A Affected Option would recognize taxable income on the option spread at the time of vesting (or, for 409A Affected Options exercised in calendar years 2006 or 2007, at the time of exercise) and would incur, in addition to regular income taxes, an additional 20% penalty tax on such spread and interest. Similar penalty taxes could apply under state tax laws. We are subject to certain reporting and withholding obligations with respect to the taxable income on the option spread. (1) Unexercised 409A Affected Options Section 16 Officers: In December 2006, we entered into irrevocable written agreements with each of our Section 16 Officers and certain Former Section 16 Officers, holding 409A Affected Options pursuant to which those 54 Table of Contents options were to be brought into compliance with Section 409A, and thereby would avoid the adverse tax consequences summarized above, through either of the following alternatives: (a) amendment of the option to increase the exercise price to the market price per share of our Class A common stock on the revised measurement date or (b) the optionees commitment to exercise the option (to the extent in the money) during the 2007 calendar year prior to its contractual expiration date. Generally, these amendments will be treated as a modification of the option under SFAS 123(R). However, in this circumstance, there are no accounting consequences under SFAS 123(R). Non Section 16 Officers: An offer to amend the 409A Affected Options held by non Section 16 Officers to increase the exercise price to the market price per share of the underlying Class A common stock on the revised measurement date cannot be made until after this Annual Report on Form 10 K and all other delinquent filings are filed with the SEC. In order to avoid adverse taxation under Section 409A, this amendment must be made on or before the earlier of (i) December 31, 2007 or (ii) the exercise of the 409A Affected Options during the 2007 calendar year. We anticipate that we will commence such an offer after the filing of this Annual Report and all other delinquent filings. As part of the offer and amendment process under IRC Section 409A, we may provide bonuses to the holders of the amended options to compensate them for the resulting increase in their stock option exercise price. However, we have not yet made a decision to implement a bonus program to compensate either the Section 16 Officers or the non Section 16 Officers resulting from the increased exercise prices. A decision to compensate for increased prices through a bonus would represent a modification to the grant and would result in accounting consequences under SFAS 123(R). (2) Exercised 409A Affected Options In February 2007, we elected to participate in a program announced by the Internal Revenue Service in Notice 2007 30, which pertains to 409A Affected Options exercised by non Section 16 Officers during the calendar year 2006 and which allows us to pay the penalty tax and interest due to the related measurement date changes that would otherwise be payable by the option holders who exercised the 409A Affected Options. The payment of the tax penalty and interest on behalf of the option holders in 2007 will result in additional taxable income to the option holders. As such, we will pay on behalf of or reimburse the option holders for applicable payroll and income taxes related to the additional income, as well as provide a gross up for any tax consequences of the penalty tax and interest reimbursement we make. We recorded a pre tax liability in the second quarter of 2007 for compensation expense under this program totaling approximately $2.6 million. Restatement Adjustments (1) Share Based Compensation As discussed above, we have restated our financial results to record additional share based compensation expense. (2) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts During the year ended August 31, 2006, we concluded that a significant increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts was required. A portion of the increase has been determined to be the correction of an error from prior periods and is included in the accompanying financial statements as an element of the Restatement. This error related to the fact that in prior years we did not properly consider available information related to (a) the cumulative differences between actual write offs and our allowance for doubtful accounts and (b) significant increases in the Return to Lender dollars for Title IV recipients who withdraw from UPX or WIU. When a student with Title IV loans withdraws from UPX or WIU, we are sometimes required to return a portion of Title IV funds to the lenders. We are generally entitled to collect these funds from the students, but the collection of these receivables is significantly lower than our collection of receivables from students who remain in our educational programs. Accordingly, we have restated our allowances for doubtful accounts for all prior periods presented. This error resulted in adjustments to pre tax bad debt expense in the amounts of $11.7 million ($7.1 million after tax) and $4.1 million ($2.5 million after tax) for the fiscal years ended 2005 and 2004, respectively. 55 Table of Contents (3) Other Adjustments We concluded that the accounting for various accounts such as cash, revenue, property and equipment, lease accounting and other investments was not properly recorded in accordance with GAAP. Specifically, the impairment in a venture capital fund investment should have been recorded in an earlier period; cash related to scholarships, grants, and refunds should have been classified as restricted cash and student deposits; different assumptions should have been used in determining the fair value of options; certain share based compensation was improperly amortized amongst quarters; auction rate securities were improperly classified as cash and cash equivalents in certain periods; and certain revenue under tuition discount programs were not properly recorded. Certain of these errors resulted in adjustments to pre tax expense shown in other adjustments in the table below. Adjustments to our lease accounting resulted in a net increase in expense of $2.6 million and $0.7 million for the years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and adjustments to the balance sheet of $2.6 million as of August 31, 2005. Specifically, we determined that the accounting for our tenant improvement allowances was not in accordance with GAAP. As part of the Restatement, the errors in our accounting for the tenant improvement allowances were corrected and certain of our operating leases now have been properly accounted for as capital leases. These adjustment amounts are included in Other Adjustments in the table below. (4) Tax Effect of Adjustments The tax effect of the Restatement adjustments is shown below. Impact of the Restatement As a result of the Restatement, retained earnings as of September 1, 2003 has been adjusted from $765.2 million to $702.7 million. The financial information presented in this Item 7 has been adjusted to reflect the incremental impact resulting from the Restatement adjustments discussed above, as follows: Summary of Impact of Restatement Adjustments Tax Effect of Adjustments(4) Share Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Penalty Based Total Related to Related to and Tax Effect Total Total Compensation Bad Debt Other Adjustments, Share Based Bad Debt Interest on of 162(m) Tax Adjustments, Fiscal Year Expense(1) Expense(2) Adjustments(3) Pre Tax Compensation and Other Total Exercises Limitation Effect Net of Tax ($ in thousands) 1994 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1995 176 176 (71 ) (71 ) (71 ) 105 1996 1997 397 397 (160 ) (160 ) (160 ) 237 1998 487 487 (196 ) (196 ) 21 67 (108 ) 379 1999 652 652 (262 ) (262 ) 92 277 107 759 2000 2,091 2,091 (841 ) (841 ) 268 757 184 2,275 2001 28,001 28,001 (11,256 ) (11,256 ) 1,307 3,821 (6,128 ) 21,873 2002 22,782 4,576 4,058 31,416 (9,158 ) (3,471 ) (12,629 ) 3,334 3,628 (5,667 ) 25,749 2003 8,294 3,600 918 12,812 (3,314 ) (1,805 ) (5,119 ) 3,350 84 (1,685 ) 11,127 Cumulative effect on September 1, 2003 opening retained earnings 62,880 8,176 4,976 76,032 (25,258 ) (5,276 ) (30,534 ) 8,372 8,634 (13,528 ) 62,504 2004 (14,929 ) 4,103 808 (10,018 ) 5,941 (1,954 ) 3,987 2,541 1,179 7,707 (2,311 ) 2005 4,935 11,701 (1,233 ) 15,403 (1,963 ) (4,163 ) (6,126 ) 4,050 3,471 1,395 16,798 Total $ 52,886 $ 23,980 $ 4,551 $ 81,417 $ (21,280 ) $ (11,393 ) $ (32,673 ) $ 14,963 $ 13,284 $ (4,426 ) $ 76,991 (1), (2), (3), (4) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a detailed summary of adjustments. Pro Forma Share Based Compensation Expense The footnotes to our previously issued financial statements for the years ended August 31, 2005 and 2004, disclosed pro forma net income in accordance with SFAS 123. This pro forma disclosure also included errors not 56 Table of Contents related to measurement date changes in the amount of $19.8 million ($11.9 million after tax) and $123.5 million ($74.4 million after tax) for the fiscal years ended August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2004, respectively. These errors arose from the misapplication of SFAS 123 to our UPX Online stock options which were converted to APOL options. Specifically, our footnote disclosure understated pro forma net income because it erroneously included deductions for pro forma share based compensation based on the intrinsic value of the converted options as computed under APB 25 rather than the fair value of the converted options as computed under SFAS 123. Changes to Controls, Processes and Procedures Management is committed to remediating the control deficiencies that constitute the material weaknesses described herein by implementing changes to our internal control over financial reporting. For its stock option grants, management has implemented or has plans to implement all of the improvements in internal control over financial reporting suggested as a result of the Independent Review into stock option granting practices. Management plans to continue to implement further changes and improvements during the remainder of the current fiscal year. In addition, management has established procedures to consider the ongoing effectiveness of both the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. We have implemented a number of significant changes and improvements in our internal control over financial reporting during the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2007. Our President and CFO of the Company have taken responsibility to implement changes and improvements in the internal control over financial reporting and remediate the control deficiencies that gave rise to the material weaknesses. Specifically, these changes include: Management We engaged our new Chief Financial Officer on November 14, 2006. We engaged our Corporate Controller effective December 15, 2006, who was subsequently appointed our new Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer on February 6, 2007. We hired a new Vice President, Controller of Accounting. We hired a new Vice President of Tax. We appointed a new Stock Option Plan Administrator in January 2007 to work under the supervision of and report to the new Chief Financial Officer. We are conducting a search for an experienced and well qualified individual to serve as our General Counsel. Outside Legal Counsel; Board of Directors and Committees We considered and adopted the recommendations of the Special Committee with respect to procedures, processes and controls related to stock option grants. We hired Morgan, Lewis Bockius LLP (Morgan Lewis) as counsel to the Company with respect to reporting with the SEC, options and related matters, tax matters and corporate governance matters. Morgan Lewis is an experienced counsel with regard to stock plan administration. We added two independent directors to the Board of Directors. The members of the Audit Committee changed in 2007. The Chairman of the Audit Committee resigned from that committee. The Board appointed a new Chairperson of the Audit Committee, with the requisite experience. The Audit Committee revised and adopted its charter to reflect additional policies, processes, procedures and controls. The members of the Compensation Committee completely changed in 2007. The Chairman of the Compensation Committee resigned from the Board, and the Board appointed a new Chairman of the Compensation Committee who had not been previously involved in the option grant process. In addition, the Board expanded the size of the Compensation Committee to three members. 57 Table of Contents The Compensation Committee suspended the exercise of stock options until we are in compliance with our periodic reporting requirements under the Act, as amended, and retained Pearl, Meyer Partners (Pearl Meyer) to provide consulting advice related to compensation. The Compensation Committee revised and adopted its charter to reflect additional policies, processes, procedures and controls as noted below. For example, minutes of all Compensation Committee meetings are prepared timely and documentation for stock option grants are included as attachments to such minutes. The Company also now requires all stock options to be granted by the Compensation Committee, as now reflected in an amendment to the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan adopted by the Board in March 2007. The Charter of the Compensation Committee requires all grants under the Companys stock option plans (other than new hire grants) to be made within a designated period following the release of financial results for the prior fiscal quarter or fiscal year. Policies, Processes, Procedures and Controls We are monitoring industry and regulatory developments in stock option awards, with the intent to implement and maintain best practices with respect to grants of equity based compensation awards. We have enhanced and standardized the process and documentation required for (i) the granting, exercise and cancellation of all equity based compensation awards, (ii) analyzing the required allowance for doubtful accounts balance and (iii) the use of third party firms for valuation and other services. Accounting personnel are now conducting quarterly (or annual) reviews and reconciliations related to equity based compensation award activity, allowance for doubtful accounts activity and the valuation of goodwill. The CFO and or the CAO will specifically review and approve each of these calculations. Employees previously involved in key roles or the decision making process for each of the material weaknesses are no longer involved in the process. We have retained third party stock option software administration professionals to assist with the understanding of our stock option administration software and to train our employees that are involved in the stock option administration process. Our Internal Audit reporting line has been clarified such that the Director of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee. Executive Summary We have been an education provider for more than 30 years, operating University of Phoenix, Inc. (UPX), Institute for Professional Development, Inc. (IPD), The College for Financial Planning Institutes Corporation (CFP), Western International University, Inc. (WIU) and Insight Schools, Inc., all of which are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. We offer innovative and distinctive educational programs and services from high school through college level at 99 campuses and 163 learning centers in 39 states, Puerto Rico, Alberta, British Columbia, The Netherlands and Mexico, as well as online throughout the world. Our combined Degreed Enrollment for UPX and Axia College as of August 31, 2006 was approximately 282,300. In addition, students are enrolled in WIU, CFP and IPD Client Institutions, and additional non degreed students are enrolled in UPX. See Customers/Students in Item 1 of this Report. Degreed Enrollments represent individual students enrolled in our degree programs who attended a course during the quarter and did not graduate as of the end of the quarter (including Axia students enrolled in UPX and WIU). The non traditional education market is a significant and growing component of the post secondary education market, which is estimated by the U.S. Department of Education to be a more than $343.0 billion industry. According to the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, over 6.5 million, or 39%, of all students enrolled in higher education programs are over the age of 24. A large percentage of these students would not be classified as traditional (i.e., living on campus, supported by parents and not working). The non traditional students typically are looking to improve their skills and enhance their earnings potential within the context of their careers. Between 2002 and 2014, the percentage of 18 to 24 year old students is expected to 58 Table of Contents increase 16%. The market for non traditional education should continue to increase reflecting the rapidly expanding knowledge based economy. The National Center for Education Statistics projects an increase of 11% in enrollments of persons under age 25 and an increase of 15% in persons age 25 and over during the period of 2004 to 2014. During 2006, we experienced the following significant events: 1. Senior Management Changes three members of our senior management team left Apollo Group. Todd Nelson, our Former President and CEO, Laura Palmer Noone, our former President of UPX, and Bob Carroll, our former Chief Information Officer (CIO), were replaced by three very capable and experienced executives: Brian E. Mueller is our new President, Dr. William J. Pepicello is our new President of the University of Phoenix, and Joseph N. Mildenhall is our new CIO. We believe these changes are very positive for our future growth prospects and are confident that those individuals will perform well in these roles. 2. Enrollment and Revenue Growth While Investing in our Business for the Future Despite the management changes discussed above, we were able to achieve 5.4% average quarterly Degreed Enrollment growth in 2006 versus 2005, which resulted in 10.1% increase in revenue. These increases help fund a significant portion of our investment in product development and marketing and lead generation to ensure our continued growth and viability in the future. 3. Stock Option Investigation In response to a report published by an investment bank in June 2006, our Board of Directors established the Special Committee and authorized it to retain independent legal counsel, who in turn retained forensic accountants, to assist them in conducting the Independent Review. On December 15, 2006, we announced in a Form 8 K that the Special Committee presented the final factual findings of the Independent Review to the Board of Directors. The findings and results are discussed elsewhere in this document. With the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and all other delinquent filings, we have substantially completed the processes related to the stock option investigation and restatement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. We believe that our critical accounting policies, which involve a higher degree of judgments, estimates and complexity, are as follows: Revenue Recognition Tuition and other net revenues consist largely of tuition and fees associated with different educational programs as well as related educational resources such as printed text books and access to online materials, and are shown net of discounts relating to a variety of promotional programs including military discounts, special promotional incentives designed to generate new student enrollment, early payment discounts and other incentives. 59 Table of Contents The following table presents the most significant components as percentages of total tuition and other, net revenue for the years ended August 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 Restated(1) Restated(1) ($ in millions) Tuition revenue $ 2,304.3 93.0 % $ 2,114.1 93.9 % $ 1,679.0 93.3 % IPD services revenue 74.4 3.0 % 69.5 3.1 % 62.6 3.5 % Application and related fees 33.8 1.4 % 36.4 1.6 % 28.7 1.6 % Online course material revenue 138.7 5.6 % 104.5 4.6 % 69.1 3.8 % Other revenue 31.7 1.3 % 33.8 1.5 % 23.0 1.3 % Tuition and other revenue, gross 2,582.9 104.3 % 2,358.3 104.7 % 1,862.4 103.5 % Less: Discounts (105.4 ) (4.3 )% (107.2 ) (4.7 )% (62.4 ) (3.5 )% Tuition and other revenue, net $ 2,477.5 100.0 % $ 2,251.1 100.0 % $ 1,800.0 100.0 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Tuition revenue encompasses both online and classroom based learning. Tuition revenue is recognized pro rata, on a weekly basis, over the period of instruction as services are delivered to students. During certain periods of the year and in certain businesses, we adjust our revenue recognition to account for holiday breaks such as Christmas and Thanksgiving. IPD services revenues consist of the contractual share of tuition revenues from students enrolled in IPD programs at Client Institutions. IPD contracts with Client Institutions to provide services including, but not limited to, management consulting and training; program development; program administration; instructor and student recruiting; and student accounting, collection and recordkeeping. The contractual share varies by contract and may change over time. Our contractual share ranges between 30% and 50%. Contracts generally have terms of 10 years with provisions for renewal. The portion of service revenue to which we are entitled under the terms of the contracts is recognized on a pro rata basis as defined. Application and related fees consist of the fees students pay when submitting an enrollment application and the application costs related to the expenses associated with processing the applications. Both the fees and the costs are deferred and recognized over the average length of time it takes for a student to complete a program of study. Online course material revenue relates to online course materials delivered to students over the period of instruction. Revenue associated with these materials is recognized pro rata over the period of the related course to correspond with delivery of the materials to students. Other revenue is primarily composed of non tuition generating revenues, such as renting classroom space and other student support services. This revenue is recognized as these services are provided. Goodwill Goodwill is primarily the result of our acquisition of CFP, which was acquired in September 1997. SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142) addresses goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives and prescribes that these assets will not be amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if circumstances arise indicating potential impairment. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit containing goodwill exceeds the fair value of that reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount of the goodwill. This pronouncement provides specific guidance on performing impairment tests for goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill requires judgment. In assessing the fair value of our reporting units, we make estimates about the future cash flows of our reporting units. Our cash flow forecast is based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company is using to manage the 60 Table of Contents underlying businesses. Other factors we consider include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner or use of the acquired assets or the overall business strategy, and significant negative industry or economic trends. If our estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record non cash impairment charges for these assets. In addition, we make certain judgments about allocating shared assets and liabilities to the balance sheets for our reporting units. We have engaged a third party valuation expert to assist in evaluating the fair values of our reporting units. We have selected August 31 as the date on which we perform our annual goodwill impairment test. As of August 31, 2006, we concluded that the goodwill for CFP was impaired in the amount of $20.2 million. This impairment was included in our Other Schools segment In performing our annual impairment test, we assessed the recoverability of the goodwill by evaluating the future discounted cash flows and the fair value of CFPs tangible and intangible assets. The total discounted future cash flows was determined to be significantly less than our original expectations due to slower than forecasted revenue growth. After the impairment charge, the remaining goodwill totaled $16.9 million, which represents approximately 1.3% of total assets. There are no other long lived assets at CFP that we believe are impaired. Additional impairments could affect future results of operations. Share Based Compensation See also Item 8, Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, for the discussion of the Restatement related to our stock option grants. Prior to September 1, 2005, we accounted for all employee and non employee director share based compensation awards using the intrinsic value method under APB 25, and provided the required disclosures in accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS 123). On September 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)), using the modified prospective transition method. Under both APB 25 and SFAS 123(R), the requisite service period over which share based compensation is expensed generally equals the vesting periods of the awards. Under SFAS 123(R), our share based compensation is based on the fair value of the option at the grant date. The fair value is affected by the stock price, as well as the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model (the BSM) valuation assumptions, including the volatility of the stock price, expected term of the option, risk free interest rate and dividend yield. We use the BSM for estimating the fair value on the date of the grant of stock options. We used the following weighted average assumptions in the BSM: For the Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 Restated(1) Expected volatility 34.6% 30.2% 38.7% Expected life (years) 5.9 3.9 3.2 Risk free interest rate 4.8% 3.4% 3.2% Dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. The assumptions that have the most significant affect on the fair value of the grants and therefore, share based compensation expense, are the expected life and expected volatility. The following table illustrates how changes to the BSM assumptions would affect the weighted average per option fair values as of the grant date for grants made during fiscal year 2006: Expected Volatility Expected Life (years) 32.5% 34.6% 36.6% 4.4 $ 21.62 $ 22.36 $ 23.09 5.9 25.25 26.06 26.87 7.5 28.25 29.10 29.95 61 Table of Contents Sensitivity Analysis Stock Option Restatement In connection with the Restatement, we determined that during the period from June 1994 through September 2006, we applied incorrect measurement dates in our accounting for certain stock options. Based on the available facts and circumstances surrounding our stock option granting practices, we adopted a methodology for determining the most likely measurement dates. We believe the application of this methodology indicated the most likely date when the number of options granted to each employee was approved and the exercise price and number of shares were known with finality. When there was not conclusive documentation or evidence of an earlier date, we believe the best indication of finality and approval is the Equity Edge Record Added Date. However, we acknowledge that many of the measurement date conclusions are dependent on the facts and circumstances of each stock option grant and involved the application of significant judgment. Because the revised measurement date is subjective, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact of using alternative measurement dates for certain grants other than the Equity Edge Record Added Date. We performed the sensitivity analysis to the annual Management and Individual Grants issued under APB 25 for the period June 1994 through August 31, 2005. This sensitivity analysis also included the stock options issued to the Former CEO from June 1994 through October 2002 (the date when we began filing timely Forms 4) to the extent the Equity Edge Record Added Date was used as the most likely measurement date. To perform the sensitivity analysis, we used the highest and lowest market price of APOL or UPX Online stock for the period from the original grant date to the revised measurement date. For the Management and Individual grants issued under APB 25, the Restatement resulted in a pre tax increase in share based compensation expense of $52.9 million from the amounts previously reported. The use of the low stock prices during the period from the stated grant date to the revised measurement date instead of the price on the revised measurement date would result in no increase in share based compensation expense from the amounts previously reported. The use of the high stock prices during the period from the stated grant date to the revised measurement date instead of the price on the revised measurement date would result in a pre tax increase of $8.9 million from the share based compensation expense reflected in the Restatement. We believe our methodology, based on the best evidence available, results in the most likely measurement date for our stock option grants. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts See also Item 8, Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, for the discussion of the Restatement related to our allowance for doubtful accounts. We extend unsecured credit to a portion of the students who are enrolled at our schools and programs, and based upon past experience and current trends, we establish an allowance for doubtful accounts with respect to tuition receivables. Our allowance estimation methodology has been refined and considers a number of factors that, based on collections history, we believe have an impact on our ability to collect student receivables. We monitor our collections and write off experience and periodically determine whether adjustments to our allowance percentage estimates are necessary. As a result, we believe that our allowance estimation methodology reflects historical trends as well as our most recent collections experience and reasonably estimates future losses attributable to receivable write offs. Our standard allowance estimation methodology is periodically evaluated for sufficiency by management and modified as necessary. Changes to the design of our standard allowance estimation methodology, including our allowance percentage estimates, may impact our estimate of our allowance for doubtful accounts and our financial results. When a student with Title IV loans withdraws from UPX or WIU, we are sometimes required to return a portion of Title IV funds to the lenders. We are generally entitled to collect these funds from the students, but collection of these receivables is significantly lower than our collection of receivables from students who remain in our educational programs. An increase in the amount of Return to Lender and a lower collection rate is factored into the determination of an appropriate allowance amount. 62 Table of Contents A one percentage point change in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of gross student receivables as of August 31, 2006, would have resulted in a pre tax change in net income of $2.1 million ($1.3 million after tax). Additionally, if our allowance for doubtful accounts was to change by 1% of tuition and other revenues, net for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, we would have recorded a pre tax change in net income of approximately $24.8 million ($14.9 million after tax). Accounts receivable are written off when the account is deemed to be uncollectible. This typically occurs once we have exhausted all efforts to collect the account, which includes collection attempts by our employees and outside collection agencies. Insurance Reserves We record liabilities for claims and related expenses that are estimable and probable related to our self insured medical and dental insurance programs in accordance with the contractual terms of the insurance policies. Accounting for insurance liabilities that are self insured involves uncertainty because estimates and judgments are used to determine the ultimate liability for reported claims as well as claims incurred but not reported. We consider our historical experience in determining the appropriate insurance reserves. We record reserves for claims incurred but not recorded assuming a 45 day lag in the submission of claims. The following table displays the required increase or decrease to the insurance reserve if current claim lag time trends differed from our historical claim lag time experience: Pre Tax (Decrease) Claim Lag Time Increase ($ in millions) 30 days $ (2.7 ) 45 days 60 days 2.7 Loss Contingencies In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS 5), when we become aware of a claim or potential claim, the likelihood of any loss or exposure is assessed. If it is probable that a loss will result and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the loss. The liability recorded includes probable and estimable legal costs associated with the claim or potential claim. If the loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose the claim if the likelihood of a potential loss is reasonably possible and the amount is material. For matters where no loss contingency is recorded, our policy is to expense legal fees as incurred. Accounting for Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted laws and tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Management judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and, in particular, whether or not a valuation allowance should be recorded against our deferred tax assets. In relation to the Restatement, certain tax deductions in prior years with respect to compensation attributable to the exercise of certain stock options by executive officers may be in question. Under IRC Section 162(m), the amount of such deduction per covered executive officer is limited to $1.0 million per year, except to the extent the compensation qualifies as performance based. Compensation attributable to options with revised measurement dates may not have qualified as performance based compensation. Accordingly, we may have claimed deductions with respect to those exercised options that were in excess of the limit imposed under IRC Section 162(m). As a result, we have accrued our best estimate with respect to potential tax liabilities, including interest and penalties for 63 Table of Contents the taxable years 2003 through 2005 (which are currently our only open years subject to adjustment for federal tax purposes), of approximately $41.1 million as of August 31, 2006. These accruals have been recorded because we believe it is more likely than not that the deductions will be disallowed by the IRS. For prior periods where a liability existed and where the statute of limitations has expired, the accrual relating to that period has been reversed in the appropriate period. Results of Operations We have included below a discussion of our operating results and significant items which explain the material changes in our operating results during the last three years. All comparative statements and historical financial information discussed is based on the restated financial statements for the periods presented prior to the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006. The following table sets forth an analysis of our Consolidated Statements of Income for fiscal years ended 2006, 2005, and 2004: % of Revenues % Change Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, 2006 vs. 2005 vs. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 Restated(1) Restated(1) Restated(1) ($ in millions, except percentages) Revenues: Tuition and other, net $ 2,477.5 $ 2,251.1 $ 1,800.0 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 10.1 % 25.1 % Costs and expenses: Instructional costs and services 1,112.7 956.6 781.4 44.9 % 42.5 % 43.4 % 16.3 % 22.4 % Selling and promotional 544.7 485.5 383.8 22.0 % 21.6 % 21.3 % 12.2 % 26.5 % General and administrative 149.9 94.5 84.3 6.1 % 4.2 % 4.7 % 58.6 % 12.1 % Goodwill impairment 20.2 0.8 % Share based compensation(2) 16.9 100.3 0.7 % 5.6 % 1,827.5 1,553.5 1,349.8 73.8 % 69.0 % 75.0 % 17.6 % 15.1 % Income from operations 650.0 697.6 450.2 26.2 % 31.0 % 25.0 % (6.8 )% 55.0 % Interest income and other, net 18.1 16.8 16.3 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.9 % 7.7 % 3.1 % Income before income taxes 668.1 714.4 466.5 26.9 % 31.7 % 25.9 % (6.5 )% 53.1 % Provision for income taxes 253.3 286.5 186.4 10.2 % 12.7 % 10.4 % (11.6 )% 53.7 % Net income $ 414.8 $ 427.9 $ 280.1 16.7 % 19.0 % 15.5 % (3.1 )% 52.8 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. (2) Share based compensation in 2005 and 2004 is related to the 2004 conversion of the UPX Online stock options into Apollo Group Class A stock options. Share based compensation expense resulting from the revised measurement dates is included in instructional costs and services, selling and promotional, and general and administrative expenses. We categorize our expenses as instructional costs and services, selling and promotional, and general and administrative. Instructional costs and services at UPX, WIU, and the CFP consist primarily of costs related to the delivery and administration of our educational programs and include faculty compensation, administrative salaries for departments that provide service directly to the students, financial aid processing costs, the costs of educational materials sold, facility leases and other occupancy costs, bad debt expense, technology spending in support of student systems and depreciation and amortization of property and equipment. UPX and WIU faculty members are primarily contracted for one course offering at a time. All classroom facilities are leased or, in some cases, are provided by the students employers at no charge to us. Instructional costs and services at IPD consist primarily of program 64 Table of Contents administration, student services, and classroom lease expense. Most of the other instructional costs for IPD assisted programs, including faculty, financial aid processing, and other administrative salaries, are the responsibility of IPDs Client Institutions. Selling and promotional costs consist primarily of compensation and employee benefits for enrollment counselors, management and support staff, corporate marketing, advertising, production of marketing materials, and other costs related to selling and promotional functions. We expense selling and promotional costs as incurred. General and administrative costs consist primarily of administrative salaries, occupancy costs, depreciation and amortization, and other related costs for departments such as executive management, information systems, corporate accounting, human resources, and other departments that do not provide direct services to our students. To the extent possible, we centralize these services to avoid duplication of effort. Tuition and Other, Net Revenues Information about our tuition and other net revenues by reportable segment on a percentage basis is as follows: Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 2004 UPX 83.7 % 89.5 % 94.4 % Other Schools 16.2 % 10.4 % 5.4 % Corporate 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.2 % Tuition and other, net 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Our tuition and other revenues, net increased by 10.1% in 2006 primarily due to a 5.4% increase in average quarterly Degreed Enrollments and selective tuition price increases depending on the geographic area and program. These increases include a 113.0% increase in average quarterly Degreed Enrollments in our lower tuition associates degree programs. As of August 31, 2006, 26.2% of our students are Degreed Enrollments in associates degree programs compared with 15.4% of our students as of August 31, 2005. Our tuition and other revenues, net increased by 25.1% in 2005 primarily due to an 18.2% increase in average quarterly Degreed Enrollments and generally a 4 6% increase in average tuition prices (depending on the geographic area and program). The remaining increase is related to increased pricing and higher sales of online course materials. Tuition and other revenues, net at Other Schools increased as a percentage of total revenues in 2005 and 2006 due to enrollment in associates degree programs at Axia College of WIU during 2005. Axia College began offering these programs in September 2004. In March 2006 (our third quarter of fiscal 2006), we began offering all Axia College programs within UPX, instead of WIU. Therefore, we expect the percentage of revenue within Other Schools to decrease in fiscal 2007. 65 Table of Contents Instructional Costs and Services Instructional costs and services increased by 16.3% in 2006 versus 2005, and 22.4% in 2005 versus 2004. The following table sets forth the increases in significant components of instructional costs and services: % of Revenues % Change Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, 2006 vs. 2005 vs. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 Restated (1) Restated (1) Restated (1) ($ in millions) Employee compensation and related expenses $ 382.3 $ 343.9 $ 282.5 15.4 % 15.3 % 15.7 % 11.2 % 21.7 % Faculty compensation 212.3 195.1 154.2 8.6 % 8.7 % 8.6 % 8.8 % 26.5 % Classroom lease expenses and depreciation 193.4 171.3 145.1 7.8 % 7.6 % 8.1 % 12.9 % 18.1 % Other instructional costs and services 158.2 142.0 122.3 6.4 % 6.3 % 6.8 % 11.4 % 16.1 % Bad debt expense 101.6 57.2 31.1 4.1 % 2.5 % 1.7 % 77.6 % 83.9 % Financial aid processing costs 52.5 43.3 32.4 2.1 % 1.9 % 1.8 % 21.2 % 33.6 % Share based compensation 12.4 3.8 4.0 0.5 % 0.2 % 0.2 % 226.3 % (5.0 )% U.S. Department of Education settlement 9.8 N/A N/A 0.5 % N/A N/A Instructional costs and services $ 1,112.7 $ 956.6 $ 781.4 44.9 % 42.5 % 43.4 % 16.3 % 22.4 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Instructional costs and services as a percentage of tuition and other net revenues increased in 2006 versus 2005 due primarily to an increase in bad debt expense. The increase is the result of increased aged accounts receivable and write offs as a result of increased student withdrawals and an increase in Return to Lender dollars for students who withdraw from UPX or WIU. When a student withdraws from UPX or WIU, we are sometimes required to return a certain portion of any disbursed student financial aid loans to the lender (Return to Lender dollars for Title IV recipients). We are generally entitled to collect these funds from the students, but collection on these receivables is significantly lower than receivables for students who remain in our educational programs. During the second half of our fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of 2005, we were required by regulatory authorities to modify our Return to Lender calculations when a student withdraws from UPX or WIU. These changes forced us to return additional dollars to the lenders than had previously been required. We attempt to collect these funds from our students but as a result of the increased Return to Lender dollars, our bad debt expense significantly increased in 2005 and 2006. Instructional costs and services as a percentage of tuition and other net revenues decreased in 2005 versus 2004 due primarily to greater tuition and other net revenues being spread over the fixed costs related to centralized student services. Additionally, a $9.8 million settlement with the U.S. Department of Education in 2004 related to the U.S. Department of Educations program review contributed to the decline. Finally, the impact of the changes related to Return to Lender dollars discussed above increased bad debt expense in 2005 versus 2004. 66 Table of Contents Selling and Promotional Expenses Selling and promotional expenses increased by 12.2% in 2006 versus 2005, and 26.5% in 2005 versus 2004. The following table sets forth the increases in significant components of selling and promotional expenses: % of Revenues % Change Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, 2006 vs. 2005 vs. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 Restated (1) Restated (1) Restated (1) ($ in millions) Enrollment advisors compensation and related expenses $ 254.3 $ 204.6 $ 155.6 10.3 % 9.1 % 8.6 % 24.3 % 31.5 % Advertising 231.6 224.0 174.6 9.3 % 10.0 % 9.7 % 3.4 % 28.3 % Other selling and promotional expenses 56.5 56.2 52.9 2.3 % 2.5 % 2.9 % 0.5 % 6.2 % Share based compensation 2.3 0.6 0.7 0.1 % 0.0 % 0.1 % 283.3 % (14.3 )% Selling and promotional expenses $ 544.7 $ 485.4 $ 383.8 22.0 % 21.6 % 21.3 % 12.2 % 26.5 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Selling and promotional expenses increased as a percentage of revenue in 2006 versus 2005 and in 2005 versus 2004 due primarily to an increase in the number of enrollment advisors to support leads for our Internet advertising campaign and the establishment of a national qualifying center for efficiency and timelines in lead distribution. We also increased the entry level pay for enrollment advisors in an attempt to bring in more highly qualified staff. Advertising costs increased in 2005 over 2004 as a result of a planned focus on investment in increasing Internet based leads. 67 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased 58.6% in 2006 versus 2005, and 12.1% in 2005 versus 2004. The following table sets forth the increases in significant components of general and administrative expenses: % of Revenues % Change Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, 2006 vs. 2005 vs. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2005 2004 Restated (1) Restated (1) Restated (1) ($ in millions) Employee compensation and related expenses $ 73.7 $ 41.0 $ 41.8 3.0 % 1.8 % 2.3 % 79.8 % (1.9 )% Other general and administrative expenses 27.2 22.0 20.0 1.1 % 1.0 % 1.1 % 23.6 % 10.0 % Administrative space and depreciation 22.7 18.7 11.9 0.9 % 0.8 % 0.7 % 21.4 % 57.1 % Legal, audit, and corporate insurance 13.3 9.4 7.0 0.6 % 0.4 % 0.4 % 41.5 % 34.3 % Share based compensation 13.0 3.4 3.6 0.5 % 0.2 % 0.2 % 282.4 % (5.6 )% General and administrative expenses $ 149.9 $ 94.5 $ 84.3 6.1 % 4.2 % 4.7 % 58.6 % 12.1 % (1) See Note 3, Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Included in 2006 employee compensation and related expenses are severance expenses related to the Former CEO of $26.0 million. Excluding this amount, general and administrative expenses increased $29.4 million, or 31.1%. This remaining increase is primarily due to: $3.9 million increase in legal, audit, and corporate insurance expenses primarily due to legal defense costs associated with class action complaints; $9.6 million increase in share based compensation charges primarily resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123(R); $4.0 million of increased administrative space and depreciation costs due to higher information technology spending primarily as a result of the opening of a new data center in August 2005; and other increases including increased employee headcount to support our growth in 2006. General and administrative expenses increased $10.2 million in 2005 versus 2004 due primarily to increases in employee compensation and related expenses and administrative space and depreciation, as a result of our new data center that was completed in the third quarter of 2005, and an increase in legal, audit and corporate insurance costs associated with our class action complaints. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill is primarily the result of our acquisition of CFP in September 1997. As of August 31, 2006, we concluded that the goodwill for CFP was impaired in the amount of $20.2 million. This impairment was included in our Other Schools segment. In performing our annual impairment test, we assessed the recoverability of the goodwill by evaluating the future discounted cash flows and the fair value of CFPs tangible and intangible assets. The total discounted future cash flows was determined to be significantly less than our original expectations due to slower than forecasted revenue growth. After the impairment charge, our remaining goodwill totaled $16.9 million, which represents approximately 1.3% of total assets. There are no other long lived assets at CFP that we believe are impaired. Additional impairment of this goodwill could affect future results of operations. 68 Table of Contents Share Based Compensation Conversion of UPX Stock Options The conversion of UPX Online common stock on August 27, 2004, required us to record a share based compensation charge related to the conversion of UPX Online stock options into Apollo Group Class A stock options. As required by Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Statement No. 00 23 Issues Related to the Accounting for Stock Compensation under APB 25 and FASB Interpretation No. 44 (EITF 00 23), we recognized pre tax share based compensation expense of $16.9 million, and $100.3 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, as options vested. Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net increased $1.3 million in 2006 versus 2005, and increased $0.5 million in 2005 versus 2004. The increase in 2006 was primarily attributable to an increase in interest rates partially offset by a decrease in average cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities. The $0.5 million increase in 2005 versus 2004 includes a $1.7 million non cash impairment in 2004 for the write down of an investment in a venture capital fund. Excluding this non cash impairment, interest income and other, net would have decreased in 2005 versus 2004 by $1.2 million. The decrease in 2005 was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and marketable securities between periods primarily as a result of stock repurchases and capital expenditures, partially offset by increases in overall interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate decreased to 37.9% in 2006, from 40.1% in 2005, primarily as a result of a reduction in non deductible compensation and state taxes, combined with an increase in tax exempt interest. Our effective income tax rate was essentially flat between 2005 and 2004. Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchases, commitments, acquisitions and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations through at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. We believe that the most strategic uses of our cash resources include potential acquisition opportunities, possible repurchase of shares, and start up costs associated with new campuses. There are no transactions, arrangements, and other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons of whom we are aware of that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of our requirements for capital during at least the next 12 months. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased $49.9 million, or 10.9%, to $408.7 million as of August 31, 2006 from $458.6 million as of August 31, 2005. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities represented 35.8% and 31.9% of our total assets as of August 31, 2005 and August 31, 2006, respectively. The reduction was primarily due to $514.9 million of repurchases of Apollo Group Class A common stock and $111.2 million of capital expenditures, partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $551.0 million and cash provided by the issuance of Apollo Group Class A common stock of $29.0 million. 69 Table of Contents Cash Flows Operating Activities. Operating activities provided $551.0 million in cash during 2006 compared to providing $549.6 million in 2005. Included below is a summary of our operating cash flows: Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 Restated ($ in millions) Net income $ 414.8 $ 427.9 Non cash items 180.0 174.0 Changes in certain operating assets and liabilities (43.8 ) (52.3 ) Net cash from operating activities $ 551.0 $ 549.6 Our non cash items primarily consist of the following: Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 Restated ($ in millions) Share based compensation $ 27.7 $ 24.8 Excess tax benefits from share based compensation (17.5 ) Tax benefits from stock options exercised 42.6 Depreciation and amortization 67.3 45.6 Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable 101.0 57.1 Other, net 1.5 3.9 $ 180.0 $ 174.0 Changes in certain operating assets and liabilities primarily consist of the following (in millions): Year Ended August 31, 2006 2005 Restated ($ in millions) Accounts receivable, net $ (89.0 ) $ (99.9 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 20.4 (20.1 ) Student deposits 11.5 31.0 Deferred revenue 1.9 26.3 Other, net 11.4 10.4 $ (43.8 ) $ (52.3 ) Days sales outstanding (DSO) in accounts receivable as of August 31, 2006 and 2005, were 32 days and 34 days, respectively. Our accounts receivable and DSO are primarily affected by collections performance. Investing Activities. Investing activities provided $95.6 million in cash during 2006 compared to $193.5 million in 2005. The 2006 amount primarily includes net maturities of marketable securities including auction rate securities of $216.2 million, partially offset by $111.2 million of capital expenditures, which includes $66.6 million related to the build out of our new corporate headquarters building in Phoenix, Arizona. The 2005 amount primarily includes net maturities of marketable securities including auction rate securities of $286.6 million, partially offset by $94.5 million of capital expenditures, including $5.7 million for our new corporate headquarters. We expect to 70 Table of Contents spend $90.0 to $110.0 million on capital expenditures in 2007, of which approximately $40 50 million will be utilized for our new corporate headquarters building. On June 20, 2006, we entered into an option agreement (which was amended in November 2006) with Macquarie Riverpoint AZ, LLC (Macquarie). The option agreement allows us to execute a sale and simultaneous leaseback of the new corporate headquarters buildings located in Phoenix, Arizona. We anticipate beginning to occupy this building late in fiscal year 2007 and finishing construction by the end of the third quarter of 2008. In the third quarter of 2008, we anticipate executing the sale lease back option. When the sale leaseback option is exercised, we anticipate receiving approximately $170 million in cash for the building and land, and expect to generate a gain on the sale for approximately $20 30 million. The gain will be deferred over the 12 year term of the lease agreement. Financing Activities. Financing activities used $474.8 million of cash during 2006 compared to $755.4 million in 2005. These amounts primarily relate to repurchases of our Class A common stock, net of proceeds from stock option exercises. The Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase outstanding shares of Apollo Group Class A common stock, from time to time, depending on market conditions and other considerations. Shares of Apollo Group Class A common stock repurchased and reissued, and the related total cost, for the last two years is as follows: Maximum Average Value Total # of Price of Shares Shares Paid per Available for Repurchased Cost Share Repurchase (Numbers in millions, except per share amounts) Treasury stock as of August 31, 2004 $ $ $ 109.2 New authorizations 750.0 Shares repurchased 11.0 808.2 73.14 (808.2 ) Shares reissued (2.2 ) (162.5 ) 72.75 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2005 8.8 645.7 73.24 51.0 New authorizations 600.0 Shares repurchased 8.2 514.9 63.00 (514.9 ) Shares reissued (1.5 ) (106.6 ) 69.15 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2006 15.5 $ 1,054.0 $ 68.23 $ 136.1 Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The following table lists our contractual cash obligations as of August 31, 2006: Payments Due by Fiscal Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Operating lease obligations $ 132.1 $ 249.0 $ 187.9 $ 146.3 $ 715.3 Stadium naming rights(1) 7.2 12.1 12.8 122.4 154.5 Capital lease obligations 0.7 1.0 0.6 2.3 Purchase obligations(2) 41.1 41.1 Other long term obligations(3) 3.0 3.0 6.0 Total $ 184.1 $ 262.1 $ 201.3 $ 271.7 $ 919.2 71 Table of Contents (1) Amounts consist of an agreement for 20 year naming rights to the Glendale, Arizona Sports Complex (2) Amounts primarily consist of purchase obligations for construction of buildings for future expansion. (3) Amounts primarily consist of deferred compensation payments due to John G. Sperling, our Founder. We have no other material commercial commitments not included in the above table. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, which is incorporated by reference in this Part II, Item 7. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Impact of Inflation Inflation has not had a significant impact on our historical operations. Interest Rate Risk Our portfolio of marketable securities includes numerous issuers, varying types of securities, and varying maturities. We intend to hold all securities, other than auction rate securities, to maturity. During the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, interest income earned on our portfolio of marketable securities would have decreased $3.0 to $4.0 million due to a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates. We manage this interest rate risk by monitoring market conditions and the value of these assets. We have no significant short term or long term debt; therefore, we do not face any other significant interest rate risk. Concentration of Credit Risk A substantial portion of credit extended to students is paid through the students participation in various federal financial aid programs authorized by Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as reauthorized (the Higher Education Act), which the Company refers to as Title IV programs. The following table summarizes the Companys total revenues from Title IV programs for the fiscal years ended 2006, 2005, and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 ($ in millions) Total Title IV funding received $ 1,536.6 $ 1,345.4 $ 1,004.9 Total tuition and other revenues, net 2,477.5 2,251.1 1,800.0 Total Title IV funding as a percentage of total revenue 62.0 % 59.8 % 55.8 % We extend unsecured credit to a portion of the students enrolled. Receivables are not collateralized; however, credit risk is reduced as the amounts owed by any individual student is small relative to the total tuition receivable and the customer base is geographically diverse. 72 Table of Contents 
 
