Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MDA) is intended to help investors understand our results of operations, financial condition and present business environment. The MDA is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The MDA is organized as follows: Overview: From managements point of view, we discuss the following: An overview of our business and the sectors of the education industry in which we operate; Key trends, developments and challenges; and Key highlights from the current period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: A discussion of our accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations: An analysis of our results of operations as reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position: An analysis of cash flows, contractual obligations and other commercial commitments, and discussion of federal and private student loans. Overview Apollo is one of the worlds largest private education providers and has been a provider of education services for more than 35 years. We offer innovative and distinctive educational programs and services at the undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels at our various campuses and learning centers, and online throughout the world. Our wholly and majority owned subsidiaries include the following: University of Phoenix, Apollo Global: BPP Holdings, plc (BPP), Universidad de Artes, Ciencias y Comunicacin (UNIACC), Universidad Latinoamericana (ULA), Western International University, Institute for Professional Development (IPD), College for Financial Planning Institutes (CFFP), and Meritus University, Inc. (Meritus). We also operate online high school programs through our Insight Schools, Inc. (Insight Schools) wholly owned subsidiary, which is included in our Insight Schools reportable segment. Subsequent to our 2009 fiscal year end, we decided to explore the sale of Insight Schools. Substantially all of our net revenue is composed of tuition and fees for educational services. In fiscal year 2009, University of Phoenix, which is focused principally on working learners, accounted for approximately 95% of our total consolidated net revenue. University of Phoenix generated 86% of its cash basis revenue for eligible tuition and fees during fiscal year 2009 from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, as calculated under the 90/10 Rule, excluding the benefit from the temporary relief for loan limit increases. We believe that a critical element of generating successful long term growth and attractive returns for our stakeholders is to provide high quality educational products and services for our students in order for them to maximize the benefits of their educational experience. Accordingly, we are intensely focused on student success. We are continuously enhancing and expanding our current service offerings and investing in academic quality. We have developed customized computer programs for academic quality management, faculty recruitment and training, student tracking, and marketing to help us more effectively manage toward this objective. We believe we utilize one of the most comprehensive learning assessment programs in the U.S. We 53 Table of Contents are also focused on improving student retention by enhancing student services, promoting instructional innovation and improving academic support. All of these efforts are designed to help our students stay in school and succeed. In 2008, University of Phoenix published its first Academic Annual Report which contains a transparent look at a variety of comparative performance measures related to student outcomes and university initiatives related to quality and accountability. Key Trends, Developments and Challenges Our management team is focused on the following circumstances and trends that present opportunities, challenges and risks as we work toward our goal of providing attractive returns for all of our stakeholders: Evolving Domestic Postsecondary Education Market. We believe domestic postsecondary education continues to experience a profound shift from traditional undergraduate students (those students living on campus and attending classes full time) to non traditional students who work, are raising a family, or are doing both while trying to earn a college degree. This trend continues to provide an opportunity for education providers such as University of Phoenix to provide quality academic programs and services that appeal to non traditional students. We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on this trend. Economic Downturn. The U.S. and much of the world economy have been in the midst of an economic downturn. Although not quantifiable, we believe these conditions have contributed to a portion of our recent enrollment growth as an increased number of working learners seek to advance their education to improve their job security or reemployment prospects. One of our primary challenges will be to adequately and effectively service our increased student population without over building our infrastructure and delivery platform in a manner that might result in excess capacity when the portion of our growth related to the economic downturn subsides. Also, the economic downturn has negatively impacted our bad debt expense and allowance for doubtful accounts, as discussed below under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Regulatory Environment Compliance. Our domestic business is highly regulated by the U.S. Department of Education, the applicable academic accreditation agencies and state education regulatory authorities. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is a significant part of our administrative effort. In August 2008, the U.S. Congress reauthorized the Higher Education Act through 2013 by enacting the Higher Education Opportunity Act, which resulted in a large number of new and modified requirements that ultimately will be implemented through the U.S. Department of Education rulemaking. Little formal or informal guidance is available for many of these requirements, and we are evaluating their implications and developing appropriate compliance procedures. Because our student body is large and we rely heavily on our computer systems, compliance with new or changed regulations can require significant time and effort on our part. One requirement of the Higher Education Act, commonly referred to as the 90/10 Rule, applies to proprietary institutions such as the University of Phoenix and Western International University. Under this rule, a proprietary institution will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs if for any two consecutive fiscal years it derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue, as defined in the rule, from Title IV programs. An institution that exceeds this limit for any single fiscal year will be placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to additional sanctions. In recent years, the 90/10 Rule percentages for the University of Phoenix have trended closer to 90% and the percentage was 86%, excluding the benefit from the temporary relief for loan limit increases, for fiscal year 2009. We expect the trend will continue in fiscal year 2010. University of Phoenix is focused on implementing various measures to reduce the percentage of its cash basis revenue attributable to Title IV funds, including emphasizing employer paid and other direct pay education programs, encouraging students to carefully evaluate the amount of necessary Title IV borrowing, and increasing the emphasis on professional development and continuing education. Although we expect that these measures will favorably impact the 90/10 Rule calculation in the future, there is no 54 Table of Contents assurance that these initiatives will be effective or will be adequate to prevent the 90/10 Rule calculation from exceeding 90%. If this calculation exceeds 90% in fiscal 2010 or future fiscal years, we will need to increase our efforts to reduce the percentage of our cash basis revenue that is composed of Title IV funding. These efforts, and our other long term initiatives to impact this calculation, may involve taking measures which increase our operating expenses and or reduce our revenue. Title IV eligibility is critical to the continued operation of our business. See Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate U.S. Operations Our schools and programs would lose their eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs is too high. Certification. The Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, specifies the manner in which the U.S. Department of Education reviews institutions for eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs. Every educational institution involved in Title IV programs must be certified to participate and is required to periodically renew this certification. University of Phoenix was recertified in June 2003 and its current certification for the Title IV programs expired in June 2007. In March 2007, University of Phoenix submitted its Title IV recertification application to the U.S. Department of Education. We have been collaborating with the U.S. Department of Education since that date and continue to supply additional follow up information based on requests from the U.S. Department of Education. Our eligibility continues on a month to month basis until the U.S. Department of Education issues its decision on the application. We have no reason to believe that our application will not be renewed in due course. In February 2009, unrelated to our recertification application, the U.S. Department of Education performed an ordinary course, focused program review of University of Phoenixs policies and procedures involving Title IV programs. We have not yet received the program review report. Western International University was recertified in October 2003 and its current certification for participation in Title IV programs expired on June 30, 2009. In March 2009, Western International University submitted its Title IV recertification application to the U.S. Department of Education and Western International Universitys eligibility continues on a month to month basis until the U.S. Department of Education completes its review of the application and issues its decision. As with University of Phoenix, we have no reason to believe that the application will not be renewed in due course. Title IV eligibility is critical to the continued operation of our business. See Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate U.S. Operations If we are not recertified to participate in Title IV programs by the U.S. Department of Education, we would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Federal Direct Loan Program. In President Barack Obamas 2010 budget request delivered to Congress on February 26, 2009, the U.S. Department of Education proposed to eliminate the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) and instead require all Title IV student loans to be administered through the Federal Direct Loan Program (FDLP) commencing July 1, 2010. We expect to be able to fully transition from the FFELP program to the FDLP by the proposed July 1, 2010 phase out date, if necessary. If this proposal is adopted, the transition would require us to develop and implement administrative capabilities and procedures for volume processing of loans under the FDLP. If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the FDLP, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of the U.S. Department of Education to process the increased volume of direct loans on a timely basis, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely and materially affected. During fiscal year 2009, we began participating in the FDLP for a small portion of our Title IV eligible students. Opportunities to Expand into New Markets. We believe that there is a growing demand for high quality education outside the U.S. and that we have capabilities and expertise that can be useful in providing these services beyond our current reach. We believe we can deploy our key capabilities in student services, technology and marketing to expand into new markets to further our mission of 55 Table of Contents providing high quality, accessible education. We intend to actively pursue quality opportunities to partner with and or acquire existing institutions of higher learning where we believe we can achieve long term attractive growth and value creation. See discussion of BPP acquisition below in Fiscal Year 2009 Highlights. Focus on Integration. We expect to strategically add value by integrating our acquisitions and leveraging our experience to enhance the quality, delivery and student outcomes associated with the respective curricula. For a more detailed discussion of our business, industry and risks, refer to Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors. Fiscal Year 2009 Highlights During the fiscal year 2009, we experienced the following significant events: 1. Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment Growth. We achieved 20.8% growth in average University of Phoenix Degreed Enrollment in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. University of Phoenix aggregate New Degreed Enrollment increased 23.5% in fiscal year 2009 compared to 2008. We believe the enrollment growth is primarily attributable to continued investments in enhancing and expanding University of Phoenix service offerings and academic quality, which has attracted new students and increased student retention, and to enhancements in our marketing capabilities. We also believe that a portion of the increase in University of Phoenix Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment is due to the current economic downturn, as working learners seek to advance their education to improve their job security or reemployment prospects, and that this element of our growth will diminish as the economy and the employment outlook improve in the U.S. 2. Net Revenue Growth. Our net revenue increased 26.5% in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 primarily as a result of University of Phoenix Degreed Enrollment growth and selective tuition price increases. 3. Income from Operations Growth. Our income from operations increased 38.7%, or $290.0 million in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 primarily as a result of University of Phoenix net revenue growth described above and associated economies of scale from certain costs that remain relatively fixed. 4. Changes in Management and Addition of Directors. The following changes in management and addition of directors occurred during our fiscal year 2009: On April 24, 2009, our Board of Directors promoted Gregory W. Cappelli to the position of Co Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Cappelli had previously been serving as the Executive Vice President of Global Strategy and Assistant to the Executive Chairman. Mr. Cappelli continues to serve as Chairman of Apollo Global and Director of Apollo Group. On March 26, 2009, our Board of Directors promoted Joseph L. DAmico to President and Chief Operating Officer, Brian L. Swartz to Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Gregory J. Iverson to Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller. Mr. DAmico had previously been serving as President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Swartz had previously been serving as Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer, and Mr. Iverson had previously been serving as Vice President and Corporate Controller. On March 25, 2009, Frederick J. Newton commenced employment as Senior Vice President of Human Resources. On March 11, 2009, our Class B Shareholders reelected our existing ten incumbent directors to the Board of Directors and elected three additional directors: Terri C. Bishop, our Executive 56 Table of Contents Vice President of External Affairs, and independent directors, Stephen J. Giusto and Manuel F. Rivelo. 5. BPP. On July 30, 2009, our majority owned subsidiary, Apollo Global, acquired all of the outstanding shares of BPP, a United Kingdom headquartered provider of education and training to professionals in the legal and finance industries, for a purchase price of $601.6 million. Refer to Note 3, Acquisitions, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. 6. Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit Settlement Discussions. In September 2009, the parties to the action, along with the U.S. Department of Justice, participated in a private mediation in which the parties reached an agreement in principle regarding the financial terms of a potential settlement. Significant other terms remain to be negotiated, and there is no certainty that a final agreement will be reached. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, based on the settlement discussions to resolve this matter, we recorded a pre tax charge of $80.5 million which represents our best estimate of the loss related to this matter. The actual amount of this loss will not be known until a final settlement agreement, if any, is reached. Refer to Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our critical accounting policies involve a higher degree of judgments, estimates and complexity, and are as follows: Revenue Recognition Our educational programs, primarily composed of University of Phoenix programs, range in length from one day seminars to degree programs lasting up to four years. Students in University of Phoenix degree programs generally enroll in a program of study encompassing a series of five to nine week courses taken consecutively over the length of the program. Generally, students are billed on a course by course basis when the student first attends a session, resulting in the recording of a receivable from the student and deferred revenue in the amount of the billing. University of Phoenix students generally fund their education through grants and or loans under various Title IV programs, tuition assistance from their employers, or personal funds. Net revenue consists largely of tuition and fees associated with different educational programs as well as related educational resources such as access to online materials, books, and study texts. Net revenue is shown net of discounts. Tuition benefits for our employees and their eligible dependants are included in net revenue and instructional costs and services. Total employee tuition benefits were $90.5 million, $77.9 million and $63.8 million for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 57 Table of Contents The following table presents the most significant components of net revenue, and each component as a percentage of total net revenue, for the fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007: Year Ended August 31, ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Tuition and educational services revenue $ 3,835.7 96 % $ 2,996.1 95 % $ 2,553.1 94 % Educational materials revenue 226.4 6 % 184.4 6 % 161.0 6 % Services revenue 83.2 2 % 77.7 3 % 73.6 2 % Other revenue 28.3 1 % 43.9 1 % 48.5 2 % Gross Revenue 4,173.6 105 % 3,302.1 105 % 2,836.2 104 % Less: Discounts (199.4 ) (5 )% (161.2 ) (5 )% (112.4 ) (4 )% Net revenue $ 3,974.2 100 % $ 3,140.9 100 % $ 2,723.8 100 % Tuition and educational services revenue encompasses both online and classroom based learning. For our University of Phoenix and Western International University operations, tuition revenue is recognized pro rata over the period of instruction as services are delivered to students. BPP recognizes tuition revenue as services are provided over the course of the program, which varies depending on the program structure. For our remaining Apollo Global operations, tuition revenue is recognized over the length of the course, which is typically over a period of a semester. For Insight Schools, we generate the majority of our tuition and educational services revenue through long term contracts with school districts or not for profit organizations. The term for these contracts ranges from 5 to 10 years with provisions for renewal thereafter. We recognize revenue under these contracts over the period during which educational services are provided to students, which generally commences in August or September and ends in May or June. Educational materials revenue relates to online course materials delivered to students over the period of instruction. Revenue associated with these materials is recognized pro rata over the period of the related course to correspond with delivery of the materials to students. Educational materials also includes the sale of various books, study texts, course notes, and CDs for which we recognize revenue when the materials have been delivered to and accepted by students or other customers. Services revenue consists principally of the contractual share of tuition revenue from students enrolled in IPD programs at private colleges and universities (Client Institutions). IPD provides program development, administration and management consulting services to Client Institutions to establish or expand their programs for working learners. These services typically include degree program design, curriculum development, market research, student recruitment, accounting, and administrative services. IPD typically is paid a portion of the tuition revenue generated from these programs. IPDs contracts with its Client Institutions generally range in length from five to ten years, with provisions for renewal. The portion of service revenue to which we are entitled under the terms of the contracts is recognized as the services are provided. Other revenue consists of the fees students pay when submitting an enrollment application, which, along with the related application costs associated with processing the applications, are deferred and recognized over the average length of time it takes for a student to complete a program of study. Other revenue also includes non tuition generating revenues, such as renting classroom space and other student support services. Revenue from these sources is recognized as the services are provided. Discounts reflect reductions in tuition or other revenue including military, corporate, and other employer discounts, grants, institutional scholarships and promotions. Effective March 1, 2008, University of Phoenix changed its refund policy whereby students who attend 60% or less of a course are eligible for a refund for the portion of the course they did not attend. Under the prior refund policy, if a student dropped or withdrew after attending one class of a course, University of Phoenix earned 25% of the tuition for the course, and if they dropped or withdrew after attending two classes of a course, University of Phoenix earned 100% of the tuition for the course. Refunds are recorded as a 58 Table of Contents reduction in deferred revenue during the period that a student drops or withdraws from a class. This new refund policy applies to students in most, but not all states, as some states require different policies. Generally, net revenue varies from period to period based on several factors, including the aggregate number of students attending classes, the number of classes held during the period and the tuition price per credit hour. Net revenue excludes applicable state and city sales taxes. Sales tax collected from students is excluded from net revenue. Collected but unremitted sales tax is included as a liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and is not material to our consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We reduce accounts receivable by an allowance for amounts that may become uncollectible in the future. Estimates are used in determining the allowance for doubtful accounts and are based on historical collection experience and current trends. In determining these amounts, we consider and evaluate the historical write offs of our receivables. We monitor our collections and write off experience to assess whether adjustments are necessary. When a student with Title IV loans withdraws from University of Phoenix or Western International University, Title IV rules determine if we are required to return a portion of Title IV funds to the lenders. We are then entitled to collect these funds from the students, but collection rates for these types of receivables is significantly lower than our collection rates for receivables for students who remain in our educational programs. Management periodically evaluates the standard allowance estimation methodology for propriety and modifies as necessary. In doing so, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts reflects the most recent collections experience and is responsive to changes in trends. Our accounts receivable are written off once the account is deemed to be uncollectible. This typically occurs once we have exhausted all efforts to collect the account, which include collection attempts by our employees and outside collection agencies. For the purpose of sensitivity, a one percent change in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of gross student receivables as of August 31, 2009 would have resulted in a pre tax change in income of $3.8 million. Additionally, if our bad debt expense were to change by one percent of total net revenue for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009, we would have recorded a pre tax change in income of approximately $39.7 million. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the amount assigned to the net assets acquired and assumed liabilities. At the time of an acquisition, we allocate the goodwill and related assets to our respective reporting units. Please refer to Note 19, Segment Reporting, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. Our goodwill by reportable segment is summarized in the table below: Annual August 31, 2009 August 31, 2008 Impairment Goodwill Goodwill Reportable Segment Goodwill Balance is Recorded in Test Date Balance Balance ($ in thousands) University of Phoenix May 31 $ 37,018 $ 37,018 Apollo Global BPP(1) July 1 421,836 Apollo Global Other UNIACC May 31 11,197 1,635 ULA May 31 22,674 17,682 Insight Schools May 31 12,742 12,742 Other Schools CFFP August 31 15,310 15,310 Western International University May 31 1,581 1,581 $ 522,358 $ 85,968 (1) As BPP was recently acquired on July 30, 2009, we did not perform an annual goodwill impairment test for BPP during fiscal year 2009. 59 Table of Contents Goodwill is tested annually for impairment unless events occur or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the respective asset below its carrying amount. We test for goodwill impairment by applying a two step test. In the first step, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to the carrying value of its net assets. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then a second step must be performed in order to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the goodwill. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount of the goodwill. During fiscal year 2009, we completed our annual goodwill impairment tests for each of our reporting units, with the exception of BPP which was recently acquired on July 30, 2009. To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we rely primarily on using discounted cash flow valuation methods which requires management to make subjective judgments relating to future cash flows based on our knowledge of the business and current plans to operate the business, growth rates, economic and market conditions, and applicable discount rates. Changes in these estimates could materially affect the determination of fair value or goodwill impairment, or both. Generally, our goodwill impairment tests used discount rates ranging from 15.0% to 15.5%, perpetuity growth rates ranging from 1% to 3% and if applicable, terminal values that were calculated based on discounted cash flows. The discount rates were determined based on Apollo Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for company specific and macro economic risks inherent in the specific reporting unit. An increase of 100 basis points in the discount rates used in these analyses, with the exception of BPP, would result in an approximate $20 million decrease in the estimated aggregate fair value of those reporting units. We consider the use of this level of sensitivity in the discount rate reasonable considering the strength of Apollo Groups sustained operations and the probability weighting methodology used in our impairment tests. For certain of our goodwill impairment tests, we used a combination of the discounted cash flow analysis and market based approach, and applied a 75%/25% weighting factor to the respective approaches. To assess the reasonableness of our fair value analysis, when appropriate, we may evaluate our results against other measurement indicators such as comparable company public trading values, analyst estimates and values observed in private market transactions. At the time of the respective reporting units annual impairment test date, the fair value of each of these reporting units exceeded the carrying value of their respective net assets resulting in no goodwill impairment charges recorded. Additionally, for all of our reporting units, the fair value exceeded the carrying value by a sufficient margin, with the exception of CFFP as discussed below. The results of the annual impairment tests indicate that the current economic downturn has not had a significant long term adverse impact on the fair value of these reporting units, although we observed a narrowing of the margin between fair value and carrying value for certain of our reporting units. Insight Schools has encountered a number of administrative challenges in its compliance activities in the course of expanding its business. These challenges and start up expenses have limited its growth rate and resulted in decreased revenue and increased operating expenses. We considered this factor in our annual goodwill impairment test of Insight Schools and determined that the goodwill balance is not impaired. Subsequent to our 2009 fiscal year end, we decided to explore the sale of Insight Schools. With the exception of CFFP, Apollo Group was not required to perform interim goodwill impairment tests for its other reporting units, including BPP, during fiscal year 2009. We consider certain triggering events when evaluating whether an interim impairment analysis is warranted, including, among others, a significant decrease in the market capitalization of Apollo Group based on events specific to Apollo Groups operations; adverse changes in the accreditation, regulatory or legal environments and overall business climate; unexpected competition; loss of key management personnel and changes in the market acceptance of our educational programs. 60 Table of Contents At August 31, 2009, our CFFP reporting unit had goodwill of approximately $15.3 million. The economic downturn has caused the demand for CFFPs financial planning education programs and materials to diminish throughout fiscal year 2009 because CFFPs primary customers come from the financial services industry. Accordingly, we performed interim goodwill impairment tests as of November 30, 2008, February 28, 2009 and May 31, 2009 and evaluated and determined that the CFFP goodwill balance was not impaired. As of August 31, 2009, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test of CFFP using a consistent methodology as our previous interim tests and determined that the fair value of the CFFP reporting unit continued to exceed the carrying value of its net assets by a narrow margin. Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Indefinite lived intangible assets are recorded at fair market value on their acquisition date and primarily include trademarks and foreign regulatory accreditations and designations as a result of the BPP, UNIACC and ULA acquisitions. At August 31, 2009 and 2008, our indefinite lived intangible asset balances were $145.5 million and $6.6 million, respectively. We assign indefinite lives to acquired trademarks, accreditations and designations that we believe have the continued ability to generate cash flows indefinitely; have no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors limiting the useful life of the respective intangible asset; and when we intend to renew the respective trademark, accreditation or designation and renewal can be accomplished at little cost. Indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized, but rather are tested for impairment at least annually, unless events occur or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the respective asset below its carrying amount. The impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. To determine the fair value of these intangible assets, we use various valuation models, such as discounted cash flow analysis or the relief from royalty method. We perform our annual indefinite lived intangible asset impairment tests for each reporting unit on the same dates that we perform our annual goodwill impairment tests for the respective reporting units. During fiscal year 2009, we completed our annual impairment tests for our indefinite lived intangible assets at ULA and UNIACC totaling $13.3 million and determined there was no impairment. Apollo did not perform an annual impairment test of the indefinite lived intangible assets recently acquired in the BPP acquisition on July 30, 2009 nor were we required to perform interim impairment tests for any of our indefinite lived intangible assets during fiscal year 2009. Finite Lived Intangible Assets Finite lived intangible assets that are acquired in business combinations are recorded at fair market value on their acquisition date and are amortized on either a straight line basis or using an accelerated method to reflect the economic useful life of the asset. The weighted average useful lives range from 2 to 15 years. At August 31, 2009 and 2008, our finite lived intangible asset balances were $58.2 million and $16.5 million, respectively. As further discussed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we will adopt SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157), with respect to using fair value measurements in the valuation techniques associated with our annual goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets impairment tests effective September 1, 2009. Other Long Lived Asset Impairments We evaluate the carrying amount of our major long lived assets, including property and equipment and finite lived intangible assets, whenever changes in circumstances or events indicate that the value of such assets may not be fully recoverable. At August 31, 2009, we believe the carrying amounts of our long lived assets are fully recoverable and no impairment exists. 61 Table of Contents Loss Contingencies We are subject to various claims and contingencies which are in the scope of ordinary and routine litigation incidental to our business, including those related to regulation, litigation, business transactions, employee related matters and taxes, among others. When we become aware of a claim or potential claim, the likelihood of any loss or exposure is assessed. If it is probable that a loss will result and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the loss. The liability recorded includes probable and estimable legal costs incurred to date and future legal costs to the point in the legal matter where we believe a conclusion to the matter will be reached. If the loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose the claim if the likelihood of a potential loss is reasonably possible and the amount of the potential loss could be material. For matters where no loss contingency is recorded, our policy is to expense legal fees as incurred. Accounting for Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the new rate is enacted. We evaluate and account for uncertain tax positions using a two step approach. Recognition (step one) occurs when we conclude that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. Measurement (step two) determines the amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Derecognition of a tax position that was previously recognized would occur when we subsequently determine that a tax position no longer meets the more likely than not threshold of being sustained. We do not use a valuation allowance as a substitute for derecognition of tax positions. Share Based Compensation We measure and recognize compensation expense for all share based awards issued to faculty, employees and directors based on estimated fair values of the share awards on the date of grant. We record compensation expense for all share based awards over the vesting period. We calculate the fair value of share based awards on the date of grant. For stock options, we typically use the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model to estimate fair value. The Black Scholes Merton option pricing model requires us to estimate key assumptions such as expected term, volatility, risk free interest rates and dividend yield to determine the fair value of stock options, based on both historical information and management judgment regarding market factors and trends. We generally use the simplified mid point method to estimate expected term of stock options. The simplified method uses the mid point between the vesting term and the contractual term of the share option. We have analyzed the circumstances in which the use of the simplified method is allowed, and we have opted to use this method for stock options granted to management in fiscal years 2009 and 2008 because the options granted in prior fiscal years had different terms, such as contractual lives and acceleration provisions. Thus, historical data is not comparable in order to determine the expected term of awards. We expect to continue to use this method until sufficient reliable historical data is available that will enable us to estimate expected term by a more precise method We amortize the share based compensation expense over the period that the awards are expected to vest, net of estimated forfeiture rates. We estimate expected forfeitures of share based awards at the grant date and recognize compensation cost only for those awards expected to vest. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on several factors including historical forfeiture activity, expected future employee turnover, and other qualitative factors. We ultimately adjust this forfeiture assumption to actual forfeitures. Therefore, changes in the forfeiture assumptions do not impact the total amount of expense ultimately recognized over the vesting period. Rather, different forfeiture assumptions only impact the timing of expense recognition over the vesting 62 Table of Contents period. If the actual forfeitures differ from management estimates, additional adjustments to compensation expense are recorded. We used the following weighted average assumptions in the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model for stock options granted in each fiscal year: Year Ended August 31, 2009 2008 2007 Expected volatility 47.7 % 44.2 % 32.7 % Expected life (years) 4.2 4.2 4.2 Risk free interest rate 2.2 % 2.9 % 4.9 % Dividend yield 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % The assumptions that have the most significant affect on the fair value of the grants and therefore, share based compensation expense, are the expected life and expected volatility. The following table illustrates how changes to the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model assumptions would affect the weighted average per option fair values as of the grant date for grants made during fiscal year 2009: Expected Volatility Expected Life (Years) 42.9% 47.7% 52.5% 3.7 $ 23.57 $ 25.72 $ 27.83 4.2 25.07 27.32 29.52 4.7 26.48 28.81 31.09 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for recent accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations We have included below a discussion of our operating results and significant items which explain the material changes in our operating results during the fiscal years ended August 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Our operations are generally subject to seasonal trends. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations as a result of changes in the level of student enrollments. While University of Phoenix enrolls students throughout the year, our net revenue generally is lower in the second quarter (December through February) than the other quarters due to holiday breaks in December and January. Most of our other subsidiaries experience more significant seasonality, as they have limited enrollment during their respective summer breaks. We categorize our operating expenses as instructional costs and services, selling and promotional, and general and administrative. Instructional costs and services consist primarily of costs related to the delivery and administration of our educational programs and include costs related to faculty and administrative compensation, classroom and faculty administration lease expenses and depreciation, bad debt expense, financial aid processing costs and other related costs. Tuition costs for all employees and their eligible family members are recorded as an expense within instructional costs and services. Selling and promotional costs consist primarily of compensation for enrollment counselors, management and support staff and corporate marketing, advertising expenses, production of marketing materials, and other costs directly related to selling and promotional functions. Selling and promotional costs are expensed when incurred. General and administrative costs consist primarily of corporate compensation, occupancy costs, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, legal and professional fees, and other related costs. 63 Table of Contents For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009 compared to the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008 Analysis of Consolidated Statements of Income The table below details our consolidated results of operations. For a more detailed discussion by reportable segment, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Segment. % of Net Revenue Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, % (in millions, except per share data) 2009 2008 2009 2008 Change Net revenue $ 3,974.2 $ 3,140.9 100.0 % 100.0 % 26.5 % Costs and expenses: Instructional costs and services 1,603.7 1,370.9 40.3 % 43.6 % 17.0 % Selling and promotional 960.4 805.4 24.2 % 25.6 % 19.2 % General and administrative 290.1 215.2 7.3 % 6.9 % 34.8 % Estimated litigation loss 80.5 2.0 % * Total costs and expenses 2,934.7 2,391.5 73.8 % 76.1 % 22.7 % Income from operations 1,039.5 749.4 26.2 % 23.9 % 38.7 % Interest income 12.6 30.1 0.3 % 1.0 % (58.1 )% Interest expense (4.5 ) (3.5 ) (0.1 )% (0.1 )% 28.6 % Other, net (7.8 ) 6.8 (0.2 )% 0.2 % * Income before income taxes and minority interest 1,039.8 782.8 26.2 % 25.0 % 32.8 % Provision for income taxes (446.0 ) (306.9 ) (11.2 )% (9.8 )% 45.3 % Minority interest, net of tax 4.5 0.6 0.1 % * Net income $ 598.3 $ 476.5 15.1 % 15.2 % 25.6 % Diluted income per share $ 3.75 $ 2.87 * * 30.7 % * not meaningful Net Revenue Our net revenue increased $833.3 million, or 26.5%, in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. University of Phoenix represented approximately 95% of our net revenue during this period, and contributed the majority of the increase primarily due to growth in Degreed Enrollment and selective tuition price and other fee changes. Net revenue also increased $54.0 million primarily from Apollo Global earning a full year of revenue from acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2008. For a more detailed discussion, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Segment. Instructional Costs and Services Instructional costs and services increased $232.8 million, or 17.0%, in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008, but represents a 330 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to University of Phoenix continuing to leverage its fixed costs, such as certain employee wages, classroom space and depreciation expense, and a decrease in financial aid processing costs from the favorable renegotiation, effective September 2008, of our contract with our outsourced financial aid processing vendor. This was partially offset by increases in expense as a percentage of net revenue at Apollo Global associated with its start up, development and other infrastructure and support costs, as well as an increase as a percentage of net revenue in bad debt expense. Our bad debt expense was 3.8% of net revenue in fiscal year 2009 compared to 3.3% of net revenue in fiscal year 2008. Selling and Promotional Selling and promotional expenses increased $155.0 million, or 19.2%, in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008, but represents a 140 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a 64 Table of Contents percentage of net revenue is primarily due to University of Phoenix improved enrollment counselor effectiveness. Additionally, investments we have made in our corporate marketing function have resulted in more effective advertising. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased $74.9 million, or 34.8%, in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 representing a 40 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to (a) administrative expenses to support our strategic growth initiatives and enhance our corporate governance, (b) increased legal costs in connection with defending ourselves in legal matters described elsewhere in this report, and (c) the write off of $9.4 million of information technology fixed assets that resulted primarily from our rationalization of software. Estimated Litigation Loss In connection with the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit, we recorded an accrual of $80.5 million in fiscal year 2009 based on settlement discussions to resolve this matter. See Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. Interest Income Interest income decreased $17.5 million in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. The decrease is primarily due to lower interest rate yields, which was partially offset by increases in average cash and cash equivalents balances (including restricted cash) during the respective periods. When the Federal Reserve Bank lowers the Federal Funds Rate, it generally results in a reduction in our interest rates. The reduction of the Federal Funds Rate in December 2008 to the range of 0.0% 0.25% has lowered our average interest rate yield for fiscal year 2009 below 1%. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $1.0 million in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 due to an increase in average borrowings during the respective periods, principally due to debt incurred by subsidiaries of Apollo Global and borrowings on our syndicated $500 million credit agreement (the Bank Facility). Subsequent to August 31, 2009, we repaid the U.S. dollar denominated debt on our Bank Facility of $393 million that was outstanding at August 31, 2009. Refer to Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position for further discussion. Other Expense, Net The loss in fiscal year 2009 was primarily attributable to $6.9 million of expense incurred for the purchase of a call option to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations related to the BPP acquisition. The remaining loss primarily relates to net foreign currency losses related to our international operations. The income in fiscal year 2008 was primarily attributable to other income of $9.5 million from the forfeiture of an escrow deposit provided in connection with a now cancelled agreement to sell and leaseback our headquarters, which was partially offset by net foreign currency losses related to our international operations Provision for Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2009 was 42.9% compared to 39.2% for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008. The increase was primarily attributable to the following items: The estimated tax impact on the estimated litigation loss; An increase in state taxes due to the allocation of our online operations income amongst various U.S. state and local jurisdictions; A reduction in our tax exempt interest income; 65 Table of Contents An increase in net operating losses for which we cannot currently take a tax benefit; and Certain compensation that may not meet the requirements for deductibility under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). Minority Interest, net of tax The minority interest increased in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 due to an increase in Apollo Globals net losses in fiscal year 2009. For a more detailed discussion, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Segment. Analysis of Operating Results by Segment Year Ended August 31, $ % ($ in millions) 2009 2008 Change Change Net revenue University of Phoenix $ 3,766.6 $ 2,987.7 $ 778.9 26.1 % Apollo Global: BPP 13.1 13.1 * Other 54.3 13.4 40.9 305.2 % Total Apollo Global 67.4 13.4 54.0 403.0 % Insight Schools 20.6 7.5 13.1 174.7 % Other Schools 116.8 122.5 (5.7 ) (4.7 )% Corporate(1) 2.8 9.8 (7.0 ) (71.4 )% Total net revenue $ 3,974.2 $ 3,140.9 $ 833.3 26.5 % Income (loss) from operations University of Phoenix $ 1,131.3 $ 817.6 $ 313.7 38.4 % Apollo Global: BPP (6.6 ) (6.6 ) * Other (11.5 ) (1.9 ) (9.6 ) (505.3 )% Total Apollo Global (18.1 ) (1.9 ) (16.2 ) (852.6 )% Insight Schools (28.6 ) (18.9 ) (9.7 ) (51.3 )% Other Schools 7.0 20.3 (13.3 ) (65.5 )% Corporate(1) (52.1 ) (67.7 ) 15.6 23.0 % Total income from operations $ 1,039.5 $ 749.4 $ 290.1 38.7 % (1) The Corporate caption in our segment reporting includes adjustments to reconcile segment results to consolidated results, which primarily consist of net revenue and corporate charges that are not allocated to our segments. * not meaningful 66 Table of Contents University of Phoenix The $778.9 million, or 26.1%, increase in net revenue in our University of Phoenix segment was primarily due to enrollment growth as detailed below: Degreed Enrollment Combined New Degreed Enrollment(1) Quarter Ended August 31, % Year Ended August 31, % (rounded to the nearest hundred) 2009 2008 Change 2009 2008 Change Associates 201,200 146,500 37.3 % 191,700 143,400 33.7 % Bachelors 163,600 141,800 15.4 % 108,900 92,400 17.9 % Masters 71,200 67,700 5.2 % 51,900 49,400 5.1 % Doctoral 7,000 6,100 14.8 % 3,300 3,000 10.0 % Total 443,000 362,100 22.3 % 355,800 288,200 23.5 % (1) Calculated as the sum of each quarters New Degreed Enrollment during the fiscal year. Enrollment growth in Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment is in part the result of investments in enhancing and expanding University of Phoenix academic quality and service offerings, which has attracted new students and increased student retention. Enhancements in our marketing effectiveness have also contributed to the increases. Also, we believe that a portion of the increase is due to the current economic downturn, as working learners seek to advance their education to improve their job security or reemployment prospects, and that this element of our growth may diminish as the economy and the employment outlook improve in the U.S. In addition to the growth in Degreed Enrollment, net revenue increased due to selective tuition price and other fee changes implemented in July 2009 and July 2008, depending on geographic area, program, and degree level. In the aggregate, the July 2009 selective price and other fee changes, including increases in discounts for military and veteran students, averaged approximately 4%. The July 2008 selective tuition price and other fee changes included an approximate 10% increase in associates degree tuition price and increases averaging 4% to 5% for bachelors and masters degree programs. The impact of these price and other fee changes on future net revenue and operating income will continue to be impacted by changes in enrollment, changes in student mix within programs and degree levels, and changes in discounts. The increase in net revenue was partially offset by a continued shift in our student body mix to a higher percentage of students enrolled in associates degree programs, which have tuition prices generally lower than other degree programs. Associates Degreed Enrollment represented 45.4% of Degreed Enrollment during the quarter ended August 31, 2009, compared to 40.5% during the quarter ended August 31, 2008. In addition, associates Degreed Enrollment increased 37.3% in the quarter ended August 31, 2009 compared to the quarter ended August 31, 2008. Income from operations in our University of Phoenix segment increased $313.7 million, or 38.4%, during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. The increase in income from operations was positively impacted by the following: Economies of scale associated with the 26.1% increase in University of Phoenix net revenue as many costs remain relatively fixed such as certain employee wages, classroom space and depreciation when University of Phoenix grows its net revenue. Additionally, variable employee headcount has grown at a lower rate than the increase in net revenue; A decrease in financial aid processing costs from the favorable renegotiation, effective September 2008, of our contract with our outsourced financial aid processing vendor; Investments in our corporate marketing function that have produced more effective and efficient advertising resulting in a decrease in advertising expense as a percentage of net revenue; and An increase in enrollment counselor effectiveness as a result of internal initiatives to assist enrollment counselors in their jobs, as well as an increase in the average tenure of enrollment counselors. 67 Table of Contents Income from operations was negatively impacted by the $80.5 million estimated litigation loss recorded in connection with the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit. See Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. Income from operations was also negatively impacted by increased bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenue resulting from the continued economic downturn, the continuing increase in enrollment in our associates degree programs and lower collection rates on aged accounts receivable. Apollo Global Apollo Global net revenue increased $54.0 million during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. The net revenue was generated by BPP, which was acquired on July 30, 2009 and UNIACC and ULA, which was acquired in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2008, respectively. The $18.1 million loss from operations for Apollo Global during fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to the following: General and administrative expenses associated with the pursuit of opportunities to partner with and or acquire existing institutions of higher learning where we believe we can achieve long term attractive growth and value creation; Investment in BPP, UNIACC and ULA including, but not limited to, initiatives to expand offerings and enhance academic quality and marketing. Insight Schools The $13.1 million increase in net revenue in our Insight Schools segment during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to an increase in the number of schools served in fiscal year 2009 and an aggregate increase in enrollment in the schools that were in operation during fiscal years 2009 and 2008. The increase in the loss from operations was primarily due to increased regulatory compliance costs and additional start up costs for items such as faculty, office space and depreciation, and other infrastructure and support costs to grow this business. Insight Schools has encountered a number of administrative challenges in its compliance activities in the course of expanding its business. These challenges resulted in a decrease in the number of states in which Insight Schools serves students during fiscal year 2009. These challenges have limited the growth rate of the Insight Schools business and increased its operating expenses. We believe Insight Schools will continue to generate operating losses in the near term. Subsequent to our 2009 fiscal year end, we decided to explore the sale of Insight Schools. There is no assurance that we will be able to sell these operations on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition to the costs incurred in connection with such a disposition, we may realize a loss on sale. As of August 31, 2009, the goodwill balance of Insight Schools was $12.7 million. If we are unable to dispose of these operations on terms acceptable to us, we may decide to continue providing some or all of the services now provided by Insight Schools under its service contracts for the remainder of the terms of such contracts, which have remaining terms of 1 to 9 years. Other Schools The $5.7 million decrease in net revenue in our Other Schools segment was primarily due to Western International University associates degree program students graduating or withdrawing from the program. In April 2006, we began offering associates degree programs at University of Phoenix instead of Western International University; however, we have continued to service the existing associates degree students at Western International University until graduation, withdrawal or transfer to University of Phoenix. Additionally, CFFPs net revenue declined due to a decrease in demand for CFFPs financial planning education programs and materials as a result of the current economic downturn. 68 Table of Contents The decrease in income from operations in our Other Schools segment was primarily due to our investments in developing Meritus University and the decrease in net revenue discussed above. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008 compared to the fiscal year ended August 31, 2007 Analysis of Consolidated Statements of Income % of Net Revenue Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, % (in millions, except per share data) 2008 2007 2008 2007 Change Net revenue $ 3,140.9 $ 2,723.8 100.0 % 100.0 % 15.3 % Costs and expenses: Instructional costs and services 1,370.9 1,237.5 43.6 % 45.4 % 10.8 % Selling and promotional 805.4 659.1 25.6 % 24.2 % 22.2 % General and administrative 215.2 201.5 6.9 % 7.4 % 6.8 % Total costs and expenses 2,391.5 2,098.1 76.1 % 77.0 % 14.0 % Income from operations 749.4 625.7 23.9 % 23.0 % 19.8 % Interest income 30.1 31.2 1.0 % 1.1 % (3.5 )% Interest expense (3.5 ) (0.2 ) (0.1 )% * Other, net 6.8 0.6 0.2 % * Income before income taxes and minority interest 782.8 657.3 25.0 % 24.1 % 19.1 % Provision for income taxes (306.9 ) (248.5 ) (9.8 )% (9.1 )% 23.5 % Minority interest, net of tax 0.6 * Net income $ 476.5 $ 408.8 15.2 % 15.0 % 16.6 % Diluted income per share $ 2.87 $ 2.35 * * 22.1 % * not meaningful Net Revenue Our net revenue increased $417.1 million, or 15.3% in fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007. University of Phoenix represented approximately 95% of our net revenue during this period, and contributed the majority of the increase primarily due to growth in Degreed Enrollment and selective tuition price increases. Net revenue also increased due to acquisitions by Apollo Global completed during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2008, which contributed $13.4 million in net revenue in fiscal year 2008. For a more detailed discussion, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Segment. Instructional Costs and Services Instructional costs and services increased $133.4 million, or 10.8%, in fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007, but represents a 180 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to University of Phoenix leveraging its fixed costs, such as certain employee wages, classroom space and depreciation expense. Additionally, bad debt decreased to 3.3% of net revenue in fiscal year 2008 compared to 4.4% of net revenue in fiscal year 2007 due to increased focus on collections. 69 Table of Contents Selling and Promotional Selling and promotional expenses increased $146.3 million, or 22.2%, in fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 representing a 140 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to increases as a percentage of net revenue in enrollment counselors compensation, advertising expenses and additional marketing costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased $13.7 million, or 6.8%, in fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007, but represents a 50 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. Additionally, general and administrative expenses in fiscal year 2007 included $33.8 million of expense related to the following items that were unusual in nature: costs associated with the restatement of our financial statements, stock option modifications, and a fair value adjustment for former employee stock options. Excluding these unusual items, general and administrative expenses increased 70 basis points as a percentage of net revenue primarily due to increased costs to support our strategic growth initiatives and enhance our corporate governance, as well as increased legal costs in connection with defending ourselves in legal matters described elsewhere in this report. Interest Income Interest income decreased $1.1 million in fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 due to lower average balances and lower yields on our cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash) and marketable securities. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $3.3 million in fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 due to an increase in average borrowings, including capital leases, during the respective periods. Other Income, Net The income in fiscal year 2008 was primarily attributable to other income of $9.5 million from the forfeiture of an escrow deposit provided in connection with a now cancelled agreement to sell and leaseback our headquarters, which was partially offset by net foreign currency losses related to our international operations. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate for fiscal year 2008 was 39.2% compared to 37.8% for fiscal year 2007. This increase was primarily the result of a decrease in tax exempt interest and an increase in non deductible foreign losses. Minority Interest, net of tax The minority interest during fiscal year 2008 was due to Apollo Globals net losses. For a more detailed discussion, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Segment. 70 Table of Contents Analysis of Operating Results by Segment The table below details our operating results by segment for the periods indicated: Year Ended August 31, $ % ($ in millions) 2008 2007 Change Change Net revenue University of Phoenix $ 2,987.7 $ 2,537.8 $ 449.9 17.7 % Apollo Global 13.4 13.4 * Insight Schools 7.5 2.0 5.5 275.0 % Other Schools 122.5 182.6 (60.1 ) (32.9 )% Corporate(1) 9.8 1.4 8.4 600.0 % Total net revenue $ 3,140.9 $ 2,723.8 $ 417.1 15.3 % Income (loss) from operations University of Phoenix $ 817.6 $ 656.3 $ 161.3 24.6 % Apollo Global (1.9 ) (1.9 ) * Insight Schools (18.9 ) (6.3 ) (12.6 ) (200.0 )% Other Schools 20.3 42.7 (22.4 ) (52.5 )% Corporate(1) (67.7 ) (67.0 ) (0.7 ) (1.0 )% Total income from operations $ 749.4 $ 625.7 $ 123.7 19.8 % (1) The Corporate caption in our segment reporting includes adjustments to reconcile segment results to consolidated results, which primarily consist of net revenue and corporate charges that are not allocated to our segments. * not meaningful University of Phoenix The $449.9 million, or 17.7%, increase in net revenue in our University of Phoenix segment was primarily due to enrollment growth as detailed below: Degreed Enrollment Combined New Degreed Enrollment(1) Quarter Ended August 31, % Year Ended August 31, % (rounded to the nearest hundred) 2008 2007 Change 2008 2007 Change Associates 146,500 104,500 40.2 % 143,400 116,000 23.6 % Bachelors 141,800 138,700 2.2 % 92,400 90,900 1.7 % Masters 67,700 65,300 3.7 % 49,400 48,800 1.2 % Doctoral 6,100 5,200 17.3 % 3,000 2,800 7.1 % Total 362,100 313,700 15.4 % 288,200 258,500 11.5 % (1) Calculated as the sum of each quarters New Degreed Enrollment during the fiscal year. The increase in net revenue is also a result of selective tuition price increases implemented in July 2008, depending on geographic area, program, and degree level. The selective tuition price increases included an approximate 10% increase in associates degree tuition price and increases averaging 4% to 5% for bachelors and masters degree programs. The increase in net revenue was partially offset by a continued shift in student body mix to a higher percentage of students enrolled in associates degree programs, which have tuition prices generally lower than other degree programs. Associates Degreed Enrollment represented 40.5% of Degreed Enrollment during the quarter ended August 31, 2008, compared to 33.3% during the quarter ended August 31, 71 Table of Contents 2007. In addition, associates Degreed Enrollment increased 40.2% during the quarter ended August 31, 2008 compared to the quarter ended August 31, 2007. Income from operations in our University of Phoenix segment increased $161.3 million, or 24.6%, during fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007. This increase in income from operations was positively impacted by the following: Economies of scale associated with the 17.7% increase in University of Phoenix net revenue as several costs remain relatively fixed such as certain employee wages, classroom space and depreciation when University of Phoenix grows its net revenue; and A decrease as a percent of net revenue in bad debt expense; and Income from operations was negatively impacted by increases as a percent of net revenue in enrollment counselors compensation and related expenses, and additional marketing costs. Apollo Global The $13.4 million in net revenue for Apollo Global during fiscal year 2008 was due to net revenue generated by UNIACC, which was acquired by Apollo Global in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008. The $1.9 million loss from operations for Apollo Global during fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to the following: General and administrative expenses associated with the pursuit of opportunities to partner with and or acquire existing institutions of higher learning where we believe we can achieve long term attractive growth and value creation; and Investment in UNIACC including, but not limited to, initiatives to enhance academic quality and marketing. Insight Schools The $5.5 million increase in net revenue in our Insight Schools segment during fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 was due to a full year of operating results following the acquisition of Insight Schools and an increase in the number of schools served by Insight Schools. The increase in the loss from operations was primarily due to additional start up costs for items such as faculty, office space and depreciation, and other infrastructure and support costs to grow this business. Other Schools The $60.1 million decrease in net revenue in our Other Schools segment during fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007 was primarily due to Western International University associates degree program students graduating or withdrawing from the program. In April 2006, we began offering associates degree programs at University of Phoenix instead of Western International University; however, we have continued to service the existing associates degree students at Western International University until graduation, withdrawal or transfer to University of Phoenix. The decrease in income from operations in our Other Schools segment was primarily due to the decrease in net revenue discussed above. Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and available liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations through at least the next 12 months. We believe that the most strategic uses of our cash resources include investments in the continued enhancement and expansion of our student offerings, acquisition opportunities including our commitment to Apollo Global, investments in marketing and information technology initiatives, and share repurchases. 72 Table of Contents Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash and Cash Equivalents The following table provides a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents at August 31, 2009 and 2008: % of Total Assets August 31, August 31, % ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2009 2008 Change Cash and cash equivalents $ 968.2 $ 483.2 29.7 % 26.0 % 100.4 % Restricted cash and cash equivalents 432.3 384.1 13.2 % 20.6 % 12.5 % Total $ 1,400.5 $ 867.3 42.9 % 46.6 % 61.5 % Cash and cash equivalents (excluding restricted cash) increased $485.0 million primarily due to $960.2 million of cash generated from operations, $475.8 million of net proceeds from borrowings, $117.1 million from stock option exercises and $59.0 million from minority interest contributions, which was partially offset by $523.8 million used for acquisitions, $452.5 million used for the repurchase of shares of our Class A common stock, $127.3 million used for capital expenditures, and an increase of $48.2 million in restricted cash. We measure our money market funds included in cash and restricted cash equivalents at fair value. Our money market funds totaling $1,400.5 million were valued primarily using real time quotes for transactions in active exchange markets involving identical assets. As of August 31, 2009, we did not record any material adjustments to reflect these instruments at fair value. Debt On January 4, 2008, we entered into a syndicated $500 million credit agreement (the Bank Facility). The Bank Facility is an unsecured revolving credit facility used for general corporate purposes including acquisitions and stock buybacks. The Bank Facility has an expansion feature for an aggregate principal amount of up to $250 million. The term is five years and will expire on January 4, 2013. The Bank Facility provides a multi currency sub limit facility for borrowings in certain specified foreign currencies up to $300 million. We borrowed our entire credit line under the Bank Facility as of August 31, 2009, which included 63.0 million denominated in British Pounds related to the BPP acquisition, and, accordingly, we did not have any availability under the Bank Facility as of August 31, 2009. We have classified the U.S. dollar denominated debt on our Bank Facility of $393 million within short term borrowings and current portion of long term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as it has been repaid subsequent to August 31, 2009. The Bank Facility fees are determined based on a pricing grid that varies according to our leverage ratio. The Bank Facility fee ranges from 12.5 to 17.5 basis points and the incremental fees for borrowings under the facility range from LIBOR + 50.0 to 82.5 basis points. The weighted average interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the Bank Facility at August 31, 2009 was 1.0%. The Bank Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including the following financial covenants: maximum leverage ratio, minimum coverage interest and rent expense ratio, and a U.S. Department of Education financial responsibility composite score. In addition, there are covenants restricting indebtedness, liens, investments, asset transfers and distributions. We also have an additional $72.1 million of variable rate debt and $13.6 million of fixed rate debt at the subsidiaries of Apollo Global. The weighted average interest rate of these debt instruments at August 31, 2009 was 2.8%. 73 Table of Contents Cash Flows Operating Activities The following table provides a summary of our operating cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31, ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Net income $ 598.3 $ 476.5 $ 408.8 Non cash items 372.4 212.8 194.2 Changes in certain operating assets and liabilities (10.5 ) 36.7 (14.4 ) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 960.2 $ 726.0 $ 588.6 Fiscal year 2009 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $152.5 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $100.5 million for depreciation and amortization, $80.5 million for an estimated litigation loss, and $68.0 million for share based compensation, which was partially offset by $18.5 million of excess tax benefits from share based compensation. The changes in certain operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $192.3 million increase in accounts receivable, primarily due to increased enrollment, as well as a delay in disbursements of certain Title IV funds prior to year end (see further discussion below). This was partially offset by an $80.3 million increase in deferred revenue and a $59.5 million increase in student deposits, both of which were primarily due to increased enrollment, and an increase of $45.4 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Fiscal year 2008 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $104.2 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $79.8 million for depreciation and amortization, and $53.6 million for share based compensation, which was partially offset by $18.6 million of excess tax benefits from share based compensation. The changes in certain operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an $85.3 million increase in student deposits and a $35.3 million increase in deferred revenue, both of which were primarily due to increased enrollment. This was partially offset by a $105.7 million increase in accounts receivable, also primarily due to increased enrollment. Fiscal year 2007 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $120.6 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $71.4 million for depreciation and amortization, and $54.0 million for share based compensation, which was partially offset by $46.0 million of deferred income taxes. The changes in certain operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $150.9 million increase in accounts receivable, primarily due to increased enrollment, which was partially offset by a $73.9 million increase in student deposits and a $31.0 million increase in deferred revenue, also primarily due to increased enrollment, and a $31.2 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. We monitor our accounts receivable through a variety of metrics, including days sales outstanding. We calculate our days sales outstanding by determining average daily student revenue based on a rolling twelve month analysis and divide it into the gross student accounts receivable balance as of the end of the period. As of August 31, 2009, excluding accounts receivable and the related net revenue for Apollo Global, our days sales outstanding was 32 days as compared to 29 days as of August 31, 2008. The increase in days sales outstanding is due to our accounts receivable balance increasing at a greater rate than revenue. The increase was due to both temporary as well as structural changes to our operations. Temporary items include the timing of the billing cycle relative to year end and a more pronounced seasonal increase due to the University of Phoenix annual student financial aid system enhancements and upgrades, which temporarily postpones the processing of student financial aid requests resulting in a delay of the corresponding disbursements of Title IV loan proceeds. Additionally, University of Phoenix has implemented certain operational changes that cause an increase in our accounts receivable balance and days sales outstanding calculation. 74 Table of Contents Investing Activities The following table provides a summary of our investing cash flows during the respective periods: Year Ended August 31, ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired $ (523.8 ) $ (93.8 ) $ (15.1 ) Capital expenditures (127.3 ) (104.9 ) (104.6 ) Increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents (48.2 ) (87.7 ) (58.2 ) Other 8.0 25.6 46.0 Net cash used in investing activities $ (691.3 ) $ (260.8 ) $ (131.9 ) Fiscal year 2009 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $523.8 million for Apollo Globals acquisitions (including $510.1 related to the acquisition of BPP), $127.3 million for capital expenditures, and a $48.2 million increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents. This was partially offset by $8.0 million provided by net maturities of marketable securities. Fiscal year 2008 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $104.9 million for capital expenditures (including $12.4 million for our corporate headquarters), $93.8 million for acquisitions, including Aptimus and Apollo Globals purchases of UNIACC and ULA, and an $87.7 million increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents. This was partially offset by $25.5 million provided by net maturities of marketable securities. Fiscal year 2007 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $104.6 million used for capital expenditures (including $43.4 million for our corporate headquarters), a $58.2 million increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents, and $15.1 million used for the purchase of Insight Schools. This was partially offset by $46.0 million provided by net maturities of marketable securities. Financing Activities The following table provides a summary of our financing cash flows during the respective periods: Year Ended August 31, ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Proceeds (payments) related to borrowings, net $ 475.8 $ (0.4 ) $ Issuance of Apollo Group Class A common stock 117.1 103.0 7.7 Minority interest contributions 59.0 12.1 Purchase of Apollo Group Class A common stock (452.5 ) (454.4 ) (437.7 ) Other 18.5 18.7 4.0 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 217.9 $ (321.0 ) $ (426.0 ) Fiscal year 2009 Cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $475.8 million of net proceeds from borrowings, $117.1 million of cash received for stock option exercises and $59.0 million related to minority interest contributions. This was partially offset by $452.5 million of cash used for the repurchase of 7.2 million shares of our Class A common stock. Fiscal year 2008 Cash used for financing activities primarily consisted of $454.4 million of cash used for the repurchase of 9.8 million shares of our Class A common stock. This was partially offset by $103.0 million of cash received for stock option exercises. Fiscal year 2007 Cash used for financing activities primarily consisted of $437.7 million of cash used for the repurchase of 7.2 million shares of our Class A common stock. 75 Table of Contents Shares of Apollo Group Class A common stock newly authorized for repurchase, repurchased and reissued, and the related total cost, for the last three fiscal years are as follows: Total Number Maximum Value of of Shares Average Price Paid Shares Available Repurchased Cost per Share for Repurchase (numbers in millions, except per share data) Treasury stock as of August 31, 2006 15.5 $ 1,054.0 $ 68.23 $ 136.1 New authorizations 363.9 Shares repurchased under repurchase program 7.2 437.7 61.08 (437.7 ) Shares reissued (0.5 ) (30.3 ) 67.31 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2007 22.2 $ 1,461.4 $ 65.94 $ 62.3 New authorizations 892.1 Shares repurchased under repurchase program 9.8 454.4 46.25 (454.4 ) Shares reissued (2.5 ) (158.5 ) 64.65 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2008 29.5 $ 1,757.3 $ 59.50 $ 500.0 New authorizations 444.4 Shares repurchased under repurchase program 7.2 444.4 61.62 (444.4 ) Other share repurchases(1) 0.1 8.1 68.11 Shares reissued (3.1 ) (187.2 ) 59.96 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2009 33.7 $ 2,022.6 $ 59.94 $ 500.0 (1) In connection with the release of vested shares of restricted stock, we repurchased approximately 119,000 shares for $8.1 million related to tax withholding requirements on these restricted stock units during the fiscal year 2009. We did not have any such repurchases during fiscal years 2008 and 2007. These repurchase transactions do not fall under the repurchase program described below, and therefore do not reduce the amount that is available for repurchase under that program. Our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase outstanding shares of Apollo Group Class A common stock, from time to time, depending on market conditions and other considerations. There is no expiration date on the repurchase authorizations and repurchases occur at our discretion. Repurchases may be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, pursuant to the applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules, and may include repurchases pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b5 1 nondiscretionary trading programs. The amount and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be made as market and business conditions warrant. Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The following table lists our contractual cash obligations as of August 31, 2009: Payments Due by Fiscal Year Contractual Obligations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total ($ in millions) Debt(1) $ 461.4 $ 15.7 $ 106.4 $ 6.4 $ 589.9 Operating lease obligations 147.3 264.2 167.8 177.6 756.9 Capital lease obligations(2) 2.7 10.0 22.0 113.7 148.4 Stadium naming rights(3) 6.3 13.2 14.1 101.6 135.2 Uncertain tax positions(4) 85.7 11.9 97.6 Other obligations(5) 5.4 1.7 1.7 8.8 Total $ 708.8 $ 303.1 $ 312.0 $ 412.9 $ 1,736.8 76 Table of Contents (1) Amounts include expected future interest payments. Please refer to Note 11, Debt, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our Debt. (2) The total future minimum lease obligation associated with capital leases includes lease payments for a lease agreement executed in fiscal year 2009 for a building to be constructed and for which we do not have the right to control the use of the property under the lease at August 31, 2009. The future minimum lease payments associated with this lease are $139.5 million, which includes $36.2 million of imputed interest. (3) Amounts consist of an agreement for 20 year naming rights to the Glendale, Arizona Sports Complex. (4) Amounts consist of unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, that are included in other current and other long term liabilities in our August 31, 2009 Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled. (5) Amount consists of an earn out obligation associated with Apollo Globals acquisition of UNIACC and undiscounted deferred compensation payments due to Dr. John G. Sperling, our founder. We have no other material commercial commitments not included in the above table. Federal and Private Student Loans See the discussion of federal and private student loans in Item 1, Business, Financial Aid Programs Domestic Postsecondary. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Impact of Inflation Inflation has not had a significant impact on our historical operations. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk We use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency. The functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are generally the local currencies. Accordingly, our foreign currency exchange risk is related to the following exposure areas: Adjustments resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of the foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates. These translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss); Earnings volatility from the translation of income and expense items of the foreign subsidiaries using an average monthly exchange rate for the respective periods; and Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency exchange rate changes related to intercompany receivables and payables that are not of a long term investment nature, as well as gains and losses from foreign currency transactions. These items are recorded in Other, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. In fiscal year 2009, we recorded $11.7 million in foreign currency translation losses, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income. These losses are the result of general strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies during fiscal year 2009. As we expand our international operations, we will conduct more transactions in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Additionally, we expect the volume of transactions in the various foreign currencies will continue to increase, thus increasing our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The following table 77 Table of Contents outlines our net asset exposure by foreign currency (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities and excluding intercompany balances) denominated in U.S. dollars as of August 31: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 British Pound Sterling $ 405.6 $ Mexican Peso 29.2 25.3 Chilean Peso 18.4 22.3 Other foreign currencies 2.9 2.7 Apollo has not historically used derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency price changes. In connection with the BPP acquisition, Apollo Global entered into a derivative arrangement to hedge against the variability of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and British Pound. The derivative arrangement, a call option on the British Pound, limited Apollo Globals foreign currency exposure on the notional value of 235 million (or $390.1 million) at a 1.66 U.S. Dollar to British Pound exchange rate. This arrangement expired on July 30, 2009. To enter into this option, Apollo Global paid a non refundable option premium of $6.9 million, which was recorded within other, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Interest Rate Risk Interest Income As of August 31, 2009, we held $1,420.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities. During fiscal year 2009, we earned interest income of $12.6 million. When the Federal Reserve Bank lowers the Federal Funds Rate, it generally results in a reduction in our interest rates. The reduction of the Federal Funds Rate in December 2008 to the range of 0.0% 0.25% has lowered our interest rate yields in fiscal year 2009. Based on the current Federal Funds Rate, we do not believe any further reduction would have a material impact on us. Interest Expense We have exposure to changing interest rates primarily associated with our variable rate debt. At August 31, 2009, we had a total outstanding debt balance of $589.1 million. The following table presents the weighted average interest rates for our scheduled maturities by fiscal year of principal for our outstanding debt at August 31, 2009: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total ($ in millions, except percentages) Fixed rate debt $ 4.7 $ 3.3 $ 2.4 $ 2.3 $ 1.4 $ 7.2 $ 21.3 Average interest rate 5.1 % Variable rate debt $ 456.7 $ $ 8.5 $ 102.6 $ $ $ 567.8 Average interest rate 1.2 % For the purpose of sensitivity, based on our outstanding variable rate debt as of August 31, 2009, including the $393 million repaid in September 2009, an increase of 100 basis points in our weighted average interest rate would increase interest expense by approximately $5.7 million on an annual basis. Substantially all of our debt is variable interest rate and the carrying amount approximates fair value. Please refer to Note 9, Fair Value Measurements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion of our valuation methods. We have not historically entered into financial arrangements to hedge our interest rate exposure. However, in connection with the BPP acquisition, we acquired an interest rate swap with a notional amount of 30.0 million ($48.9 million) used to minimize the interest rate exposure on a portion of BPPs variable rate debt. The interest rate swap is used to fix the variable interest rate on the associated debt. As of August 31, 78 Table of Contents 2009, the fair value of the swap is a liability of $3.5 million and is included in other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Auction Rate Securities Risk At August 31, 2009, for our auction rate securities totaling $19.6 million, we used a discounted cash flow model to determine fair value which reflects illiquidity of the market at it encompassed significant unobservable inputs. Our auction rate securities are insignificant to our total assets that require fair value measurements and thus, the use and possible changes in the use of these unobservable inputs would not have a material impact on our liquidity and capital resources. Please refer to Note 4, Marketable Securities, and Note 9, Fair Value Measurements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. We will continue to monitor our investment portfolio. We will also continue to evaluate any changes in the market value of the failed auction rate securities that have not been liquidated and depending upon existing market conditions, we may be required to record other than temporary impairment charges in the future. 79 
 
