Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MDA) is intended to help investors understand our results of operations, financial condition and present business environment. The MDA is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The MDA is organized as follows: Overview: From managements point of view, we discuss the following: An overview of our business and the sectors of the education industry in which we operate; Key trends, developments and challenges; and Significant events from the current period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: A discussion of our accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations: An analysis of our results of operations as reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position: An analysis of cash flows and contractual obligations and other commercial commitments. Overview Apollo is one of the worlds largest private education providers and has been a provider of education services for more than 35 years. We offer innovative and distinctive educational programs and services at the undergraduate, masters and doctoral levels at our various campuses and learning centers, and online throughout the world. Our principal wholly owned subsidiaries and subsidiaries that we control include the following: The University of Phoenix, Inc. (University of Phoenix), Apollo Global, Inc. (Apollo Global): BPP Holdings, plc (BPP), Western International University, Inc. (Western International University), Universidad de Artes, Ciencias y Comunicacin (UNIACC), Universidad Latinoamericana (ULA), Institute for Professional Development (IPD), The College for Financial Planning Institutes Corporation (CFFP), and Meritus University, Inc. (Meritus). Substantially all of our net revenue is composed of tuition and fees for educational services. In fiscal year 2010, University of Phoenix accounted for approximately 91% of our total consolidated net revenue. University of Phoenix generated 88% of its cash basis revenue for eligible tuition and fees during fiscal year 2010 from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, as calculated under the 90/10 Rule, excluding the benefit from the permitted temporary exclusion of revenue associated with the recently increased annual student loan limits. We believe that a critical element of generating successful long term growth and attractive returns for our stakeholders is to provide high quality educational products and services for our students in order for them to maximize the benefits of their educational experience. Accordingly, we are intensely focused on student success and better identifying and enrolling students who have a reasonable chance to succeed in our programs. We are continuously enhancing and expanding our current service offerings and investing in academic quality. We have developed customized systems for academic quality management, faculty recruitment and training, student tracking, and marketing to help us more effectively manage toward this objective. We believe we utilize one of the most comprehensive postsecondary learning assessment programs 65 Table of Contents in the U.S. We seek to improve student retention by enhancing student services, promoting instructional innovation and improving academic support. All of these efforts are designed to help our students stay in school and succeed. Key Trends, Developments and Challenges The following developments and trends present opportunities, challenges and risks as we work toward our goal of providing attractive returns for all of our stakeholders: Initiative to Enhance Student Experience and Outcomes. We are intensely focused on improving student outcomes. In furtherance of this focus, in fiscal year 2010 we began to implement a number of important changes and initiatives to transition our business to more effectively support our students and improve their educational outcomes, which efforts will continue into fiscal year 2011. These initiatives include the following: Upgrading our learning and data platforms; Adopting new tools to better support students education financing decisions, such as our Responsible Borrowing Calculator, which is designed to help students calculate the amount of student borrowing necessary to achieve their educational objectives and to motivate them to not incur unnecessary student loan debt; Transitioning our marketing approaches to more effectively identify students who have the ability to succeed in our educational programs, including reduced emphasis on the utilization of third parties for lead generation; Requiring all students who enroll in University of Phoenix with fewer than 24 credits to first attend a free, three week University Orientation program which is designed to help inexperienced prospective students understand the rigors of higher education prior to enrollment. After piloting the program for the past year, we plan to implement this policy university wide in November 2010; and Better aligning our enrollment, admissions and other employees to our students success by redefining roles and responsibilities, resetting individual objectives and measures and implementing new compensation structures, including eliminating all enrollment factors in our admissions personnel compensation structure effective September 1, 2010. We believe that the changes in our marketing approaches and the University Orientation pilot program implemented during fiscal year 2010 contributed to the 9.8% reduction in University of Phoenix New Degreed Enrollment in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. We expect that the continuing changes in our marketing approaches and the implementation of the additional initiatives described above will significantly reduce fiscal year 2011 University of Phoenix New Degreed Enrollment and will adversely impact our net revenue, operating income and cash flow. However, we believe that these efforts are in the best interests of our students and, over the long term, will improve student persistence and completion rates, reduce bad debt expense, reduce the risks to our business associated with our regulatory environment, and position us for more stable long term growth in the future. Regulatory Environment Compliance. Our domestic business is highly regulated by the U.S. Department of Education, the applicable academic accreditation agencies and state education regulatory authorities. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is a significant part of our administrative effort. In August 2008, the U.S. Congress reauthorized the Higher Education Act through September 2013 by enacting the Higher Education Opportunity Act, which resulted in a large number of new and modified requirements that ultimately will be implemented through the Department rulemaking. Final regulations for implementing the Higher Education Opportunity Act provisions were published in October 2009 with an effective date of July 1, 2010. We have developed and implemented the necessary procedural and substantive changes to enable us to comply with the provisions. 66 Table of Contents New Rulemaking Initiative. In November 2009, the Department convened two new negotiated rulemaking teams related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. The team addressing program integrity issues, which included representatives of the various higher education constituencies, was unable to reach consensus on all of the rules addressed by that team. Accordingly, under the negotiated rulemaking protocol, the Department was free to propose rules without regard to the tentative agreement reached regarding certain of the rules. The proposed program integrity rulemaking addresses numerous topics. The most significant proposals for our business are the following: Modification of the standards relating to the payment of incentive compensation to employees involved in student recruitment and enrollment; Implementation of standards for state authorization of proprietary institutions of higher education; and Adoption of a definition of gainful employment for purposes of the requirement of Title IV student financial aid that a program of study prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. On June 18, 2010, the Department issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) in respect of the program integrity issues, other than the metrics for determining compliance with the gainful employment requirement. On July 26, 2010, the Department published a separate NPRM in respect of the gainful employment metrics. The Department has stated that its goal is to publish final rules by November 1, 2010, excluding significant sections related to gainful employment which the Department expects to publish in early 2011. The final rules, including some reporting and disclosure rules related to gainful employment, are expected to be effective July 1, 2011. We cannot predict the form of the rules that ultimately may be adopted by the Department following public comment. Compliance with these rules, some of which could be effective as early as July 1, 2011, could reduce our enrollment, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Pending rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could result in regulatory changes that materially and adversely affect our business, for further discussion of the Departments proposals, which discussion is incorporated by this reference. U.S. Congressional Hearings. In recent months, there has been increased focus by the U.S. Congress on the role that proprietary educational institutions play in higher education. On June 24, 2010, the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP Committee) held the first in a series of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector. The August 4, 2010 hearing included the presentation of results from a Government Accountability Office (GAO) review of various aspects of the proprietary sector, including recruitment practices, educational quality, student outcomes, the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in federal student aid programs and the degree to which proprietary institutions revenue is composed of Title IV and other federal funding sources. Following the August 4, 2010 hearing, Sen. Tom Harkin, the Chairman of the HELP Committee, requested a broad range of detailed information from 30 proprietary institutions, including Apollo Group. We have been and intend to continue being responsive to the requests of the HELP Committee. Sen. Harkin has stated that another in this series of hearings will be held in December 2010. See Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our student population and increase our costs of operation for further discussion regarding the HELP Committee hearings, which discussion is incorporated by this reference. 90/10 Rule. One requirement of the Higher Education Act, commonly referred to as the 90/10 Rule, applies to proprietary institutions such as University of Phoenix and Western International 67 Table of Contents University. Under this rule, a proprietary institution will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs if for any two consecutive fiscal years it derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue, as defined in the rule, from Title IV programs. An institution that exceeds this limit for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by the U.S. Department of Education in the exercise of its broad discretion. While the Department has broad discretion to impose additional sanctions on such an institution, there is only limited precedent available to predict what those sanctions might be, particularly in the current regulatory environment. The Department could specify any additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institutions continued participation in Title IV programs. These conditions may include, among other things, restrictions on the total amount of Title IV program funds that may be distributed to students attending the institution; restrictions on programmatic and geographic expansion; requirements to obtain and post letters of credit; additional reporting requirements to include additional interim financial reporting; or any other conditions imposed by the Department. Should an institution be subject to a provisional certification at the time that its current program participation agreement expired, the effect on recertification of the institution or continued eligibility in Title IV programs pending recertification is uncertain. In recent years, the 90/10 Rule percentages for University of Phoenix have trended closer to 90% and for fiscal year 2010, the percentage for University of Phoenix was 88%, excluding the benefit from the permitted temporary exclusion of revenue associated with the recently increased annual student loan limits. This temporary relief expires in July 2011, and including this relief the percentage for University of Phoenix was 85%. Based on currently available information, we expect that the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix, net of the temporary relief, will approach 90% for fiscal year 2011. We have implemented various measures intended to reduce the percentage of University of Phoenixs cash basis revenue attributable to Title IV funds, including emphasizing employer paid and other direct pay education programs, encouraging students to carefully evaluate the amount of necessary Title IV borrowing, and continued focus on professional development and continuing education programs. Although we believe these measures will favorably impact the 90/10 Rule calculation, they have had only limited impact to date and there is no assurance that they will be adequate to prevent the 90/10 Rule calculation from exceeding 90% in the future. We are considering other measures to favorably impact the 90/10 Rule calculation for University of Phoenix, including tuition price increases; however, we have substantially no control over the amount of Title IV student loans and grants sought by or awarded to our students. Based on currently available information, we do not expect the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix, net of the temporary relief, to exceed 90% for fiscal year 2011. However, we believe that, absent a change in recent trends or the implementation of additional effective measures to reduce the percentage, the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix is likely to exceed 90% in fiscal year 2012 due to the expiration of the temporary relief in July 2011. Our efforts to reduce the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix, especially if the percentage exceeds 90% for a fiscal year, may involve taking measures which reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, or both, in each case perhaps significantly. If the 90/10 Rule is not changed to provide relief for proprietary institutions, we may be required to make structural changes to our business in order to remain in compliance, which changes may materially alter the manner in which we conduct our business and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, these required changes could make more difficult our ability to comply with other important regulatory requirements, such as the cohort default rate regulations discussed below under Student Loan Cohort Default Rates and Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate An increase in student loan default rates could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would materially and adversely affect our business, as well as the proposed gainful employment regulations discussed above under New Rulemaking Initiative and Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Pending rulemaking by the 68 Table of Contents U.S. Department of Education could result in regulatory changes that materially and adversely affect our business. See Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Our schools and programs would lose their eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs is too high, in which event we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted, for further discussion of the 90/10 Rule, which discussion is incorporated by this reference. Student Loan Cohort Default Rates. To remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an educational institutions student loan cohort default rates must remain below certain specified levels. An educational institution will lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its student loan cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% for three consecutive years or 40% for any given year. If our student loan default rates approach these limits, we may be required to increase efforts and resources dedicated to improving these default rates. The cohort default rate for University of Phoenix was 12.9% for the 2008 federal fiscal year and has been increasing over the past several years. We expect this upward trend to intensify due to the current challenging economic climate and the continuing effect of the historical growth in our associates degree student population. Consistent with this, the available preliminary data for the University of Phoenix 2009 cohort reflect a substantially higher default rate than the 2008 cohort, although we do not expect the rate to exceed 25%. See Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate An increase in our student loan default rates could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would materially and adversely affect our business, for further discussion of the University of Phoenix cohort default rates, which discussion is incorporated by this reference. Higher Learning Commission (HLC). In August 2010, University of Phoenix received a letter from HLC requiring University of Phoenix to provide certain information and evidence of compliance with HLC accreditation standards. The letter related to the August 2010 report published by the GAO of its undercover investigation into the enrollment and recruiting practices of a number of proprietary institutions of higher education, including University of Phoenix. We submitted the response to HLC on September 10, 2010 and subsequently received a request for additional information. We have been informed that our response will be evaluated by a special committee in early 2011, and that the committee will make recommendations, if any, to the HLC board. If, after review, HLC determines that our response is unsatisfactory, HLC has informed us that it may impose additional unspecified monitoring or sanctions. In addition, HLC has recently imposed additional requirements on University of Phoenix with respect to approval of new or relocated campuses and additional locations. These requirements may lengthen or make more challenging the approval process for these sites. See Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the U.S. Department of Education, we could lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs, which would materially and adversely affect our business, for further discussion of this HLC review, which discussion is incorporated by this reference. Securities and Exchange Commission Informal Inquiry. During October 2009, we received notification from the Enforcement Division of the Securities and Exchange Commission indicating that they had commenced an informal inquiry into our revenue recognition practices. Based on the information and documents that the Securities and Exchange Commission has requested from us and or our auditors, which relate to our revenue recognition practices and other matters, including our policies and practices relating to student refunds, the return of Title IV funds to lenders and bad debt reserves, the eventual scope, duration and outcome of the inquiry cannot be predicted at this time. We are cooperating fully with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the inquiry. Economic Downturn. The U.S. and much of the world economy have been in the midst of an economic downturn with uncertain prospects for recovery. These conditions have contributed to a 69 Table of Contents portion of our recent enrollment growth as an increased number of working learners seek to advance their education to improve their job security or reemployment prospects. One of our challenges is to adequately and effectively service our increased student population without over building our infrastructure and delivery platform in a manner that might result in excess capacity when the portion of our growth related to the economic downturn subsides. In contrast to this positive impact, the economic downturn has adversely affected our bad debt expense and allowance for doubtful accounts and reduced the availability of state funded student financial aid as many states face revenue shortfalls. We believe that the availability of state funded student financial aid will continue to decline, which may adversely impact our enrollment and, to the extent that Title IV funds replace these state funding sources for our students, may adversely impact our 90/10 Rule calculation. Opportunities to Expand into New Markets. We believe that there is a growing demand for high quality education outside the U.S. and that we have capabilities and expertise that can be useful in providing these services beyond our current reach. We believe we can deploy our key capabilities in student services, technology and marketing to expand into new markets to further our mission of providing high quality, accessible education. We intend to actively pursue quality opportunities to acquire and or partner with existing institutions of higher learning where we believe we can achieve long term attractive growth and value creation. Integration. We continue our efforts to integrate our acquired educational institutions and seek to use our experience to enhance the quality, delivery and student outcomes of their respective education programs. As with all acquisitions, there are significant risks, uncertainties and challenges inherent with integration. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded impairment charges relating to acquired entities as follows: We acquired Insight Schools in fiscal year 2007. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we initiated a formal plan to sell Insight Schools as we determined that the business was no longer consistent with our long term strategic objectives. We recorded a $9.4 million impairment charge for Insight Schools goodwill in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, which is included in discontinued operations. We acquired ULA in fiscal year 2008 and recorded an $8.7 million impairment charge for ULAs goodwill in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. We acquired BPP in fiscal year 2009 and recorded impairment charges of $156.3 million and $19.6 million for BPPs goodwill and other intangibles, respectively, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. For a more detailed discussion of our business, industry and risks, refer to Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors. Fiscal Year 2010 Events In addition to the items mentioned above, we experienced the following significant events during the fiscal year 2010: 1. Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment Growth. We achieved 13.1% growth in average University of Phoenix Degreed Enrollment in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. University of Phoenix aggregate New Degreed Enrollment increased 4.5% in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, although New Degreed Enrollment for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 decreased 9.8% compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. Refer to Results of Operations in MDA for further discussion. 2. Net Revenue Growth. Our net revenue increased 24.6% in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 with University of Phoenixs net revenue increasing 19.4% primarily from its Degreed Enrollment growth and selective tuition increases. Apollo Globals acquisition of BPP in the 70 Table of Contents fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 also contributed 6.0 percentage points of the overall increase in consolidated net revenue in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. 3. University of Phoenix Program Participation Agreement. The Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, specifies the manner in which the U.S. Department of Education reviews institutions for eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs. Every educational institution involved in Title IV programs must be certified to participate and is required to periodically renew this certification. University of Phoenix was recertified in November 2009 and entered into a new Title IV Program Participation Agreement which expires on December 31, 2012. 4. Settlement of Internal Revenue Service Dispute Related to Stock Option Compensation. On November 25, 2009, we executed a Closing Agreement with the Internal Revenue Service Office of Appeals to settle a dispute related to certain stock option compensation deducted on our U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2003 through 2005. Refer to Note 14, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. 5. Addition of Director. On December 10, 2009, the holders of our Class B common stock elected Samuel A. DiPiazza, Jr. to our Board of Directors at a special meeting convened for such purpose. 6. Settlement of Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit. On December 14, 2009, we entered into an agreement, effective December 11, 2009, to resolve the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit. Under the terms of the agreement, in December 2009, we paid $67.5 million to the United States and, under a separate agreement, we paid $11.0 million in attorneys fees to the relators in this qui tam action, as required by the False Claims Act. The agreement makes clear that we do not acknowledge, admit or concede any liability, wrongdoing, noncompliance or violation as a result of the settlement. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. 7. University of Phoenix Program Review. On December 31, 2009, University of Phoenix received the U.S. Department of Educations Program Review Report, which was a preliminary report of the Departments findings. We responded to the preliminary report in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. The Department issued its Final Program Review Determination letter on June 16, 2010, which confirmed we had completed the corrective actions and satisfied the obligations arising from the review. We posted a $126 million letter of credit in favor of the Department in connection with this review. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. 8. Securities Class Action Lawsuit. On June 23, 2010, the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the District Courts prior ruling in our favor in the securities class action lawsuit, In re Apollo Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case No. CV04 2147 PHX JAT, and ordered the trial court to enter judgment against us in accordance with the prior jury verdict. The actual amount of damages payable will not be known until all court proceedings have been completed and eligible members of the class have presented the necessary information and documents to receive payment of the award. We have estimated for financial reporting purposes, using statistically valid models and a 60% confidence interval, that the damages could range from $127.2 million to $228.0 million, which includes our estimates of (a) damages payable to the plaintiff class; (b) the amount we may be required to reimburse our insurance carriers for amounts advanced for defense costs; and (c) future defense costs. Accordingly, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, we recorded a charge for estimated damages in the amount of $132.6 million, which, together with the existing reserve of $44.5 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, represents the mid point of the estimated range of damages payable to the plaintiffs, plus the other estimated costs and expenses. We elected to record an amount based on the mid point of the range of damages payable to the plaintiff class because under statistically valid modeling techniques the mid point of the range is in fact a more likely estimate 71 Table of Contents than other points in the range, and the point at which there is an equal probability that the ultimate loss could be toward the lower end or the higher end of the range. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we recorded a $0.9 million charge for incremental post judgment interest. On August 23, 2010, we filed a motion to stay the mandate while we seek review by the U.S. Supreme Court, which was granted. Our petition for certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court is due on or before November 15, 2010. We believe we have adequate liquidity to fund the amount of any required bond, or if necessary, the satisfaction of the judgment. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. 9. Western International University. In April 2010, we contributed all of the common stock of Western International University, which was previously our wholly owned subsidiary, to Apollo Global. Refer to Note 4, Acquisitions, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Additionally, Western International University was recertified by the U.S. Department of Education in May 2010 and entered into a new Title IV Program Participation Agreement which expires on September 30, 2014. 10. Higher Education at a Crossroads. In August 2010, we released a report entitled, Higher Education at a Crossroads, which examined the significant challenges facing Americas higher education system and the fundamental transformations that must occur to meet President Obamas mandate that the U.S. produce the highest percentage of college graduates of any developed nation by 2020. The report includes an analysis of the vital role proprietary colleges and universities play in meeting the Presidents goals and reaffirms University of Phoenixs commitment to advancing quality education, innovations in learning, and industry leading student protections. The report presents the ways we believe our institutions are uniquely positioned to increase access to higher education for all Americans at a significantly lower cost to society and without compromising quality. 11. Appointment of Sean B.W. Martin. On September 24, 2010, we announced the appointment of Sean B.W. Martin as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Martin succeeds P. Robert Moya, who earlier this year announced his retirement as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. As previously announced, Mr. Moya will serve as Executive Vice President, Special Projects, until October 31, 2010; he will then serve as a Senior Advisor until August 31, 2011. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our critical accounting policies involve a higher degree of judgments, estimates and complexity, and are as follows: Revenue Recognition Our educational programs, primarily composed of University of Phoenix programs, are designed to range in length from one day seminars to degree programs lasting up to four years. Students in University of Phoenix degree programs generally enroll in a program of study encompassing a series of five to nine week courses taken consecutively over the length of the program. Generally, students are billed on a course by course basis when the student first attends a session, resulting in the recording of a receivable from the student and deferred revenue in the amount of the billing. University of Phoenix students generally fund their education through loans and or grants under various Title IV programs, tuition assistance from their employers, or personal funds. 72 Table of Contents Net revenue consists principally of tuition and fees associated with different educational programs as well as related educational resources such as access to online materials, books, and study texts. Net revenue is shown net of discounts. Tuition benefits for our employees and their eligible dependants are included in net revenue and instructional costs and services. Total employee tuition benefits were $100.3 million, $90.5 million and $77.9 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table presents the components of our net revenue, and each component as a percentage of total net revenue, for the fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008: Year Ended August 31, ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Tuition and educational services revenue $ 4,757.9 97 % $ 3,815.0 96 % $ 2,988.6 96 % Educational materials revenue 324.9 6 % 226.4 6 % 184.4 6 % Services revenue 84.2 2 % 83.2 2 % 77.7 2 % Other revenue 22.4 28.3 1 % 43.9 1 % Gross Revenue 5,189.4 105 % 4,152.9 105 % 3,294.6 105 % Less: Discounts (263.6 ) (5 )% (199.3 ) (5 )% (161.2 ) (5 )% Net revenue $ 4,925.8 100 % $ 3,953.6 100 % $ 3,133.4 100 % Tuition and educational services revenue encompasses both online and classroom based learning. For our University of Phoenix operations, tuition revenue is recognized pro rata over the period of instruction as services are delivered to students. BPP recognizes tuition revenue as services are provided over the course of the program, which varies depending on the program structure. For our remaining Apollo Global operations, tuition revenue is generally recognized over the length of the course and or program as applicable. Educational materials revenue relates to online course materials delivered to students over the period of instruction. Revenue associated with these materials is recognized pro rata over the period of the related course to correspond with delivery of the materials to students. Educational materials also includes the sale of various books, study texts, course notes, and CDs for which we recognize revenue when the materials have been delivered to and accepted by students or other customers. Services revenue consists principally of the contractual share of tuition revenue from students enrolled in IPD programs at private colleges and universities (Client Institutions). IPD provides program development, administration and management consulting services to Client Institutions to establish or expand their programs for working learners. These services typically include degree program design, curriculum development, market research, student recruitment, accounting, and administrative services. IPD typically is paid a portion of the tuition revenue generated from these programs. IPDs contracts with its Client Institutions generally range in length from five to ten years, with provisions for renewal. The portion of service revenue to which we are entitled under the terms of the contracts is recognized as the services are provided. Other revenue consists of the fees students pay when submitting an enrollment application, which, along with the related application costs associated with processing the applications, are deferred and recognized over the average length of time a student remains enrolled in a program of study. Other revenue also includes non tuition generating revenues, such as renting classroom space and other student support services. Revenue from these sources is recognized as the services are provided. Discounts reflect reductions in tuition or other revenue including military, corporate, and other employer discounts, along with institutional scholarships, grants and promotions. Effective March 1, 2008, University of Phoenix changed its refund policy whereby students who attend 60% or less of a course are eligible for a refund for the portion of the course they did not attend. Under the prior refund policy, if a student dropped or withdrew after attending one class of a course, University of Phoenix earned 25% of the tuition for the course, and if they dropped or withdrew after attending two classes 73 Table of Contents of a course, University of Phoenix earned 100% of the tuition for the course. Refunds are recorded as a reduction in deferred revenue during the period that a student drops or withdraws from a class. This refund policy applies to students in most, but not all states, as some states require different policies. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we began presenting Insight Schools operating results as discontinued operations. Accordingly, Insight Schools net revenue is included in loss from discontinued operations, net of tax in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Insight Schools generates the majority of its tuition and educational services revenue through long term contracts with school districts or not for profit organizations. The term for these contracts ranges from five to ten years with provisions for renewal thereafter. We recognize revenue under these contracts over the period during which educational services are provided to students, which generally commences in August or September and ends in May or June. Generally, net revenue varies from period to period based on several factors, including the aggregate number of students attending classes, the number of classes held during the period, the tuition price per credit and seasonality. Sales tax collected from students is excluded from net revenue. Collected but unremitted sales tax is included as a liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and is not material to our consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We reduce accounts receivable by an allowance for amounts that we expect to become uncollectible in the future. Estimates are used in determining the allowance for doubtful accounts and are based on historical collection experience and current trends. In determining these amounts, we consider and evaluate the historical write offs of our receivables. We monitor our collections and write off experience to assess whether adjustments are necessary. When a student with Title IV loans withdraws, Title IV rules determine if we are required to return a portion of Title IV funds to the lenders. We are then entitled to collect these funds from the students, but collection rates for these types of receivables is significantly lower than our collection rates for receivables for students who remain in our educational programs. We routinely evaluate our estimation methodology for adequacy and modify it as necessary. In doing so, our objective is to cause our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the amount of receivables that will become uncollectible by considering our most recent collections experience, changes in trends and other relevant facts. In doing so, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts reflects the most recent collections experience and is responsive to changes in trends. Our accounts receivable are written off once the account is deemed to be uncollectible. This typically occurs once we have exhausted all efforts to collect the account, which include collection attempts by our employees and outside collection agencies. We recorded bad debt expense of $282.6 million, $152.5 million and $104.2 million during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our allowance for doubtful accounts was $192.9 million and $110.4 million as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For the purpose of sensitivity, a one percent change in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of gross student receivables as of August 31, 2010 would have resulted in a pre tax change in income of $4.2 million. Additionally, if our bad debt expense were to change by one percent of total net revenue for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010, we would have recorded a pre tax change in income of approximately $49.3 million. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value assigned to the underlying assets acquired and assumed liabilities. At the time of an acquisition, we allocate the goodwill and related assets and liabilities to our respective reporting units. We identify our reporting units by assessing whether the components of our operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of those components. 74 Table of Contents Indefinite lived intangible assets are recorded at fair market value on their acquisition date and primarily include trademarks and foreign regulatory accreditations and designations as a result of the BPP, UNIACC and ULA acquisitions. We assign indefinite lives to acquired trademarks, accreditations and designations that we believe have the continued ability to generate cash flows indefinitely; have no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors limiting the useful life of the respective intangible asset; and when we intend to renew the respective trademark, accreditation or designation and renewal can be accomplished at little cost. We assess goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the respective reporting unit below its carrying amount. We test for goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level by applying a two step test. In the first step, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value of its net assets. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, we perform a second step which involves using a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the goodwill. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount of the goodwill. The annual impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We perform our annual indefinite lived intangible asset impairment tests on the same dates that we perform our annual goodwill impairment tests for the respective reporting units. Our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets by reportable segment are summarized in the table below: Annual Indefinite lived Impairment Goodwill as of August 31, Intangibles as of August 31, ($ in thousands) Test Date 2010 2009 2010 2009 University of Phoenix May 31 $ 37,018 $ 37,018 $ $ Apollo Global BPP(3) July 1 241,204 421,836 114,330 138,602 Apollo Global Other UNIACC May 31 12,132 11,197 4,919 4,539 ULA(3) May 31 14,914 22,674 2,395 2,349 Western International University(1) May 31 1,581 1,581 Other Schools CFFP August 31 15,310 15,310 Insight Schools(2),(3) May 31 3,342 12,742 (1) As a result of contributing all of the common stock of Western International University to Apollo Global during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, we are presenting Western International University in the Apollo Global Other reportable segment for all periods presented. Refer to Note 4, Acquisitions, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. (2) As of August 31, 2010, Insight Schools goodwill balance is included in assets held for sale in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. See further discussion below. (3) We recorded goodwill impairment charges for BPP, ULA and Insight Schools and impairment charges for BPPs intangible assets during fiscal year 2010. See further discussion below. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis, including identification of our reporting units, 75 Table of Contents identification and allocation of assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units and determination of fair value of our reporting units. Our established goodwill testing process includes the use of industry accepted valuation methods, involvement of various levels of management in different operating functions to review and approve certain criteria and assumptions and, in certain instances, engaging third party valuation specialists to assist with our analysis. To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we primarily rely on an income based approach using the discounted cash flow valuation method. For our reporting units valued using this method, we generally project cash flows, as well as a terminal value, by calculating cash flow scenarios, applying a reasonable weighting to these scenarios and discounting such cash flows by a risk adjusted rate of return. When appropriate, we may also incorporate the use of a market based approach in combination with the discounted cash flow analysis. Generally, the market based approach incorporates information from comparable transactions in the market and publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics of the reporting unit to develop a multiple which is then applied to the operating performance of the reporting unit to determine value. The determination of fair value of our reporting units consists primarily of using unobservable inputs under the fair value measurement standards. We believe the most critical assumptions and estimates in determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units, include, but are not limited to, the amounts and timing of expected future cash flows for each reporting unit, the probability weightings between scenarios, the discount rate applied to those cash flows, long term growth rates and selection of comparable market multiples. The assumptions used in determining our expected future cash flows consider various factors such as historical operating trends particularly in student enrollment and pricing, the political environment the reporting unit operates in, anticipated economic and regulatory conditions and planned business and operating strategies over a long term planning horizon. The discount rate used by each reporting unit is based on our assumption of a prudent investors required rate of return of assuming the risk of investing in a particular company in a specific country. Our goodwill impairment tests used discount rates ranging from 13.0% to 15.5%. The perpetual long term growth rate reflects the sustainable operating income a reporting unit could generate in a perpetual state as a function of revenue growth, inflation and future margin expectations. Our goodwill impairment tests used long term growth rates ranging from 3% to 5%. We also believe our goodwill impairment tests incorporate the use of reasonable market participant assumptions and employ the concept of highest and best use of the asset. If we determine our critical assumptions discussed above require revision or are adversely impacted a potential goodwill impairment may result in the future. To determine the fair value of our trademark intangible assets we use the relief from royalty method. This method estimates the benefit of owning the intangible assets rather than paying royalties for the right to use a comparable asset. This method incorporates the use of significant judgments in determining both the projected revenues attributable to the asset, as well as the appropriate discount rate and royalty rates applied to those revenues to determine fair value. To fair value the accreditations and designations we primarily use the cost savings method which estimates the cost savings of owning the intangible asset rather than either creating the asset or not having the asset in place to be used in current operations. This method incorporates the use of significant judgments in determining the projected profit or replacement cost attributable to the asset and the appropriate discount rate. The determination of fair value of our indefinite lived intangible assets consists primarily of using unobservable inputs under the fair value measurement standards. During fiscal year 2010, we completed our annual goodwill impairment tests for each of our reporting units and our annual indefinite lived intangible asset impairment tests, as applicable. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded goodwill impairment charges for our BPP, ULA and Insight Schools reporting units and intangible impairment charges for our BPP reporting unit, as further discussed below. As of their respective annual impairment test date, the fair value of our University of Phoenix, UNIACC, Western International University and CFFP reporting units exceeded the carrying value of their respective net assets by at least 25% resulting in no goodwill impairment. For our University of Phoenix and Western 76 Table of Contents International University reporting units we used market multiple information of comparable sized companies to determine the fair value at the respective test dates. For our UNIACC and CFFP reporting units, we used the discounted cash flow valuation method to determine the fair value at the respective test dates. Additionally, for UNIACC, we completed our annual impairment tests of its indefinite lived intangible assets and determined there was no impairment. BPP Reporting Unit On July 1, 2010, we conducted our first annual goodwill impairment test for BPP. To determine the fair value of our BPP reporting unit in our step one analysis, we used a combination of the discounted cash flow valuation method and the market based approach and applied an 80%/20% weighting factor to these valuation methods, respectively. In October 2010, BPP concluded its fall enrollment period which we believe was adversely impacted by the continued economic downturn in the U.K. Accordingly, we revised our forecast for BPP, which caused our step one annual goodwill impairment analysis to result in a lower estimated fair value for the BPP reporting unit as compared to its carrying value due to the effects of the economic downturn in the U.K. on BPPs operations and financial performance and increased uncertainty as to when these conditions will recover. Specifically, the assumptions used in our cash flow estimates assume no near term recovery in the markets in which BPP operates, modest overall long term growth in BPPs core programs and a significant increase in revenues over a long term horizon at BPPs University College. We also utilized a 13.0% discount rate and 3.0% long term growth rate in the analysis. Although our projections assume that these markets will ultimately stabilize, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for BPP if there are further deteriorations in these markets, if economic conditions in the U.K. further decline, or we are unable to achieve the growth in future enrollments at BPPs University College. Accordingly, we performed a step two analysis which required us to fair value BPPs assets and liabilities, including identifiable intangible assets, using the fair value derived from the step one analysis as the purchase price in a hypothetical acquisition of the BPP reporting unit. As discussed above, the amount of the goodwill impairment charge is derived by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill from the hypothetical purchase price allocation to its carrying value. The significant hypothetical purchase price adjustments included in the step two analysis consisted of: Adjusting the carrying value of land and buildings included in property and equipment to estimated fair value using the market approach and based on recent appraisals. Adjusting the carrying value of the trademark and accreditations and designation indefinite lived intangible assets to estimated fair value using the valuation methods discussed above. Our annual impairment tests for these indefinite lived intangible assets utilized the same revenue, margin and discount rate assumptions used in the BPP reporting unit goodwill impairment step one analysis which resulted in a lower fair value estimate for BPPs trademark. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we recorded a $17.6 million impairment charge for these indefinite lived intangible assets. Adjusting all other finite lived intangible assets to estimated fair value using a variety of methods under the income approach specifically the costs savings method, with and without method and excess earnings method, or replacement cost approach. As a result of this analysis, we determined that one of our student relationship intangible assets was not recoverable resulting in recording an impairment charge of $2.0 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. Based on our analysis, we recorded a $156.3 million impairment charge for BPPs goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. As BPPs goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes, we did not record a tax benefit associated with the goodwill impairment charge. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, BPPs goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges in the aggregate approximate $170.4 million (net of $5.5 million benefit for income taxes associated with the intangible asset impairment charges). 77 Table of Contents ULA Reporting Unit For our ULA reporting unit, we used a discounted cash flow valuation method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit at May 31, 2010. ULA continues to delay the launch of its online program due to challenges with developing and designing the technology infrastructure to support the online platform. We have considered these uncertainties in the future cash flows used in our annual goodwill impairment test which resulted in an estimated lower fair value for the ULA reporting unit. Accordingly, we performed a step two analysis which required us to fair value ULAs assets and liabilities, including identifiable intangible assets, using the fair value derived from the step one analysis as the purchase price in a hypothetical acquisition of the ULA reporting unit. As discussed above, the amount of the goodwill impairment charge is derived from comparing the implied fair value of goodwill from the hypothetical purchase price allocation to its carrying value. Based on our analysis, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, we recorded an $8.7 million impairment charge for ULAs goodwill. As ULAs goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes, we did not record a tax benefit associated with the goodwill impairment charge. Additionally, we completed our annual impairment tests for indefinite lived intangible assets at ULA and determined there was no impairment. Insight Schools Reporting Unit In the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, we began presenting Insight Schools assets and liabilities as held for sale and its operating results as discontinued operations. We recorded a $9.4 million impairment of Insight Schools goodwill during the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, which is reflected in our loss from discontinued operations. As Insight Schools goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes, we did not record a tax benefit associated with the goodwill impairment charge. We reevaluated Insight Schools goodwill at its annual May 31 test date which resulted in no additional goodwill impairment based on recent exit price information received from engaging in non binding negotiations with interested parties. Refer to Note 3, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. Finite Lived Intangible Assets Finite lived intangible assets that are acquired in business combinations are recorded at fair market value on their acquisition date and are amortized on either a straight line basis or using an accelerated method to reflect the economic useful life of the asset. The weighted average useful life of our finite lived intangible assets at August 31, 2010 is 4.6 years. At August 31, 2010 and 2009, our finite lived intangible asset balances were $28.9 million and $58.2 million, respectively. Other Long Lived Asset Impairments We evaluate the carrying amount of our major long lived assets, including property and equipment and finite lived intangible assets, whenever changes in circumstances or events indicate that the value of such assets may not be fully recoverable. Excluding consideration of BPPs finite lived intangible assets discussed above, we did not recognize any impairment charges for our long lived assets during fiscal year 2010. At August 31, 2010, we believe the carrying amounts of our remaining long lived assets are fully recoverable and no impairment exists. Loss Contingencies We are subject to various claims and contingencies which are in the scope of ordinary and routine litigation incidental to our business, including those related to regulation, litigation, business transactions, employee related matters and taxes, among others. When we become aware of a claim or potential claim, the likelihood of any loss or exposure is assessed. If it is probable that a loss will result and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the loss. The liability recorded includes probable and estimable legal costs incurred to date and future legal costs to the point in the legal matter where we believe a conclusion to the matter will be reached. If the loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose the claim if the likelihood of a potential loss is reasonably possible and 78 Table of Contents the amount of the potential loss could be material. For matters where no loss contingency is recorded, our policy is to expense legal fees as incurred. The assessment of the likelihood of a potential loss and the estimation of the amount of a loss are subjective and require judgment. On June 23, 2010, the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the District Courts prior ruling in our favor in the securities class action lawsuit, In re Apollo Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case No. CV04 2147 PHX JAT, and ordered the trial court to enter judgment against us in accordance with the prior jury verdict. The actual amount of damages payable will not be known until all court proceedings have been completed and eligible members of the class have presented the necessary information and documents to receive payment of the award. We have estimated for financial reporting purposes, using statistically valid models and a 60% confidence interval, that the damages could range from $127.2 million to $228.0 million, which includes our estimates of (a) damages payable to the plaintiff class; (b) the amount we may be required to reimburse our insurance carriers for amounts advanced for defense costs; and (c) future defense costs. Accordingly, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, we recorded a charge for estimated damages in the amount of $132.6 million, which, together with the existing reserve of $44.5 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, represents the mid point of the estimated range of damages payable to the plaintiffs, plus the other estimated costs and expenses. We elected to record an amount based on the mid point of the range of damages payable to the plaintiff class because under statistically valid modeling techniques the mid point of the range is in fact a more likely estimate than other points in the range, and the point at which there is an equal probability that the ultimate loss could be toward the lower end or the higher end of the range. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we recorded a $0.9 million charge for incremental post judgment interest. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Accounting for Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the new rate is enacted. The determination of our uncertain tax positions requires us to make significant judgments. We evaluate and account for uncertain tax positions using a two step approach. Recognition (step one) occurs when we conclude that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. Measurement (step two) determines the amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Derecognition of a tax position that was previously recognized would occur when we subsequently determine that a tax position no longer meets the more likely than not threshold of being sustained. We do not use a valuation allowance as a substitute for derecognition of tax positions. Our total unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, were $166.0 million and $84.9 million as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Share Based Compensation We measure and recognize compensation expense for all share based awards issued to faculty, employees and directors based on estimated fair values of the share awards on the date of grant. We record compensation expense, net of forfeitures, for all share based awards over the expected vesting period using the straight line method for awards with only a service condition, and the graded vesting attribution method for awards with service and performance conditions. We calculate the fair value of share based awards on the date of grant. For stock options, we typically use the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model to estimate fair value. The Black Scholes Merton option pricing model requires us to estimate key assumptions such as expected term, volatility, risk free interest rates 79 Table of Contents and dividend yield to determine the fair value of stock options, based on both historical information and management judgment regarding market factors and trends. In the absence of reliable historical data, we generally use the simplified mid point method to estimate expected term of stock options. The simplified method uses the mid point between the vesting term and the contractual term of the share option. We have analyzed our historical data and believe that the structure and exercise behavior of our stock options has changed significantly, resulting in a lack of reliable historical exercise data that can be used to estimate expected term for stock options granted in recent fiscal years. We will continue to use the simplified method until reliable historical data is available, or until circumstances change such that the use of alternative methods for estimating expected term is more appropriate. For share based awards with performance conditions, such as our Performance Share Awards described in Note 17, Stock and Savings Plans, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we measure the fair value of such awards as of the date of grant and amortize share based compensation expense for our estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. Our estimate of the number of shares that will vest is based on our determination of the probable outcome of the performance condition, which requires considerable judgment. We estimate expected forfeitures of share based awards at the grant date and recognize compensation cost only for those awards expected to vest. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on several factors including historical forfeiture activity, expected future employee turnover, and other qualitative factors. We ultimately adjust this forfeiture assumption to actual forfeitures. Therefore, changes in the forfeiture assumptions do not impact the total amount of expense ultimately recognized over the vesting period. Rather, different forfeiture assumptions only impact the timing of expense recognition over the vesting period. If the actual forfeitures differ from management estimates, additional adjustments to compensation expense are recorded. We used the following weighted average assumptions in the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model for stock options granted in the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31, 2010 2009 2008 Expected volatility 48.6 % 47.7 % 44.2 % Expected life (years) 4.2 4.2 4.2 Risk free interest rate 1.5 % 2.2 % 2.9 % Dividend yield 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value of the stock option grants and therefore, share based compensation expense, are the expected life and expected volatility. The following table illustrates how changes to these assumptions would affect the weighted average fair value per option as of the grant date for the approximately 850,000 options granted during fiscal year 2010: Expected Volatility Expected Life (Years) 43.7% 48.6% 53.5% 3.7 $ 14.86 $ 16.29 $ 17.67 4.2 15.81 17.30 18.74 4.7 16.69 18.25 19.74 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for recent accounting pronouncements. Results of Operations We have included below a discussion of our operating results and significant items which explain the material changes in our operating results during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008. Our operations are generally subject to seasonal trends. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our results of operations, principally as a result of seasonal variations in the level of University of Phoenix enrollments. 80 Table of Contents Although University of Phoenix enrolls students throughout the year, its net revenue is generally lower in our second fiscal quarter (December through February) than the other quarters due to holiday breaks in December and January. As discussed in the Overview of this MDA, we expect our initiatives to enhance the student experience and outcomes will adversely impact our fiscal year 2011 net revenue, operating income, and cash flow, as well as University of Phoenix New Degreed Enrollment and Degreed Enrollment. However, we believe that these efforts are in the best interests of our students and, over the long term, will improve student persistence and completion rates and therefore reduce bad debt expense, reduce our risk associated with our regulatory environment, and position us for more stable long term growth. We categorize our operating expenses as instructional costs and services, selling and promotional, and general and administrative. Instructional costs and services consist primarily of costs related to the delivery and administration of our educational programs and include costs related to faculty and administrative compensation, classroom and administration lease expenses and depreciation, bad debt expense, financial aid processing costs, costs related to the development of our educational programs and other related costs. Tuition costs for all employees and their eligible family members are recorded as an expense within instructional costs and services. Selling and promotional costs consist primarily of compensation for admissions personnel, management and support staff and corporate marketing, advertising expenses, production of marketing materials, and other costs directly related to selling and promotional functions. Selling and promotional costs are expensed when incurred. General and administrative costs consist primarily of corporate compensation, occupancy costs, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, legal and professional fees, and other related costs. 81 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year 2009 Analysis of Consolidated Statements of Income The table below details our consolidated results of operations. For a more detailed discussion by reportable segment, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Segment. % of Net Revenue Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, % ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009 Change Net revenue $ 4,925.8 $ 3,953.6 100.0 % 100.0 % 24.6 % Costs and expenses: Instructional costs and services 2,125.1 1,567.8 43.1 % 39.7 % 35.5 % Selling and promotional 1,112.6 952.9 22.6 % 24.1 % 16.8 % General and administrative 314.8 286.5 6.4 % 7.2 % 9.9 % Goodwill and other intangibles impairment 184.6 3.8 % * Estimated litigation loss 178.0 80.5 3.6 % 2.0 % * Total costs and expenses 3,915.1 2,887.7 79.5 % 73.0 % 35.6 % Operating income 1,010.7 1,065.9 20.5 % 27.0 % (5.2 )% Interest income 2.9 12.6 0.1 % 0.3 % (77.0 )% Interest expense (11.9 ) (4.4 ) (0.3 )% (0.1 )% (170.5 )% Other, net (0.6 ) (7.2 ) 0.0 % (0.2 )% 91.7 % Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,001.1 1,066.9 20.3 % 27.0 % (6.2 )% Provision for income taxes (464.1 ) (456.7 ) (9.4 )% (11.6 )% (1.6 )% Income from continuing operations 537.0 610.2 10.9 % 15.4 % (12.0 )% Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (15.4 ) (16.4 ) (0.3 )% (0.4 )% 6.1 % Net income 521.6 593.8 10.6 % 15.0 % (12.2 )% Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 31.4 4.5 0.6 % 0.1 % * Net income attributable to Apollo $ 553.0 $ 598.3 11.2 % 15.1 % (7.6 )% * not meaningful Net Revenue Our net revenue increased $972.2 million, or 24.6%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. University of Phoenixs 19.4% net revenue growth was the primary contributor to the increase, mainly due to its growth in Degreed Enrollment and selective tuition price increases. Apollo Globals acquisition of BPP also contributed $238.6 million, or 6.0 percentage points, of the overall increase in net revenue in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. For a more detailed discussion, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment. Instructional Costs and Services Instructional costs and services increased $557.3 million, or 35.5%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, which represents a 340 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to BPPs cost structure, and an increase in bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenue. Bad debt expense has increased as a result of the economic downturn and an increase in the proportion of our aged receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in degree programs with fewer than 24 incoming credits. Our collection rates for such students are lower compared to students enrolled in 82 Table of Contents graduate level programs and bachelors students with a higher level of incoming credits. Our bad debt expense was 5.7% of net revenue in fiscal year 2010 compared to 3.8% of net revenue in fiscal year 2009. Selling and Promotional Selling and promotional expenses increased $159.7 million, or 16.8%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, but represents a 150 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in expense mainly resulted from University of Phoenixs increased spending on non Internet long term branding and program driven marketing initiatives. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue is due the following: BPPs cost structure, as BPP incurs lower selling and promotional costs as a percentage of net revenue compared to our other businesses; reduced reliance on Internet marketing; and improved admissions personnel effectiveness at University of Phoenix. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased $28.3 million, or 9.9%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, but represents an 80 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to the following: a reduction in share based compensation; a reduction in legal costs in connection with defending ourselves in various legal matters. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for discussion of our legal matters; the write off in fiscal year 2009 of $9.4 million of information technology fixed assets that resulted primarily from our rationalization of software; and expense in fiscal year 2009 resulting from our internal review of certain Satisfactory Academic Progress calculations. Estimated Litigation Loss The estimated litigation loss in fiscal year 2010 represents charges associated with the Securities Class Action matter. The loss in fiscal year 2009 represents a charge associated with the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit. For discussion of the respective legal matters, refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Impairment We recorded an $8.7 million impairment of ULAs goodwill in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, and impairments of $156.3 million and $19.6 million for BPPs goodwill and other intangibles, respectively, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in this MDA for further discussion. Interest Income Interest income decreased $9.7 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to lower interest rates during fiscal year 2010. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $7.5 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to an increase in average borrowings principally at subsidiaries of Apollo Global, and an increase in average borrowings on our syndicated $500 million credit agreement (the Bank Facility). 83 Table of Contents Other, Net The loss in fiscal year 2010 was primarily attributable to net foreign currency losses related to our international operations. The loss in fiscal year 2009 was primarily attributable to $6.9 million of expense incurred for the purchase of a call option to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations related to the BPP acquisition. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate for fiscal year 2010 was 46.4% compared to 42.8% for fiscal year 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to the following: The BPP and ULA goodwill impairments, discussed above, for which we do not receive a tax benefit; An increase in other foreign losses for which we do not receive a tax benefit; and An increase in our state effective rate principally due to the decrease in pre tax income associated with the BPP and ULA goodwill impairment charges noted above. Our state effective rate has also been adversely impacted by a number of state law changes or interpretations that have resulted in a larger portion of our income generated from online operations being subject to state income tax in both Arizona and other states. Furthermore, as the percentage of our online revenues shift into or out of jurisdictions that source online revenues to the destination of our customers, or as states aggressively interpret existing laws or enact new laws that would begin sourcing our online revenues to the destination of our customers, our state effective tax rate could change. We are also currently under audit by the Arizona Department of Revenue. Refer to Note 14, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. The above items were partially offset by the following: A tax benefit recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 associated with our settlement of a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service relating to the deduction of certain stock option compensation on our U.S. federal income tax returns beginning in fiscal year 2003; The estimated tax impact on the estimated litigation loss recorded in fiscal year 2009 associated with the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit; and Certain compensation in fiscal year 2009 for which the tax benefit was uncertain under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, relates to our Insight Schools business, which we classified as held for sale and as discontinued operations in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. The decrease in the loss in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to growth in net revenue resulting from increased enrollment in the schools operated by Insight Schools. This was partially offset by a $9.4 million impairment of Insight Schools goodwill recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. Refer to Note 3, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests The increase in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was primarily due to Apollo Globals noncontrolling shareholders portion of the following impairment charges recorded during fiscal year 2010: a $156.3 million charge for BPPs goodwill in the fourth quarter; a $19.6 million charge for BPPs other intangibles in the fourth quarter; and an $8.7 million charge for ULAs goodwill in the third quarter. 84 Table of Contents Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment The table below details our operating results by segment for the periods indicated: Year Ended August 31, $ % ($ in millions) 2010 2009 Change Change Net revenue University of Phoenix $ 4,498.3 $ 3,766.6 $ 731.7 19.4 % Apollo Global: BPP 251.7 13.1 238.6 * Other(1) 78.3 76.1 2.2 2.9 % Total Apollo Global 330.0 89.2 240.8 * Other Schools 95.7 95.0 0.7 0.7 % Corporate(2) 1.8 2.8 (1.0 ) (35.7 )% Total net revenue $ 4,925.8 $ 3,953.6 $ 972.2 24.6 % Operating income (loss) University of Phoenix $ 1,447.6 $ 1,131.3 $ 316.3 28.0 % Apollo Global: BPP (186.6 ) (6.6 ) (180.0 ) * Other(1) (31.1 ) (11.4 ) (19.7 ) * Total Apollo Global (217.7 ) (18.0 ) (199.7 ) * Other Schools 9.2 6.9 2.3 33.3 % Corporate(2) (228.4 ) (54.3 ) (174.1 ) * Total operating income $ 1,010.7 $ 1,065.9 $ (55.2 ) (5.2 )% * not meaningful (1) As a result of contributing all of the common stock of Western International University to Apollo Global during fiscal year 2010, we are presenting Western International University in the Apollo Global Other reportable segment for all periods presented. (2) The Corporate caption in our segment reporting includes adjustments to reconcile segment results to consolidated results, which primarily consist of net revenue and corporate charges that are not allocated to our segments. The operating loss for Corporate in fiscal year 2010 includes $178.0 million of charges associated with the Securities Class Action matter. University of Phoenix The $731.7 million, or 19.4%, increase in net revenue in our University of Phoenix segment was primarily due to enrollment growth as detailed below: Aggregate New Degreed Degreed Enrollment(1) Enrollment(1), (2) Quarter Ended Year Ended August 31, % August 31, % (rounded to the nearest hundred) 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change Associates 200,800 201,200 (0.2 )% 187,700 191,700 (2.1 )% Bachelors 193,600 163,600 18.3 % 131,300 108,900 20.6 % Masters 68,700 71,200 (3.5 )% 49,300 51,900 (5.0 )% Doctoral 7,700 7,000 10.0 % 3,400 3,300 3.0 % Total 470,800 443,000 6.3 % 371,700 355,800 4.5 % 85 Table of Contents (1) Refer to Item 1, Business, for definitions of Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment. (2) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment represents the sum of quarterly New Degreed Enrollment during the fiscal year. We believe the enrollment growth is primarily attributable to the following: Enhancements in our marketing capabilities, along with continued investments in enhancing and expanding University of Phoenix academic quality and service offerings; and Economic uncertainties, as working learners seek to advance their education to improve their job security or reemployment prospects. This element of our growth may diminish as the economy and the employment outlook improve in the U.S. Partially offsetting the factors above are our efforts to better identify and enroll students who have the ability to succeed in our educational programs. Contributing to this effort are refinements in our marketing strategy, including leveraging our marketing analytics to identify and enroll those prospective students and our University Orientation pilot program. Decreased enrollment in masters degree programs also offsets this growth. For further discussion of University Orientation, refer to Overview in this MDA. In addition to the growth in Degreed Enrollment, net revenue increased due to selective tuition price and other fee changes implemented July 1, 2009, which varied by geographic area, program, and degree level. In the aggregate, these selective price and other fee changes, including increases in discounts for military and veteran students, averaged approximately 4%. We also implemented selective tuition price and other fee changes at University of Phoenix depending on geographic area, program, and degree level effective July 1, 2010. In aggregate, these tuition price and other fee changes, including increased discounts to military and other veteran students in selective programs, were generally in the range of 4 6%. Future net revenue and operating income will continue to be impacted by these price and other fee changes, along with changes in enrollment, student mix within programs and degree levels, and discounts. Operating income in our University of Phoenix segment increased $316.3 million, or 28.0%, during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to the following: The 19.4% increase in University of Phoenix net revenue; Employee headcount has grown at a lower rate than the increase in net revenue; and The $80.5 million charge recorded in fiscal year 2009 associated with the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. The above factors were partially offset by increased bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenue. Bad debt expense has increased as a result of the economic downturn and an increase in the proportion of our aged receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in degree programs with fewer than 24 incoming credits. Our collection rates for such students are lower compared to students enrolled in graduate level programs and bachelors students with a higher level of incoming credits. Apollo Global Apollo Globals net revenue increased $240.8 million during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. Apollo Globals acquisition of BPP during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 contributed $238.6 million of the increase in net revenue in fiscal year 2010. Apollo Globals operating loss increased $199.7 million during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to the following: Goodwill and other intangible impairments in fiscal year 2010 of $175.9 million and $8.7 million at BPP and ULA, respectively; 86 Table of Contents Amortization of BPP intangible assets, certain expenditures at BPP associated with the integration process, and an adverse impact on BPPs operations from the global economic downturn. Expenditures at Western International University, UNIACC and ULA including, but not limited to, initiatives to enhance academic quality and the respective brands. Other Schools The increase in Other Schools net revenue and operating income was primarily due to increased enrollment at Meritus and a contract termination fee earned by IPD during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. Operating income also increased due to a decrease in selling and promotional expense at Meritus, which is primarily the result of more expenditures in fiscal year 2009 related to its launch of programs early in fiscal year 2009. Fiscal Year 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year 2008 Analysis of Consolidated Statements of Income % of Net Revenue Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, % ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2009 2008 Change Net revenue $ 3,953.6 $ 3,133.4 100.0 % 100.0 % 26.2 % Costs and expenses: Instructional costs and services 1,567.8 1,349.9 39.7 % 43.1 % 16.1 % Selling and promotional 952.9 801.0 24.1 % 25.6 % 19.0 % General and administrative 286.5 215.1 7.2 % 6.8 % 33.2 % Estimated litigation loss 80.5 2.0 % * Total costs and expenses 2,887.7 2,366.0 73.0 % 75.5 % 22.0 % Operating income 1,065.9 767.4 27.0 % 24.5 % 38.9 % Interest income 12.6 30.1 0.3 % 1.0 % (58.1 )% Interest expense (4.4 ) (3.5 ) (0.1 )% (0.1 )% (25.7 )% Other, net (7.2 ) 6.7 (0.2 )% 0.2 % * Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,066.9 800.7 27.0 % 25.6 % 33.2 % Provision for income taxes (456.7 ) (314.0 ) (11.6 )% (10.1 )% (45.4 )% Income from continuing operations 610.2 486.7 15.4 % 15.5 % 25.4 % Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (16.4 ) (10.8 ) (0.4 )% (0.3 )% (51.9 )% Net income 593.8 475.9 15.0 % 15.2 % 24.8 % Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 4.5 0.6 0.1 % * Net income attributable to Apollo $ 598.3 $ 476.5 15.1 % 15.2 % 25.6 % * not meaningful Net Revenue Our net revenue increased $820.2 million, or 26.2%, in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. University of Phoenix represented approximately 95% of our net revenue during this period, and contributed the majority of the increase primarily due to growth in Degreed Enrollment and selective tuition price and other fee changes. Net revenue also increased $46.9 million primarily from Apollo Global earning a full year 87 Table of Contents of revenue from acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2008. For a more detailed discussion, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment. Instructional Costs and Services Instructional costs and services increased $217.9 million, or 16.1%, in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008, but represents a 340 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to University of Phoenix leveraging its fixed costs, such as certain employee wages, classroom space and depreciation expense, and a decrease in financial aid processing costs from the favorable renegotiation, effective September 2008, of our contract with our outsourced financial aid processing vendor. This was partially offset by increases in expense as a percentage of net revenue at Apollo Global associated with its start up, development and other infrastructure and support costs, as well as an increase as a percentage of net revenue in bad debt expense. Our bad debt expense was 3.8% of net revenue in fiscal year 2009 compared to 3.3% of net revenue in fiscal year 2008. Selling and Promotional Selling and promotional expenses increased $151.9 million, or 19.0%, in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 representing a 150 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to University of Phoenix improved admissions personnel effectiveness. Additionally, investments we made in our corporate marketing function resulted in more effective advertising. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased $71.4 million, or 33.2%, in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 representing a 40 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to the following: administrative expenses to support our strategic growth initiatives and enhance our corporate governance, increased legal costs in connection with defending ourselves in legal matters, and the write off of $9.4 million of information technology fixed assets that resulted primarily from our rationalization of software. Estimated Litigation Loss In connection with the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit, we accrued $80.5 million in fiscal year 2009 based on settlement discussions to resolve this matter. We settled this legal matter in fiscal year 2010. See Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. Interest Income Interest income decreased $17.5 million in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. The decrease is primarily due to lower interest rate yields, which was partially offset by increases in average cash and cash equivalents balances (including restricted cash) during the respective periods. When the Federal Reserve Bank lowers the Federal Funds Rate, it generally results in a reduction in our interest rates. The reduction of the Federal Funds Rate in December 2008 to the range of 0.0% 0.25% lowered our average interest rate yield for fiscal year 2009 below 1%. 88 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense increased $0.9 million in fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 due to an increase in average borrowings during the respective periods, principally due to debt incurred by subsidiaries of Apollo Global and borrowings on our syndicated $500 million credit agreement (the Bank Facility). Other, Net The loss in fiscal year 2009 was primarily attributable to $6.9 million of expense incurred for the purchase of a call option to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations related to the BPP acquisition. The remaining loss primarily relates to net foreign currency losses related to our international operations. The income in fiscal year 2008 was primarily attributable to other income of $9.5 million from the forfeiture of an escrow deposit provided in connection with a now cancelled agreement to sell and leaseback our headquarters, which was partially offset by net foreign currency losses related to our international operations. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate for fiscal year 2009 was 42.8% compared to 39.2% for fiscal year 2008. The increase was primarily attributable to the following: The estimated tax impact on the estimated litigation loss recorded in fiscal year 2009 associated with the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit; An increase in state taxes due to the allocation of our online operations income amongst various U.S. state and local jurisdictions; A reduction in our tax exempt interest income; An increase in net operating losses for which we cannot currently take a tax benefit; and Certain compensation in fiscal year 2009 for which the tax benefit was uncertain under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, relates to our Insight Schools business, which we classified as held for sale and as discontinued operations in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. The increase in the loss generated by Insight Schools during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to increased regulatory compliance costs and additional costs to grow the business. See Note 3, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. 89 Table of Contents Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment The table below details our operating results by segment for the periods indicated: Year Ended August 31, $ % ($ in millions) 2009 2008 Change Change Net revenue University of Phoenix $ 3,766.6 $ 2,987.7 $ 778.9 26.1 % Apollo Global: BPP 13.1 13.1 * Other(1) 76.1 42.3 33.8 79.9 % Total Apollo Global 89.2 42.3 46.9 110.9 % Other Schools 95.0 93.6 1.4 1.5 % Corporate(2) 2.8 9.8 (7.0 ) * Total net revenue $ 3,953.6 $ 3,133.4 $ 820.2 26.2 % Operating income (loss) University of Phoenix $ 1,131.3 $ 817.6 $ 313.7 38.4 % Apollo Global BPP (6.6 ) (6.6 ) * Other(1) (11.4 ) 1.3 (12.7 ) * Total Apollo Global (18.0 ) 1.3 (19.3 ) * Other Schools 6.9 17.1 (10.2 ) (59.6 )% Corporate(2) (54.3 ) (68.6 ) 14.3 20.8 % Total operating income $ 1,065.9 $ 767.4 $ 298.5 38.9 % * not meaningful (1) As a result of contributing all of the common stock of Western International University to Apollo Global during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, we are presenting Western International University in the Apollo Global Other reportable segment for all periods presented. (2) The Corporate caption in our segment reporting includes adjustments to reconcile segment results to consolidated results, which primarily consist of net revenue and corporate charges that are not allocated to our segments. University of Phoenix The $778.9 million, or 26.1%, increase in net revenue in our University of Phoenix segment was primarily due to enrollment growth as detailed below: Aggregate New Degreed Degreed Enrollment(1) Enrollment(1), (2) Quarter Ended August 31, % Year Ended August 31, % (rounded to the nearest hundred) 2009 2008 Change 2009 2008 Change Associates 201,200 146,500 37.3 % 191,700 143,400 33.7 % Bachelors 163,600 141,800 15.4 % 108,900 92,400 17.9 % Masters 71,200 67,700 5.2 % 51,900 49,400 5.1 % Doctoral 7,000 6,100 14.8 % 3,300 3,000 10.0 % Total 443,000 362,100 22.3 % 355,800 288,200 23.5 % (1) Refer to Item 1, Business, for definitions of Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment. 90 Table of Contents (2) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment represents the sum of quarterly New Degreed Enrollment during the fiscal year. Enrollment growth in Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment is in part the result of investments in enhancing and expanding University of Phoenix academic quality and service offerings, which has attracted new students and increased student retention. Enhancements in our marketing effectiveness have also contributed to the increases. Also, we believe that a portion of the increase is due to the economic downturn, as working learners seek to advance their education to improve their job security or reemployment prospects. In addition to the growth in Degreed Enrollment, net revenue increased due to selective tuition price and other fee changes implemented in July 2009 and July 2008, depending on geographic area, program, and degree level. In the aggregate, the July 2009 selective price and other fee changes, including increases in discounts for military and veteran students, averaged approximately 4%. The July 2008 selective tuition price and other fee changes included an approximate 10% increase in associates degree tuition price and increases averaging 4% to 5% for bachelors and masters degree programs. The increase in net revenue was partially offset by a continued shift in our student body mix to a higher percentage of students enrolled in associates degree programs, which have tuition prices generally lower than other degree programs. Associates Degreed Enrollment represented 45.4% of Degreed Enrollment during the quarter ended August 31, 2009, compared to 40.5% during the quarter ended August 31, 2008. In addition, associates Degreed Enrollment increased 37.3% in the quarter ended August 31, 2009 compared to the quarter ended August 31, 2008. Operating income in our University of Phoenix segment increased $313.7 million, or 38.4%, during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. The increase in operating income was positively impacted by the following: Economies of scale associated with the 26.1% increase in University of Phoenix net revenue as many costs remain relatively fixed such as certain employee wages, classroom space and depreciation when University of Phoenix grows its net revenue. Additionally, variable employee headcount has grown at a lower rate than the increase in net revenue; A decrease in financial aid processing costs from the favorable renegotiation, effective September 2008, of our contract with our outsourced financial aid processing vendor; Investments in our corporate marketing function that produced more effective and efficient advertising resulting in a decrease in advertising expense as a percentage of net revenue; and An increase in admissions personnel effectiveness as a result of internal initiatives to assist admissions personnel in their jobs, as well as an increase in the average tenure of admissions personnel. Operating income was negatively impacted by the $80.5 million estimated litigation loss recorded in connection with the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit. See Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion. Operating income was also negatively impacted by increased bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenue resulting from the economic downturn and an increase in the proportion of our aged receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in degree programs with fewer than 24 incoming credits. Our collection rates for such students are lower compared to students enrolled in graduate level programs and bachelors students with a higher level of incoming credits. Apollo Global Apollo Global net revenue increased $46.9 million during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. The net revenue was generated by BPP, which was acquired on July 30, 2009, and UNIACC and ULA, which were acquired in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2008, respectively. The $18.0 million operating loss for Apollo Global during fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to the following: General and administrative expenses associated with the pursuit of opportunities to partner with and or acquire existing institutions of higher learning where we believe we can achieve long term attractive growth and value creation; and 91 Table of Contents Expenditures at BPP, UNIACC and ULA including, but not limited to, initiatives to expand offerings and enhance academic quality and marketing. Other Schools The decrease in operating income in our Other Schools segment was primarily due to our expenditures related to developing Meritus University, which launched its first programs early in fiscal year 2009. Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position We believe that our cash and cash equivalents and available liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations through at least the next 12 months. We believe that the most strategic uses of our cash resources include investments in the continued enhancement and expansion of our student offerings, share repurchases, acquisition opportunities including our commitment to Apollo Global, investments to further transition our marketing approaches to more effectively identify students who have the ability to succeed in our educational programs, and investments in information technology initiatives. Additionally, we may be required to post a bond to stay enforcement of the judgment in our Securities Class Action matter or pay damages awarded in that action. Although we currently have substantial available liquidity, our ability to access the credit markets and other sources of liquidity may be adversely affected if we experience regulatory compliance challenges, reduced availability of Title IV funding or other adverse effects on our business from regulatory or legislative changes. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash and Cash Equivalents The following table provides a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents (including long term) at August 31, 2010 and 2009: % of Total Assets at August 31, August 31, % ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009 Change Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,284.8 $ 968.2 35.7 % 29.7 % 32.7 % Restricted cash and cash equivalents 444.1 432.3 12.3 % 13.2 % 2.7 % Long term restricted cash and cash equivalents 126.6 3.5 % 100.0 % Total $ 1,855.5 $ 1,400.5 51.5 % 42.9 % 32.5 % Cash and cash equivalents (excluding restricted cash) increased $316.6 million primarily due to $1,045.1 million of cash provided by operating activities, which was partially offset by $446.4 million used for share repurchases, $168.2 million used for capital expenditures, and a $138.4 million increase in restricted cash (including long term restricted cash). Cash provided by operating activities was adversely impacted by our $80.5 million settlement payment, including legal fees, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 for the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we received an unfavorable ruling by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in the Securities Class Action matter. We are evaluating our available options and may be required to post a bond to stay enforcement of the judgment. We have estimated that the damages for this matter could range from $127.2 million to $228.0 million. We believe we have adequate liquidity to fund the amount of any required bond, or if necessary, the satisfaction of the judgment. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion. Also during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we posted a $126 million letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education as required in connection with a program review of University of Phoenix by the Department. The letter of credit is fully cash collateralized and must be maintained until at least June 30, 2012. The long term restricted cash at August 31, 2010 represents the funds used to collateralize this 92 Table of Contents letter of credit. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. We measure our money market funds included in cash equivalents and restricted cash equivalents at fair value. At August 31, 2010, we had money market funds totaling $1,469.0 million that were valued primarily using real time quotes for transactions in active exchange markets involving identical assets, and $386.5 million of cash held in bank overnight deposit accounts that approximate fair value. As of August 31, 2010, we did not record any material adjustments to reflect our money market funds at fair value. Debt Bank Facility In fiscal year 2008, we entered into a syndicated $500 million credit agreement (the Bank Facility). The Bank Facility is an unsecured revolving credit facility used for general corporate purposes including acquisitions and stock buybacks. The Bank Facility has an expansion feature for an aggregate principal amount of up to $250 million. The term is five years and will expire on January 4, 2013. The Bank Facility provides a multi currency sub limit facility for borrowings in certain specified foreign currencies. We borrowed our entire credit line under the Bank Facility, as of August 31, 2010 and 2009, which included 63.0 million denominated in British Pounds (equivalent to $97.9 million and $102.6 million U.S. dollars as of August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009, respectively) related to the BPP acquisition. We repaid the U.S. dollar denominated debt on our Bank Facility of $393 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 and $400.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We have classified the U.S. dollar denominated portion of our Bank Facility borrowings as short term borrowings and the current portion of long term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because it was repaid subsequent to our respective fiscal year ends. The Bank Facility fees are determined based on a pricing grid that varies according to our leverage ratio. The Bank Facility fee ranges from 12.5 to 17.5 basis points and the incremental fees for borrowings under the facility range from LIBOR + 50.0 to 82.5 basis points. The weighted average interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the Bank Facility at August 31, 2010 and 2009 was 2.9% and 1.0%, respectively. The Bank Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including the following financial covenants: maximum leverage ratio, minimum coverage interest and rent expense ratio, and a U.S. Department of Education financial responsibility composite score. In addition, there are covenants restricting indebtedness, liens, investments, asset transfers and distributions. We were in compliance with all covenants related to the Bank Facility at August 31, 2010. BPP Credit Facility In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we refinanced BPPs debt by entering into a 52.0 million (equivalent to $80.8 million based on the August 31, 2010 exchange rate) credit agreement (the BPP Credit Facility). The BPP Credit Facility contains term debt, which was used to refinance BPPs existing debt, and revolving credit facilities used for working capital and general corporate purposes. The term of the agreement is three years and will expire on August 31, 2013. The interest rate on borrowings varies according to a financial ratio and range from LIBOR + 250 to 325 basis points. The weighted average interest rate on BPPs outstanding borrowings at August 31, 2010 and 2009 was 4.0% and 1.3%, respectively. The BPP Credit Facility contains financial covenants that include minimum cash flow coverage ratio, minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, maximum leverage ratio, and maximum capital expenditure ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants related to the BPP Credit Facility at August 31, 2010. Other Other debt includes $8.7 million of variable rate debt and $17.0 million of fixed rate debt at the subsidiaries of Apollo Global. The weighted average interest rate of these debt instruments at August 31, 2010 and 2009 was 6.7% and 7.2%, respectively. 93 Table of Contents Cash Flows Operating Activities The following table provides a summary of our operating cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31, ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Net income $ 521.6 $ 593.8 $ 475.9 Non cash items 719.5 376.9 213.4 Changes in certain operating assets and liabilities (196.0 ) (10.5 ) 36.7 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,045.1 $ 960.2 $ 726.0 Fiscal year 2010 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $282.6 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $194.0 million for goodwill and other intangibles impairments (including Insight Schools goodwill impairment included in discontinued operations), $178.0 million for an estimated litigation loss, $147.0 million for depreciation and amortization, and $64.3 million for share based compensation. This was partially offset by $125.4 million of deferred income taxes. The changes in certain operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $266.0 million increase in accounts receivable principally due to increased enrollment and tuition price increases at University of Phoenix, and a $44.7 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities primarily due to the settlement payment for the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit. This was partially offset by a $65.7 million increase in other liabilities principally due to an increase in uncertain tax positions associated with state taxes, and a $32.9 million increase in deferred revenue principally due to increased enrollment and tuition price increases. Fiscal year 2009 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $152.5 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $113.4 million for depreciation and amortization, $80.5 million for an estimated litigation loss for the Incentive Compensation False Claims Act Lawsuit, and $68.0 million for share based compensation, which was partially offset by $18.5 million of excess tax benefits from share based compensation. The changes in certain operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $192.3 million increase in accounts receivable, primarily due to increased enrollment, as well as a delay in disbursements of certain Title IV funds prior to year end (see further discussion below). This was partially offset by an $80.3 million increase in deferred revenue and a $59.5 million increase in student deposits, both of which were primarily due to increased enrollment, and an increase of $45.4 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Fiscal year 2008 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $104.2 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $92.5 million for depreciation and amortization, and $53.6 million for share based compensation, which was partially offset by $18.6 million of excess tax benefits from share based compensation. The changes in certain operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an $85.3 million increase in student deposits and a $35.3 million increase in deferred revenue, both of which were primarily due to increased enrollment. This was partially offset by a $105.7 million increase in accounts receivable, also primarily due to increased enrollment. We monitor our accounts receivable through a variety of metrics, including days sales outstanding. We calculate our days sales outstanding by determining average daily student revenue based on a rolling twelve month analysis and divide it into the gross student accounts receivable balance as of the end of the period. As of August 31, 2010, excluding accounts receivable and the related net revenue for Apollo Global, our days sales outstanding was 30 days as compared to 32 days as of August 31, 2009. The decrease in days sales outstanding versus a year ago is primarily attributable to a more pronounced seasonal increase in accounts receivable at August 31, 2009 due to University of Phoenix annual student financial aid system enhancements and upgrades. 94 Table of Contents Investing Activities The following table provides a summary of our investing cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31, ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Capital expenditures $ (168.2 ) $ (127.3 ) $ (104.9 ) Increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents (138.4 ) (48.2 ) (87.7 ) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (5.5 ) (523.8 ) (93.8 ) Other 5.0 8.0 25.6 Net cash used in investing activities $ (307.1 ) $ (691.3 ) $ (260.8 ) Fiscal year 2010 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $168.2 million for capital expenditures principally related to investments in our computer equipment and software, and a $138.4 million increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents. The increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents includes the collateralization of a $126 million letter of credit posted in favor of the U.S. Department of Education as required in connection with a program review of University of Phoenix by the Department. We anticipate that our capital expenditures in fiscal year 2011 will be approximately twice the fiscal year 2010 amount as we invest in our core information technology and network infrastructure. Fiscal year 2009 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $523.8 million for Apollo Globals acquisitions (including $510.1 related to the acquisition of BPP), $127.3 million for capital expenditures, and a $48.2 million increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents. This was partially offset by $8.0 million provided by net maturities of marketable securities. Fiscal year 2008 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $104.9 million for capital expenditures (including $12.4 million for our corporate headquarters), $93.8 million for acquisitions, including Aptimus and Apollo Globals purchases of UNIACC and ULA, and an $87.7 million increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents. This was partially offset by $25.5 million provided by net maturities of marketable securities. Financing Activities The following table provides a summary of our financing cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31, ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Purchase of Apollo Group Class A common stock $ (446.4 ) $ (452.5 ) $ (454.4 ) (Payments) proceeds related to borrowings, net (2.1 ) 475.8 (0.4 ) Issuance of Apollo Group Class A common stock 19.7 117.1 103.0 Noncontrolling interest contributions 2.5 59.0 12.1 Other 6.6 18.5 18.7 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (419.7 ) $ 217.9 $ (321.0 ) Fiscal year 2010 Cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $446.4 million used for the repurchase of 8.0 million shares of our Class A common stock. This was partially offset by $19.7 million of cash received for stock option exercises. Fiscal year 2009 Cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $475.8 million of net proceeds from borrowings, $117.1 million of cash received for stock option exercises and $59.0 million related to minority interest contributions. This was partially offset by $452.5 million of cash used for the repurchase of 7.3 million shares of our Class A common stock. 95 Table of Contents Fiscal year 2008 Cash used for financing activities primarily consisted of $454.4 million used for the repurchase of 9.8 million shares of our Class A common stock. This was partially offset by $103.0 million of cash received for stock option exercises. Shares of our Class A common stock newly authorized for repurchase, repurchased and reissued, and the related total cost, for the last three fiscal years are as follows: Total Number Maximum Value of of Shares Average Price Paid Shares Available Repurchased Cost per Share for Repurchase (numbers in millions, except per share data) Treasury stock as of August 31, 2007 22.2 $ 1,461.4 $ 65.94 $ 62.3 New authorizations 892.1 Shares repurchased 9.8 454.4 46.25 (454.4 ) Shares reissued (2.5 ) (158.5 ) 64.65 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2008 29.5 $ 1,757.3 $ 59.50 $ 500.0 New authorizations 444.4 Shares repurchased 7.2 444.4 61.62 (444.4 ) Other share repurchases(1) 0.1 8.1 68.11 Shares reissued (3.1 ) (187.2 ) 59.96 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2009 33.7 $ 2,022.6 $ 59.94 $ 500.0 New authorizations 500.0 Shares repurchased 7.9 439.3 55.78 (439.3 ) Other share repurchases(1) 0.1 7.1 47.45 Shares reissued (1.0 ) (61.2 ) 57.95 Treasury stock as of August 31, 2010 40.7 $ 2,407.8 $ 59.14 $ 560.7 (1) In connection with the release of vested shares of restricted stock, we repurchased approximately 149,000 and 119,000 shares for $7.1 million and $8.1 million during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. These repurchases relate to tax withholding requirements on the restricted stock units and do not fall under the repurchase program described below, and therefore do not reduce the amount that is available for repurchase under that program. We did not have any such repurchases during fiscal year 2008. On February 18, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a $500 million increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program up to an aggregate amount of $1 billion of Apollo Class A common stock. There is no expiration date on the repurchase authorizations and repurchases occur at our discretion. The amount and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be made as market and business conditions warrant. Repurchases may be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, pursuant to the applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules, and may include repurchases pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b5 1 nondiscretionary trading programs. 96 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The following table lists our contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of August 31, 2010: Payments Due by Fiscal Year ($ in millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Debt(1) $ 418.7 $ 160.5 $ 2.8 $ 5.6 $ 587.6 Operating lease obligations 162.9 278.3 211.7 278.3 931.2 Capital lease obligations 2.6 2.7 1.2 2.8 9.3 Stadium naming rights(2) 6.5 13.6 14.5 94.2 128.8 Uncertain tax positions(3) 9.6 117.4 127.0 Other obligations(4) 1.0 2.9 3.9 3.2 11.0 Total $ 601.3 $ 458.0 $ 234.1 $ 501.5 $ 1,794.9 (1) Amounts include expected future interest payments. Refer to Note 12, Debt, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our outstanding debt. (2) Amounts consist of an agreement for naming rights to the Glendale, Arizona Sports Complex until 2026. (3) Amounts consist of unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, that are included in other current and other long term liabilities in our August 31, 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled. (4) Amount consists of unconditional purchase obligations and undiscounted deferred compensation payments due to Dr. John G. Sperling, our founder. We have no other material commercial commitments not included in the above table. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our normal operations, our insurers issue surety bonds for us that are required by various states where we operate. We are obligated to reimburse our insurers for any surety bonds that are paid by the insurers. As of August 31, 2010, the total face amount of these surety bonds was approximately $49.8 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we posted a $126 million letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education as required in connection with a program review of University of Phoenix by the Department. The letter of credit is fully cash collateralized and must be maintained until at least June 30, 2012. Refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Financial Aid Program Funds See the discussion of financial aid program funds in Item 1, Business, Financial Aid Programs Domestic Postsecondary. Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Impact of Inflation Inflation has not had a significant impact on our historical operations. 97 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Risk We use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency. The functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are generally the local currencies. Accordingly, our foreign currency exchange risk is related to the following exposure areas: Adjustments resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of the foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates. These translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss); Earnings volatility from the translation of income and expense items of the foreign subsidiaries using an average monthly exchange rate for the respective periods; and Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency exchange rate changes related to intercompany receivables and payables that are not of a long term investment nature, as well as gains and losses from foreign currency transactions. These items are recorded in Other, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. In fiscal year 2010, we recorded $20.8 million in net foreign currency translation losses, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income. These losses are primarily the result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the British Pound during fiscal year 2010. As we continue to expand our international operations, we will conduct more transactions in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, thus increasing our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The following table outlines our net asset exposure by foreign currency (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities and excluding intercompany balances) denominated in U.S. dollars for foreign currencies in which we have significant assets and or liabilities as of August 31: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 British Pound Sterling $ 162.4 $ 369.6 Euro 31.9 36.0 Mexican Peso 20.6 29.2 Chilean Peso 19.5 18.4 Apollo has not generally used derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Interest Rate Risk Interest Income As of August 31, 2010, we held $1,870.7 million in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents (including long term), and marketable securities. During fiscal year 2010, we earned interest income of $2.9 million. When the Federal Reserve Bank lowers the Federal Funds Rate, it generally results in a reduction in our interest rates. The reduction of the Federal Funds Rate in December 2008 to the range of 0.0% 0.25% has lowered our interest rate yields in fiscal year 2010 below 1%. Based on the current Federal Funds Rate, we do not believe any further reduction would have a material impact on us. 98 Table of Contents Interest Expense We have exposure to changing interest rates primarily associated with our variable rate debt. At August 31, 2010, we had a total outstanding debt balance of $584.4 million. The following table presents the weighted average interest rates and our scheduled maturities of principal by fiscal year for our outstanding debt at August 31, 2010: ($ in millions, except percentages) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Total Fixed rate debt $ 8.5 $ 3.2 $ 2.8 $ 1.5 $ 1.6 $ 7.2 $ 24.8 Average interest rate 5.2 % Variable rate debt $ 407.9 $ 18.0 $ 133.7 $ $ $ $ 559.6 Average interest rate 3.1 % We have an interest rate swap with a notional amount of 32.0 million ($49.7 million) used to minimize the interest rate exposure on a portion of BPPs variable rate debt. The interest rate swap is used to fix the variable interest rate on the associated debt. As of August 31, 2010, the fair value of the swap is a liability of $5.1 million and is included in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the purpose of sensitivity, based on our outstanding variable rate debt exposed to changes in interest rates as of August 31, 2010, an increase of 100 basis points in our weighted average interest rate would increase interest expense by approximately $5.1 million on an annual basis. Substantially all of our debt is variable interest rate and the carrying amount approximates fair value. Auction Rate Securities Risk At August 31, 2010, our auction rate securities totaled $15.2 million. Our auction rate securities are insignificant to our total assets that require fair value measurements and thus, the use and possible changes in the use of these unobservable inputs would not have a material impact on our liquidity and capital resources. We will continue to monitor our investment portfolio. We will also continue to evaluate any changes in the market value of the failed auction rate securities that have not been liquidated and depending upon existing market conditions, we may be required to record other than temporary impairment charges in the future. For further discussion of our fair value measurements, refer to Note 10, Fair Value Measurements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 99 Table of Contents 
 
