Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThis Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help investors understand our results of operations, financial condition and present business environment. The MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The MD&A is organized as follows:Overview: From managements point of view, we discuss the following:An overview of our business and the sectors of the education industry in which we operate;Key trends, developments and challenges; andSignificant events from the current period.Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: A discussion of our accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates.Recent Accounting Pronouncements: A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements.Results of Operations: An analysis of our results of operations as reflected on our consolidated financial statements.Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position: An analysis of cash flows and contractual obligations and other commercial commitments.OverviewApollo is one of the worlds largest private education providers and has been a provider of education services for more than 35 years. We offer innovative and distinctive educational programs and services at the undergraduate, masters and doctoral levels at our various campuses and learning centers, and online throughout the world. Our principal wholly owned subsidiaries and subsidiaries that we control include the following:The University of Phoenix, Inc. (University of Phoenix),Apollo Global, Inc. (Apollo Global):BPP Holdings, plc (BPP),Western International University, Inc. (Western International University),Universidad de Artes, Ciencias y Comunicacin (UNIACC),Universidad Latinoamericana (ULA),Institute for Professional Development (IPD), andThe College for Financial Planning Institutes Corporation (CFFP).Substantially all of our net revenue is composed of tuition and fees for educational services. University of Phoenix represented 91% of our total consolidated net revenue and more than 100% of our operating income in fiscal year 2011. University of Phoenix generated 86% of its cash basis revenue for eligible tuition and fees during fiscal year 2011 from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, as calculated under the 90/10 Rule.We believe that a critical element of generating successful long term growth and attractive returns for our stakeholders is to provide high quality educational products and services for our students in order for them to maximize the benefits of their educational experience. Accordingly, we are intensely focused on student success and more effectively identifying and enrolling students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs. We are continuously enhancing and expanding our current service offerings and investing in academic quality. We have developed customized systems for academic quality management, faculty recruitment and training, student tracking, and marketing to help us more effectively manage toward this objective. We believe we utilize one of the most comprehensive postsecondary learning assessment programs in the U.S. We seek to improve student retention by enhancing student services, promoting instructional innovation and improving academic support. All of these efforts are designed to help our students stay in school and succeed.Key Trends, Developments and ChallengesThe following developments and trends present opportunities, challenges and risks as we work toward our goal of providing attractive returns for all of our stakeholders:Initiative to Enhance Student Experience and Outcomes. We are intensely focused on improving student experiences and outcomes. In furtherance of this focus, in fiscal year 2010 we began to implement a number of important changes and initiatives to transition our business to more effectively support our students and improve their educational outcomes, which efforts have continued in fiscal year 2011. These initiatives include, but are not limited to, the 58Table of Contentsfollowing:Upgrading our learning and data platforms;Adopting new tools to better support students financing decisions for educational costs, such as our Responsible Borrowing Calculator, which is designed to help students calculate the amount of student borrowing necessary to achieve their educational objectives and to motivate them to not incur unnecessary student loan debt;Refining our marketing approaches to more effectively identify students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs, including reduced emphasis on the utilization of third parties for lead generation;Requiring all associates and bachelors students who enroll in University of Phoenix with fewer than 24 credits (one year of college credit) to first attend a free, three week University Orientation program which is designed to help inexperienced prospective students better understand the time commitments and rigors of higher education prior to enrollment. After piloting the program for a year, we implemented this policy university wide in November 2010; andBetter aligning our admissions personnel and other employees with our students success, including eliminating all enrollment factors in evaluating the performance and any related compensation adjustments for our admissions personnel effective September 1, 2010. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could materially and adversely affect our business.We believe the 40.3% reduction in University of Phoenix aggregate New Degreed Enrollment in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 is principally due to the change in the evaluation and compensation structure for our admissions personnel, the full implementation of University Orientation, and the changes in our marketing approach. We expect that these initiatives will continue to reduce University of Phoenix net revenues, operating income and cash flow in fiscal year 2012, and potentially beyond. However, we believe that many of these efforts are in the best interests of our students and, over the long term, will improve student retention and completion rates, reduce bad debt expense, reduce the risks to our business associated with our regulatory environment, and position us for more stable long term growth.Regulatory EnvironmentRulemaking Initiative. In November 2009, the U.S. Department of Education convened two negotiated rulemaking teams related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. The resulting program integrity rules promulgated in October 2010 and June 2011 address numerous topics. The most significant for our business are the following:Modification of the standards relating to the payment of incentive compensation to employees involved in student recruitment and enrollment;Implementation of standards for state authorization of institutions of higher education;Adoption of a definition of gainful employment for purposes of the requirement of Title IV student financial aid that a program of study offered by a proprietary institution prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation; andExpansion of the definition of misrepresentation, relating to the Departments authority under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, to suspend or terminate an institutions participation in Title IV programs if the institution engages in substantial misrepresentation of the nature of its educational program, its financial charges, or the employability of graduates, and expansion of the sanctions that the Department may impose for engaging in a substantial misrepresentation.Except for the gainful employment metrics discussed below, most of the rules were effective July 1, 2011. On June 13, 2011, the Department published final regulations, effective July 1, 2012, on the metrics for determining whether an academic program prepares students for gainful employment. The regulations establish three annual, program level metrics: debt repayment rate, debt to discretionary income ratio, and debt to total earnings ratio. If an academic program fails all three metrics in a year, the institution must disclose the amount by which the program missed the minimum acceptable performance and the institutions plan to improve the program. If an academic program fails all three metrics in two out of three years, the institution must inform students in the failing program that their debts may be unaffordable and the program may lose eligibility, and 59Table of Contentsmust describe for students their available transfer options. If an academic program fails all three metrics in three out of four years, the academic program would become ineligible to participate in federal student financial aid programs for at least three years. We believe substantially all of our academic programs currently prepare students for gainful employment measured in the manner set forth in the final gainful employment regulations for purposes of continued eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs.The program integrity rules require a large number of reporting and operational changes. We believe we have substantially complied with the new reporting and disclosure requirements that were effective July 1, 2011, and we expect to be in substantial compliance with the remaining requirements by the respective effective dates. However, because of the scale and complexity of our educational programs, we may be unable to fully develop, test and implement all of the necessary modifications to our information management systems and administrative processes by the required dates. We may be subject to administrative or other sanctions if we are unable to comply with these reporting and disclosure requirements on a timely basis. In addition, these changes, individually or in combination, may impact our student enrollment, persistence and retention in ways that we cannot now predict and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Part I, Item IA, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could materially and adversely affect our business.On May 5, 2011, the Department announced its intention to establish additional negotiated rulemaking committees to prepare proposed regulations under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized. Three public hearings were conducted in May 2011 at which interested parties suggested issues that should be considered for action by the negotiating committees. The Department also conducted roundtable discussions to inform policy in the areas of teacher preparation and college completion. More information can be found at http://www2.ed.gov/policy/highered/reg/hearulemaking/2011/index.html.On September 27, 2011, the Department published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to amend the regulations for institutional eligibility under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, and to streamline the application and approval process for new programs, as required by the October 2010 rules on gainful employment. After the public comment period ends on November 14, 2011, the Department will review and consider responses to the NPRM before publishing final regulations that would be effective by July 2013.U.S. Congressional Hearings. Beginning last year, there has been increased focus by members of the U.S. Congress on the role that proprietary educational institutions play in higher education. In June 2010, the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP Committee) held the first in a series of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector. At a subsequent hearing in August 2010, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) presented a report of its review of various aspects of the proprietary sector, including recruitment practices and the degree to which proprietary institutions revenue is composed of Title IV funding. Following the August hearing, Sen. Tom Harkin, the Chairman of the HELP Committee, requested a broad range of detailed information from 30 proprietary institutions, including University of Phoenix and other subsidiaries of Apollo Group. We have been and intend to continue being responsive to the requests of the HELP Committee. Sen. Harkin has held subsequent hearings and roundtable discussions, most recently on July 21, 2011, and we believe that future hearings may be held. On September 22, 2011, Sen. Tom Carper, the Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management, Government Information, Federal Services and International Security, held a hearing on Improving Educational Outcomes for Our Military and Veterans, focusing on the quality of education for the military and veterans population and the treatment of such funding for purposes of the 90/10 Rule calculation that, if enacted, would adversely impact our 90/10 Rule percentage. Sen. Carper suggested a follow up roundtable discussion. In addition, other Congressional hearings or roundtable discussions are expected to be held regarding various aspects of the education industry that may affect our business. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our student population and increase our costs of operation.90/10 Rule. One requirement of the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, commonly referred to as the 90/10 Rule, applies to proprietary institutions such as University of Phoenix and Western International University. Under this rule, a proprietary institution will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs if for any two consecutive fiscal years it derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue, as defined in the rule, from Title IV programs. An institution that exceeds this limit for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by the U.S. Department of Education. While the Department has broad discretion to impose additional sanctions on such an institution, there is only limited precedent available to 60Table of Contentspredict what those sanctions might be, particularly in the current regulatory environment. The Department could specify a wide range of additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institutions continued participation in Title IV programs. These conditions may include, among other things, restrictions on the total amount of Title IV program funds that may be distributed to students attending the institution; restrictions on programmatic and geographic expansion; requirements to obtain and post letters of credit; and additional reporting requirements to include additional interim financial reporting. Should an institution be subject to such provisional certification at the time that its program participation agreement expired, the effect on recertification of the institution or continued eligibility to participate in Title IV programs pending recertification is uncertain. The University of Phoenix 90/10 Rule percentage for fiscal year 2011 was 86%, which represented a 200 basis point decrease compared to fiscal year 2010. We believe the decrease is primarily attributable to the reduction in the proportion of our students who are enrolled in our associates degree programs, which historically have had a higher percentage of Title IV funds applied to eligible tuition and fees. We have also implemented in recent years various measures intended to reduce the percentage of University of Phoenixs cash basis revenue attributable to Title IV funds, including emphasizing employer paid and other direct pay education programs, encouraging students to carefully evaluate the amount of necessary Title IV borrowing, and continued focus on professional development and continuing education programs. Although we believe these measures will favorably impact the 90/10 Rule percentage, they have had only limited impact to date. We have substantially no control over the amount of Title IV student loans and grants sought by or awarded to our students.Based on our most recent trends, we do not expect the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix to exceed 90% for fiscal year 2012. However, the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix remains near 90% and could exceed 90% in the future depending on the degree to which our various initiatives are effective, the impact of future changes in our enrollment mix, and regulatory and other factors outside our control, including any reduction in government tuition assistance for military personnel, including veterans, or changes in the treatment of such funding for purposes of the 90/10 Rule calculation.Any necessary further efforts to reduce the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix, especially if the percentage exceeds 90% for a fiscal year, may involve taking measures which reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, or both, in each case perhaps significantly. In addition, we may be required to make structural changes to our business in the future in order to remain in compliance, which changes may materially alter the manner in which we conduct our business and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, these required changes could make more difficult our ability to comply with other important regulatory requirements, such as the cohort default rate regulations, which is discussed below. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Our schools and programs would lose their eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs is too high, in which event we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted.Student Loan Cohort Default Rates. To remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs, an educational institutions student loan cohort default rates must remain below certain specified levels. Each cohort is the group of students who first enter into student loan repayment during a federal fiscal year (ending September 30). The currently applicable cohort default rate for each cohort is the percentage of the students in the cohort who default on their student loans prior to the end of the following federal fiscal year, which represents a two year measuring period. An educational institution will lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its student loan cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% for three consecutive cohorts or 40% for any given cohort. If our student loan default rates approach these limits, we may be required to increase efforts and resources dedicated to improving these default rates. For University of Phoenix, the 2009 cohort default rate was 18.8%. We believe the University of Phoenix cohort default rate has been increasing over the past several years due to the challenging economic climate, the growth in our associates degree student population and changes in the manner in which student loans are serviced. Although we expect that the challenging economic environment will continue to put pressure on our student borrowers, we believe that our ongoing efforts to shift our student mix to a higher proportion of bachelor and graduate level students, the full implementation of our University Orientation program in November 2010 and our investment in student protection initiatives and repayment management services will help to stabilize and over time favorably impact our rates. Based on the available preliminary data, we do not expect the University of Phoenix or Western International University 2010 two year cohort default rates to exceed 25%. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate An increase in our student loan default rates could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which 61Table of Contentswould materially and adversely affect our business.Federal and State Financial Aid Funding. In April 2011, President Obama signed the fiscal year 2011 spending bill, also known as the Continuing Resolution, which permanently eliminated year round Pell Grant awards beginning with the 2011 2012 award year. The Continuing Resolution maintains the $5,550 maximum annual Pell Grant for the 2011 2012 award year. However, because the federal Pell Grant program is one of the largest non defense discretionary spending programs in the federal budget, it is a target for reduction as Congress addresses the budget deficit. A reduction in the maximum annual Pell Grant amount or changes in eligibility could result in increased student borrowing, which would make it more difficult for us to comply with other important regulatory requirements, and could negatively impact enrollment. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, whether through across the board funding reductions, sequestration or otherwise, or materially impacts the eligibility of our institutions or students to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, a reduction in government tuition assistance for military personnel, including veterans, or a change in the way such funding is treated for purposes of the 90/10 Rule may adversely impact our 90/10 Rule percentage, and may negatively impact enrollment. In addition to possible reductions in federal student financial aid, economic uncertainty over recent years has reduced the availability of state funded student financial aid as many states face historic budget shortfalls. These reductions may reduce our enrollment and, to the extent that Title IV funds replace any state funding sources for our students, may adversely impact our 90/10 Rule percentage. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs could reduce our student population and increase our costs of operation and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students, which could reduce our enrollment and adversely affect our 90/10 Rule percentage.Higher Learning Commission (HLC). In August 2010, University of Phoenix received a letter from HLC requiring University of Phoenix to provide certain information and evidence of compliance with HLC accreditation standards. The letter related to the August 2010 report published by the GAO of its undercover investigation into the enrollment and recruiting practices of a number of proprietary institutions of higher education, including University of Phoenix. We submitted the response to HLC in September 2010 and subsequently responded to further requests for information. In July 2011, HLC informed University of Phoenix that the Special Committee formed to review this matter had completed its work, concluding that based on its limited review, it found no apparent evidence of systematic misrepresentations to students or that University of Phoenixs procedures in the areas of recruiting, financial aid and admissions are significantly inadequate or inappropriate. These were the areas on which HLCs review was focused. HLC also stated that there remain significant questions as well as areas that University of Phoenix should work on improving. HLC indicated that these will be reviewed by the comprehensive evaluation team at its previously scheduled visit beginning in March 2012, which is its next comprehensive evaluation visit. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the U.S. Department of Education, we could lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs, which would materially and adversely affect our business.Intelligently Expand Access into New Markets. We believe we can capitalize on opportunities to utilize our core expertise and organizational capabilities, both domestically and internationally. In particular, we have observed a growing demand for high quality postsecondary and other education services outside of the U.S. We intend to actively pursue quality opportunities to partner with or acquire existing institutions of higher learning where we believe we can achieve attractive long term growth and value creation.For a more detailed discussion of our business, industry and risks, refer to Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors.Fiscal Year 2011 Significant EventsIn addition to the items mentioned above, we experienced the following significant events during the fiscal year 2011:1.University of Phoenix Academic Annual Report. In December 2010, University of Phoenix published its third Academic Annual Report which contains a variety of comparative performance measures related to student outcomes and university initiatives related to quality and accountability.2.University of Phoenix Program Review. In February 2011, University of Phoenix received an Expedited Final Program Review Determination Letter from the Department in respect of the Departments December 2010 62Table of Contentsprogram review. There were no significant adverse findings. The Department concluded that University of Phoenix has initiated or completed acceptable corrective actions in respect of each compliance item identified in the review and each finding had been closed. No economic or other sanctions were imposed. Additionally, the Department released our $126 million letter of credit during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 previously posted in connection with our February 2009 program review. 3.Changes in Directors. The following changes in directors have occurred during fiscal year 2011: During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, Stephen J. Giusto resigned from the Board of Directors in connection with his acceptance of employment with Apollo in a senior management position to manage, expand and grow Apollos educational services offerings; During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, James R. Reis ceased to serve as a director of Apollo when his term expired upon the annual meeting of our Class B shareholders;During the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, Darby Shupp was appointed to our Board of Directors; andDuring the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, Robert S. Murley was appointed to our Board of Directors. 4.BPP Goodwill and Other Intangibles Impairment. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded impairment charges of BPPs goodwill and other intangibles totaling $219.9 million. Refer to Note 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.5.Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). In January 2008, a jury returned an adverse verdict against us and two remaining individual co defendants in a securities class action lawsuit entitled, In re Apollo Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case No. CV04 2147 PHX JAT, filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona, relating to alleged false and misleading statements in connection with our failure to publicly disclose the contents of a preliminary U.S. Department of Education program review report. After various post trial challenges, the case was returned to the trial court in March 2011 to administer the shareholder claims process. In September 2011, we entered into an agreement in principle with the plaintiffs to settle the litigation for a payment of $145.0 million. The outcome of this legal proceeding remains uncertain including, but not limited to, the requirement that any settlement agreement must be approved by the court. Refer to Note 20, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.6.Sale Leaseback. On March 24, 2011, we entered into an agreement to sell our principal office buildings in Phoenix, Arizona plus the related land and parking facilities comprising approximately 600,000 square feet of office space for $169 million net of transaction fees. Pursuant to the agreement, we have simultaneously leased back the facilities for an initial term of 20 years, with four five year renewal options. We are required to pay rent of $12 million for the initial year, which is increased 2% per year until the end of the initial lease term. We generated a gain on sale of $27.5 million, which has been deferred and is being recognized on a straight line basis over the initial lease term. Based on the terms of the agreement, we have classified and are accounting for the lease as an operating lease. The classification as an operating lease required judgment and estimates in developing key assumptions that include, but are not limited to, the lease term, the discount rate used in discounting future lease payments and the economic useful life of the asset.7.Apollo Global Change in Management. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, Timothy F. Daniels was hired to serve as President of Apollo Global, succeeding Jeff Langenbach who accepted a new assignment with Apollo Group as both Chief of Staff for the Office of the CEO and Chief Administration Officer.8.Restructuring and Other Charges. During fiscal year 2011, we recorded restructuring and other charges totaling $22.9 million associated with a real estate rationalization plan and a strategic reduction in force. These initiatives were designed to streamline our operations and better align our operations with our business strategy, refined business model and outlook. Refer to Note 4, Restructuring and Other Charges, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.9.Arizona Department of Revenue. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we executed a Closing Agreement with the Arizona Department of Revenue to settle a matter regarding apportionment of our income for state income tax purposes. Based on the settlement, we have foregone our refund claims of $51.5 million, paid or will pay $59.8 million, and realized a $43.3 million benefit. Refer to Note 15, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. 10.Carnegie Learning, Inc. Acquisition. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we entered into an agreement to acquire all of the stock of Carnegie Learning, Inc., a publisher of research based math curricula and adaptive 63Table of Contentslearning for $75 million. In a separate transaction, we entered into an agreement to acquire related technology from Carnegie Mellon University for $21.5 million, payable over a 10 year period. These acquisitions were completed on September 12, 2011. The acquisitions allow us to accelerate our efforts to incorporate adaptive learning into our academic platform and to provide tools to help raise student achievement in mathematics, which supports improved retention and graduation rates. Given our postsecondary focus, we intend to evaluate strategic alternatives for the K 12 portion of the business in order to support Carnegie Learnings continued success in this market.Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesOur consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our critical accounting policies involve a higher degree of judgments, estimates and complexity, and are detailed below.Revenue RecognitionOur educational programs, primarily composed of University of Phoenix programs, are designed to range in length from one day seminars to degree programs lasting up to four years. Students in University of Phoenix degree programs generally enroll in a program of study encompassing a series of five to nine week courses taken consecutively over the length of the program. Generally, students are billed on a course by course basis when the student first attends a session, resulting in the recording of a receivable from the student and deferred revenue in the amount of the billing. University of Phoenix students generally fund their education through loans and or grants under various Title IV programs, tuition assistance from their employers, or personal funds.Net revenue consists principally of tuition and fees associated with different educational programs as well as related educational resources such as access to online materials, books, and study texts. Net revenue is shown net of discounts. Tuition benefits for our employees and their eligible dependents are included in net revenue and instructional and student advisory costs. Total employee tuition benefits were $97.0 million, $100.3 million and $90.5 million for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.The following table presents the components of our net revenue, and each component as a percentage of total net revenue, for the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009: Year Ended August 31,($ in thousands)2011 2010 2009Tuition and educational services revenue$4,570,983 96 % $4,757,918 97 % $3,815,014 96 %Educational materials revenue320,780 7 % 324,951 6 % 226,388 6 %Services revenue76,500 2 % 84,185 2 % 83,238 2 %Other revenue23,139 % 22,414 % 28,249 1 %Gross Revenue4,991,402 105 % 5,189,468 105 % 4,152,889 105 %Less: Discounts(258,380) (5)% (263,649) (5)% (199,323) (5)%Net revenue$4,733,022 100 % $4,925,819 100 % $3,953,566 100 %Tuition and educational services revenue encompasses both online and on campus classroom based learning. For our University of Phoenix operations, tuition revenue is recognized pro rata over the period of instruction as services are delivered to students.BPP recognizes tuition revenue as services are provided over the course of the program, which varies depending on the program structure. For our remaining Apollo Global operations, tuition revenue is generally recognized over the length of the course and or program as applicable.Educational materials revenue relates to online course materials delivered to students over the period of instruction. Revenue associated with these materials is recognized pro rata over the period of the related course to correspond with delivery of the materials to students. Educational materials also includes the sale of various books, study texts, course notes, and CDs for which we recognize revenue when the materials have been delivered to and accepted by students or other customers.Services revenue represents net revenue generated by IPD, which provides program development, administration and 64Table of Contentsmanagement consulting services to private colleges and universities (Client Institutions) to establish or expand their programs for working learners. These services typically include degree program design, curriculum development, market research, certain student admissions services, accounting, and administrative services. Prior to July 1, 2011, IPD was typically paid a portion of the tuition revenue generated from these programs, and the portion of service revenue to which IPD was entitled under the terms of the contract was recognized as the services were provided. Under new U.S. Department of Education regulations, subsequent to July 1, 2011, IPDs revenue is generated based on fixed fee contracts with Client Institutions and is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract as the services are provided. The term for these fixed fee contracts range from one to five years with provisions for renewal thereafter.Other revenue consists of the fees students pay when submitting an enrollment application, which, along with the related application costs associated with processing the applications, are deferred and recognized over the average length of time a student remains enrolled in a program of study. Other revenue also includes non tuition generating revenues, such as renting classroom space and other student support services. Revenue from these sources is recognized as the services are provided.Discounts reflect reductions in charges for tuition or other fees from our standard rates and include military, corporate, and other employer discounts, along with institutional scholarships, grants and promotions.University of Phoenixs refund policy permits students who attend 60% or less of a course to be eligible for a refund for the portion of the course they did not attend. Refunds result in a reduction in deferred revenue during the period that a student drops or withdraws from a class because associated tuition revenue is recognized pro rata over the period of instruction as the services are delivered. This refund policy applies to students in most, but not all states, as some states require different policies. Generally, net revenue varies from period to period based on several factors, including the aggregate number of students attending classes, the number of classes held during the period, and the tuition price per credit. Sales tax collected from students is excluded from net revenue. Collected but unremitted sales tax is included as a liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and is not material to our consolidated financial statements.Allowance for Doubtful AccountsWe reduce accounts receivable by an allowance for amounts that we expect to become uncollectible in the future. Estimates are used in determining the allowance for doubtful accounts and are based on historical collection experience and current trends. In determining these amounts, we consider and evaluate the historical write offs of our receivables. We monitor our collections and write off experience to assess whether adjustments are necessary.When a student with Title IV loans withdraws, Title IV rules determine if we are required to return a portion of Title IV funds to the lenders. We are then entitled to collect these funds from the students, but collection rates for these types of receivables is significantly lower than our collection rates for receivables for students who remain in our educational programs.We routinely evaluate our estimation methodology for adequacy and modify it as necessary. In doing so, our objective is to cause our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the amount of receivables that will become uncollectible by considering our most recent collections experience, changes in trends and other relevant facts. In doing so, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts reflects the most recent collections experience and is responsive to changes in trends. Our accounts receivable are written off once the account is deemed to be uncollectible, which typically occurs after outside collection agencies have pursued collection for approximately six months.We recorded bad debt expense of $181.3 million, $282.6 million and $151.0 million during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our allowance for doubtful accounts was $128.9 million and $192.9 million as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the purpose of sensitivity, a one percent change in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of gross student receivables as of August 31, 2011 would have resulted in a pre tax change in income of $3.2 million. Additionally, if our bad debt expense were to change by one percent of total net revenue for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011, we would have recorded a pre tax change in income of approximately $47.3 million.Goodwill and Intangible AssetsGoodwill and Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the amount assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. At the time of an acquisition, we allocate the goodwill and related assets and liabilities to our respective reporting units. We identify our reporting units by assessing whether the components of our operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of those components.65Table of ContentsIndefinite lived intangible assets are recorded at fair market value on their acquisition date and primarily include trademarks and foreign regulatory accreditations and designations as a result of the BPP, UNIACC and ULA acquisitions. We assign indefinite lives to acquired trademarks, accreditations and designations that we believe have the continued ability to generate cash flows indefinitely; have no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors limiting the useful life of the respective intangible asset; and when we intend to renew the respective trademark, accreditation or designation and renewal can be accomplished at little cost.We assess goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the respective reporting unit below its carrying amount. Goodwill We test for goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level by applying a two step test. In the first step, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value of its net assets. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, we perform a second step which involves using a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the goodwill. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount of the goodwill. Effective September 1, 2011, we early adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011 08, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment, which allows, but does not require, us to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two step quantitative goodwill impairment test discussed above. Refer to Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Indefinite lived intangible assets The annual impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We perform our annual indefinite lived intangible asset impairment tests on the same dates that we perform our annual goodwill impairment tests for the respective reporting units.Our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets by reportable segment are summarized in the table below:($ in thousands)AnnualImpairment Test Date Goodwill as of August 31, Indefinite livedIntangibles as of August 31,2011 20102011 2010University of PhoenixMay 31 $37,018 $37,018 $ $Apollo Global BPP(1)July 1 50,694 241,204 97,662 114,330Apollo Global Other UNIACCMay 31 13,103 12,132 5,311 4,919ULA(1)May 31 15,591 14,914 2,504 2,395Western International UniversityMay 31 1,581 1,581 Other Schools CFFPAugust 31 15,310 15,310 (1) We recorded impairment charges during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 for BPPs goodwill and other intangible assets of $197.7 million and $22.2 million, respectively. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded impairment charges of $156.3 million and $19.6 million for BPPs goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively, and an $8.7 million impairment charge for ULAs goodwill.The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis, including identification of our reporting units, identification and allocation of assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units and determination of fair value of our reporting units. Our goodwill testing process includes the use of industry accepted valuation methods, involvement of various levels of management in different operating functions to review and approve certain criteria and assumptions and, in certain instances, engaging third party valuation specialists to assist with our analysis.To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we primarily use an income based approach consisting of a discounted cash flow valuation method. We also consider a market based approach or a combination of both 66Table of Contentsmethods. The discounted cash flow valuation method consists of projecting future cash flows for a reporting unit, which may include developing one or multiple sets of cash flow scenarios and applying a reasonable weighting to those scenarios, calculating a terminal value, and discounting such cash flows by a risk adjusted rate of return. Generally, the market based approach incorporates information from comparable transactions in the market and publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics of the reporting unit to develop a multiple which is then applied to the operating performance of the reporting unit to determine value. The determination of fair value of our reporting units consists primarily of using unobservable inputs under the fair value measurement standards.We believe the most critical assumptions and estimates in determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units, include, but are not limited to, the amounts and timing of expected future cash flows for each reporting unit, the probability weightings assigned to cash flow scenarios, the discount rate applied to those cash flows, terminal growth rates, selection of comparable market multiples and applying weighting factors when a combination of valuation methods is used. The assumptions used in determining our expected future cash flows consider various factors such as historical operating trends particularly in student enrollment and pricing, the political environment the reporting unit operates in, anticipated economic and regulatory conditions and reasonable expectations for planned business, and operating strategies and initiatives over a long term planning horizon. The discount rate used by each reporting unit is based on our assumption of a prudent investors required rate of return of assuming the risk of investing in a particular company in a specific country. The terminal growth rate reflects the sustainable operating income a reporting unit could generate in a perpetual state as a function of revenue growth, inflation and future margin expectations. We also believe the assumptions used in our goodwill impairment tests are consistent with a reasonable market participant view while employing the concept of highest and best use of the asset. If we determine our critical assumptions discussed above require revision or are adversely impacted, a potential goodwill impairment may result in the future.To determine the fair value of our trademark intangible assets we use the relief from royalty method. This method estimates the benefit of owning the intangible assets rather than paying royalties for the right to use a comparable asset. This method incorporates the use of significant judgments in determining both the projected revenues attributable to the asset, as well as the appropriate discount rate and royalty rates applied to those revenues to determine fair value. To fair value the accreditations and designations intangible assets, we primarily use the cost savings method which estimates the cost savings of owning the intangible asset rather than either creating the asset or not having the asset in place to be used in current operations. This method incorporates the use of significant judgments in determining the projected profit or replacement cost attributable to the asset and the appropriate discount rate. The determination of fair value of our indefinite lived intangible assets consists primarily of using unobservable inputs under the fair value measurement standards.During fiscal year 2011, we completed our annual goodwill impairment tests for each of our reporting units and our annual indefinite lived intangible asset impairment tests, as applicable. For our BPP reporting unit, we were required to perform an interim goodwill impairment test in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, which resulted in recognizing goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges, as further discussed below. We did not record any impairment charges associated with our other reporting units as the estimated fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded the carrying value of their respective net assets as of their annual impairment test date. The excess as a percentage of fair value for University of Phoenix, UNIACC, Western International University and CFFP was at least 25%, and the excess for ULA was approximately 16% as of their respective annual impairment test dates. To determine the fair value for our University of Phoenix and Western International University reporting units, we used market multiple information and recent transaction data, if applicable, of comparable sized companies. For our CFFP reporting unit, we determined fair value using the discounted cash flow valuation method utilizing a 14.0% discount rate and 3% terminal growth rate. For our UNIACC and ULA reporting units, we determined fair value by using a combination of the discounted cash flow valuation method and the market based approach, to which we applied weighting factors of 80% and 20%, respectively. Specifically, for our UNIACC and ULA reporting units, the key assumptions used in our analysis include the following:Projected net revenue growth at UNIACC through its established online and working learner educational programs, and projected net revenue growth at ULA through its working learner educational programs offered through a blend of on campus and online modalities. If the projected revenue growth from these programs does not materialize, we may be required in the future to record impairment charges for our goodwill and intangible assets.Discount rates for UNIACC and ULA of 15.5% and 16.5%, respectively, and a terminal growth rate of 5% for both reporting units. For sensitivity purposes, a 100 basis point change in either of these assumptions 67Table of Contentswould not have resulted in the carrying value exceeding the fair value for either reporting unit as of their May 31, 2011 annual impairment test date.Our UNIACC and ULA reporting units also have indefinite lived intangible assets consisting of trademarks and accreditations totaling $7.8 million as of August 31, 2011. We performed a fair value analysis of these indefinite lived intangible assets as of the May 31, 2011 annual impairment test date and determined there was no impairment.BPP Reporting UnitDuring the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, BPP experienced lower than expected rates of enrollment for its accounting and finance professional training programs. As a result, we revised our outlook for BPP and reduced forecasted revenues and operating cash flows for the remainder of fiscal year 2011.The majority of students take multiple years to complete these programs and, as a result, the lower than expected rates of enrollment in these programs are expected to negatively impact revenue growth for the next couple of years. In addition, we also reduced our forecasts for future years from what we had previously anticipated, as we now believe that we will likely experience further near term declines. Currently, accounting and finance professional training programs account for approximately one half of BPPs revenues and a significant portion of BPPs operating cash flows. For these reasons, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis for BPP in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011.To determine the fair value of our BPP reporting unit in our interim step one analysis, we used a combination of the discounted cash flow valuation method and the market based approach and applied weighting factors of 80% and 20%, respectively. We used assumptions in our interim step one analysis to reflect what we believe to be a reasonable market participants view of the increased uncertainty in the broader market conditions impacting BPP. Specifically, the key assumptions used in our revised cash flow estimates include the following:the markets in which BPPs professional training programs operate in will experience further declines in the near term, and a recovery in the market for such programs will take longer than previously expected,decreased our pricing assumptions for degree programs at BPPs University college, given the emerging competitive landscape and the implementation of the U.K. governments review of funding for higher education, anda significant increase in revenues over a long term horizon at BPPs University College, anda 13.5% discount rate and 3.0% terminal growth rate.Incorporating these assumptions into our interim step one goodwill impairment analysis resulted in a lower estimated fair value for the BPP reporting unit as compared to its carrying value. This was the second time that we had received new information that has caused us to revise our forecasts for BPP and record impairment charges, as we recorded goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges of $175.9 million in fiscal year 2010. See Note 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion.Accordingly, we performed an interim step two analysis which required us to fair value BPPs assets and liabilities, including identifiable intangible assets, using the fair value derived from the interim step one analysis as the purchase price in a hypothetical acquisition of the BPP reporting unit. The significant hypothetical purchase price adjustments included in the step two analysis consisted of:Adjusting the carrying value of land and buildings included in property and equipment to estimated fair value using the market approach and based on appraisals.Adjusting the carrying value of the trademark and accreditations and designation indefinite lived intangible assets to estimated fair value using the valuation methods discussed above. Our interim impairment tests for these indefinite lived intangible assets utilized the same assumptions used in the BPP reporting unit goodwill impairment analysis which resulted in a lower fair value estimate for BPPs trademark. Adjusting all other finite lived intangible assets to estimated fair value using a variety of methods under the income approach. As a result of this analysis, we determined that all significant finite lived intangible assets were not impaired in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011.Based on our analysis, we recorded impairment charges during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 for BPPs goodwill and trademark of $197.7 million and $22.2 million, respectively. As BPPs goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes, we did not record a tax benefit associated with the goodwill impairment charge. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, BPPs goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges in the aggregate approximate $213.9 68Table of Contentsmillion (net of $6.0 million benefit for income taxes associated with the other intangibles impairment charge). In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we performed our annual goodwill impairment for BPP. There have been no significant changes within BPP or the U.K. that we believe would have a meaningful impact on our cash flow estimates and other significant assumptions used in the interim impairment test performed in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 discussed above. Accordingly, for the purpose of performing the annual goodwill impairment as of July 1, 2011, we utilized a similar valuation methodology and underlying assumptions. BPPs goodwill was determined to not be impaired and the excess as a percentage of fair value was approximately 23%. Additionally, we completed our annual impairment tests for the indefinite lived assets at BPP and determined there was no impairment. Although our projections used in both our interim and annual goodwill impairment tests assume that the markets in which BPP operates will ultimately stabilize, we may be required to record additional impairment charges for BPPs remaining goodwill and other intangibles balances of $50.7 million and $110.4 million, respectively, if there are further deteriorations in these markets, if economic conditions in the U.K. further decline, or we are unable to achieve the projected growth in future enrollment and related revenue at BPPs University College.Finite Lived Intangible Assets Finite lived intangible assets that are acquired in business combinations are recorded at fair market value on their acquisition date and are amortized on either a straight line basis or using an accelerated method to reflect the pattern in which the economic benefits of the asset are consumed. The weighted average useful life of our finite lived intangible assets that are not fully amortized as of August 31, 2011 is 5.2 years.At August 31, 2011 and 2010, our finite lived intangible asset balances were $15.6 million and $28.9 million, respectively.Other Long Lived Asset ImpairmentsWe evaluate the carrying amount of our major other long lived assets, including property and equipment and finite lived intangible assets, whenever changes in circumstances or events indicate that the value of such assets may not be fully recoverable. Excluding the impairment charges discussed in Note 4, Restructuring and Other Charges, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we did not recognize any impairment charges for our other long lived assets during fiscal years 2011 and 2010. At August 31, 2011, we believe the carrying amounts of our remaining other long lived assets are fully recoverable and no impairment exists.Loss ContingenciesWe are subject to various claims and contingencies which are in the scope of ordinary and routine litigation incidental to our business, including those related to regulation, litigation, business transactions, employee related matters and taxes, among others. When we become aware of a claim or potential claim, the likelihood of any loss or exposure is assessed. If it is probable that a loss will result and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the loss. The liability recorded includes probable and estimable legal costs incurred to date and future legal costs to the point in the legal matter where we believe a conclusion to the matter will be reached. If the loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose the claim if the likelihood of a potential loss is reasonably possible and the amount of the potential loss could be material. For matters where no loss contingency is recorded, our policy is to expense legal fees as incurred. The assessment of the likelihood of a potential loss and the estimation of the amount of a loss are subjective and require judgment.Accounting for Income TaxesThe objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the new rate is enacted. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized.The determination of our uncertain tax positions requires us to make significant judgments. We evaluate and account for uncertain tax positions using a two step approach. Recognition (step one) occurs when we conclude that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. Measurement (step two) determines the amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Derecognition of a tax position that was previously recognized would occur when we subsequently determine that a tax position no longer meets the more likely than not threshold of being sustained. We do not use a valuation allowance as a substitute for derecognition of tax positions. Our total unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest 69Table of Contentsand penalties, were $25.8 million and $166.0 million as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in our unrecognized tax benefits from August 31, 2010 is principally due to resolution regarding the apportionment of income for state income tax purposes. Refer to Note 15, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.Share Based CompensationWe measure and recognize compensation expense for all share based awards issued to faculty, employees and directors based on estimated fair values of the share awards on the date of grant. We record compensation expense, net of forfeitures, for all share based awards over the requisite service period using the straight line method for awards with only a service condition, and the graded vesting attribution method for awards with service and performance conditions.We calculate the fair value of share based awards on the date of grant. For stock options, we typically use the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model to estimate fair value. The Black Scholes Merton option pricing model requires us to estimate key assumptions such as expected term, volatility, risk free interest rates and dividend yield to determine the fair value of stock options, based on both historical information and management judgment regarding market factors and trends. The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding. Prior to fiscal year 2011, we generally used the simplified mid point method to estimate the expected term of stock options based on our determination that the terms and exercise behavior of our stock options had changed significantly in recent periods, causing our historical exercise data to not be reflective of our expectations of future exercise behavior. The simplified method uses the mid point between the vesting and contractual terms of the stock options. During fiscal year 2011, we estimated the expected term of our stock options granted based primarily on the vesting period of the awards and historical exercise behavior, which did not result in a significant change in our expected term assumption compared to prior years. For share based awards with performance conditions, such as our Performance Share Awards described in Note 18, Stock and Savings Plans, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we measure the fair value of such awards as of the date of grant and amortize share based compensation expense for our estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. Our estimate of the number of shares that will vest is based on our determination of the probable outcome of the performance condition, which requires considerable judgment. We record a cumulative adjustment to share based compensation expense in periods that we change our estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. Additionally, we ultimately adjust the expense recognized to reflect the actual vested shares following the resolution of the performance conditions.We estimate expected forfeitures of share based awards at the grant date and recognize compensation cost only for those awards expected to vest. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on several factors including historical forfeiture activity, expected future employee turnover, and other qualitative factors. We ultimately adjust this forfeiture assumption to actual forfeitures. Therefore, changes in the forfeiture assumptions do not impact the total amount of expense ultimately recognized over the requisite service period. Rather, different forfeiture assumptions only impact the timing of expense recognition over the requisite service period. If the actual forfeitures differ from management estimates, additional adjustments to compensation expense are recorded.We used the following weighted average assumptions in the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model for stock options granted in the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31, 2011 2010 2009Weighted average fair value$16.71 $17.30 $27.32Expected volatility46.8% 48.6% 47.7%Expected life (years)4.2 4.2 4.2Risk free interest rate1.4% 1.5% 2.2%Dividend yield0.0% 0.0% 0.0%70Table of ContentsThe assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value of the stock option grants and therefore, share based compensation expense, are the expected life and expected volatility. The following table illustrates how changes to these assumptions would affect the weighted average fair value per option as of the grant date for the 650,000 options granted during fiscal year 2011: Expected VolatilityExpected Life (Years)42.1% 46.8% 51.5%3.7$14.30 $15.72 $17.074.215.26 16.71 18.124.716.12 17.63 19.10Recent Accounting PronouncementsPlease refer to Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for recent accounting pronouncements.Results of OperationsWe have included below a discussion of our operating results and significant items explaining the material changes in our operating results during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009.As discussed in the Overview of this MD&A, our initiatives to enhance the student experience and outcomes and maintain compliance with new regulatory requirements have adversely impacted our fiscal year 2011 net revenue, operating income, and cash flow, as well as University of Phoenix New Degreed Enrollment and Degreed Enrollment. However, we believe that many of these efforts are in the best interests of our students and, over the long term, will improve student persistence and completion rates and therefore reduce bad debt expense, reduce our risk associated with our regulatory environment, and position us for more stable long term growth.Our operations are generally subject to seasonal trends. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our results of operations as a result of seasonal variations in the level of our institutions enrollments. Although University of Phoenix enrolls students throughout the year, its net revenue is generally lower in our second fiscal quarter (December through February) than the other quarters due to holiday breaks.Effective during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we revised our presentation of operating expenses and changed our presentation of prior periods to conform to our revised presentation. There were no changes to total operating expenses or operating income as a result of these changes in presentation. Refer to Note 3, Changes in Presentation, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We categorize our operating expenses as follows:Instructional and student advisory consist primarily of costs related to the delivery and administration of our educational programs and include costs related to faculty, student advisory and administrative compensation, classroom and administration lease expenses (including facilities that are shared and support both instructional and admissions functions), financial aid processing costs, costs related to the development of our educational programs and other related costs. Tuition costs for all employees and their eligible family members are recorded as an expense within instructional and student advisory.Marketing the substantial majority of costs consist of advertising expenses, compensation for marketing personnel including personnel responsible for establishing relationships with selected employers, which we refer to as our Workforce Solutions team, and production of marketing materials. The category also includes other costs directly related to marketing functions.Admissions advisory the substantial majority of costs consist of compensation for admissions personnel. The category also includes other costs directly related to admissions advisory functions.General and administrative consist primarily of corporate compensation, occupancy costs, legal and professional fees, and other related costs.Provisions for uncollectible accounts receivable consist of expense charged to reduce our accounts receivable to our estimate of the amount we expect to collect.Depreciation and amortization consist of depreciation expense on our property and equipment and amortization of our finite lived intangible assets.71Table of ContentsFiscal Year 2011 Compared to Fiscal Year 2010 Analysis of Consolidated Statements of IncomeThe table below details our consolidated results of operations. For a more detailed discussion by reportable segment, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment. % of Net Revenue Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, %($ in thousands)2011 2010 2011 2010 ChangeNet revenue4,733,022 4,925,819 100.0 % 100.0 % (3.9)%Costs and expenses: Instructional and student advisory1,774,087 1,733,134 37.5 % 35.2 % 2.4 %Marketing655,362 623,743 13.9 % 12.7 % 5.1 %Admissions advisory415,386 466,358 8.8 % 9.5 % (10.9)%General and administrative355,751 301,116 7.5 % 6.1 % 18.1 %Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable181,297 282,628 3.8 % 5.7 % (35.9)%Depreciation and amortization159,006 145,564 3.4 % 3.0 % 9.2 %Goodwill and other intangibles impairment219,927 184,570 4.6 % 3.7 % *Restructuring and other charges22,913 0.5 % % *Litigation (credit) charge, net(11,951) 177,982 (0.3)% 3.6 % *Total costs and expenses3,771,778 3,915,095 79.7 % 79.5 % (3.7)%Operating income961,244 1,010,724 20.3 % 20.5 % (4.9)%Interest income3,222 2,920 0.1 % 0.1 % 10.3 %Interest expense(8,931) (11,891) (0.2)% (0.3)% 24.9 %Other, net(1,588) (685) % % *Income from continuing operations before income taxes953,947 1,001,068 20.2 % 20.3 % (4.7)%Provision for income taxes(420,638) (464,063) (8.9)% (9.4)% 9.4 %Income from continuing operations533,309 537,005 11.3 % 10.9 % (0.7)%Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax2,487 (15,424) % (0.3)% *Net income535,796 521,581 11.3 % 10.6 % 2.7 %Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests36,631 31,421 0.8 % 0.6 % 16.6 %Net income attributable to Apollo572,427 553,002 12.1 % 11.2 % 3.5 % * not meaningfulNet RevenueOur net revenue decreased $192.8 million, or 3.9%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010. The decrease was primarily attributable to University of Phoenixs 3.9% decrease in net revenue principally due to lower University of Phoenix enrollment, partially offset by selective tuition price and other fee changes. See further discussion of net revenue by reportable segment below at Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment.Instructional and Student AdvisoryInstructional and student advisory increased $41.0 million, or 2.4% in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 230 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in expense was primarily due to various strategic initiatives implemented to more effectively support our students and improve their educational outcomes. These initiatives have increased compensation related to many student advisory and infrastructure support functions, and increased curriculum development and delivery costs. These costs were partially offset by lower faculty costs resulting from lower University of Phoenix and Apollo Global enrollment.MarketingMarketing increased $31.6 million, or 5.1%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 120 basis 72Table of Contentspoint increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in expense was due to higher advertising expenditures resulting from increased investment in non Internet branding, and increased costs associated with our efforts to more effectively identify students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs. Additionally, advertising rates for traditional and online media increased due to more competition in the education sector and increases in advertising rates from improving general media market conditions.Admissions AdvisoryAdmissions advisory decreased $51.0 million, or 10.9%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 70 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue was a result of lower admissions advisory headcount partially attributable to a strategic reduction in force during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. See further discussion at Restructuring and Other Charges below. The decrease in admissions advisory was partially offset by higher average employee compensation costs.General and AdministrativeGeneral and administrative expenses increased $54.6 million, or 18.1%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 140 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase as a percentage of net revenue was primarily attributable to higher employee compensation costs and expenses associated with investment in our information technology resources and capabilities. Provision for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable decreased $101.3 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 190 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease was primarily attributable to the following:reductions in gross accounts receivable principally resulting from decreases in University of Phoenix enrollment;a decrease in the proportion of our receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in associates degree programs. Our collection rates for such students are generally lower compared to students enrolled in bachelors and graduate level programs; andrequiring all students who enroll in University of Phoenix with fewer than 24 credits to first attend University Orientation, which we believe has improved student retention. See Overview in this MD&A for further discussion of University Orientation.Improved collection rates for aged receivables at University of Phoenix also contributed to the decrease. The improved collection rates are in part due to initiatives University of Phoenix is currently implementing to improve its related processes.Depreciation and AmortizationDepreciation and amortization increased $13.4 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 40 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase was primarily due to increased capital expenditures during fiscal years 2011 and 2010 related to information technology, network infrastructure, and software. This was partially offset by a decrease in amortization of BPP intangible assets.Goodwill and Other Intangibles ImpairmentDuring fiscal year 2011, we recorded impairment charges of BPPs goodwill and other intangible assets of $197.7 million and $22.2 million, respectively. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in this MD&A. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded goodwill impairment charges for BPP and ULA of $156.3 million and $8.7 million, respectively. We also recorded a $19.6 million impairment of BPPs other intangibles during fiscal year 2010. 73Table of ContentsRestructuring and Other ChargesWe implemented a strategic reduction in force in November 2010 and a real estate rationalization plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. These initiatives, which are discussed further below, were designed to streamline our operations and better align our operations with our business strategy, refined business model and outlook. The following table details the charges incurred in fiscal year 2011: Charge for Year Ended($ in thousands)August 31, 2011Real estate rationalization Lease obligation costs, net$13,052Real estate rationalization Asset impairments6,015Reduction in force Severance and other benefits3,846Restructuring and other charges$22,913Real Estate Rationalization During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we initiated a plan to rationalize our real estate portfolio in Phoenix, Arizona through space consolidation and reorganization. The plan consists of abandoning all, or a portion of, four leased facilities, all of which are classified as operating leases. As of August 31, 2011, we were not using one of the facilities and we determined will no longer derive a future economic benefit from the facility. Accordingly, we accrued $13.1 million representing the fair value of our future contractual lease obligation under the respective operating lease. We measured the lease obligation at fair value using a discounted cash flow approach encompassing significant unobservable inputs. The estimation of future cash flows includes non cancelable contractual lease costs over the remaining term of the lease, partially offset by estimated future sublease rental income, which involves significant judgment. Our estimate of the amount and timing of sublease rental income considered current commercial real estate market data and conditions, comparable transaction data and qualitative factors specific to the facility. We also wrote off $6.0 million of certain assets, including leasehold improvements, at the facility for which we do not expect a future economic benefit. The lease obligation and asset impairment charges are included in our University of Phoenix reportable segment. With respect to this facility, we estimate we will incur approximately $5 million of additional restructuring costs associated with future accretion of the discounted liability over the remaining lease term. Our estimates of our net lease obligation and future accretion expense could be subject to adjustment as market conditions change or as new information becomes available, including the execution of sublease agreements.We expect to abandon the remaining three facilities in fiscal year 2012 and incur approximately $15 million to $20 million of additional charges associated with initially recognizing the net lease obligations and other costs. The majority of these charges will be recorded on the respective cease use dates for each facility and will be included in our University of Phoenix reportable segment. We expect our rationalization plan will save approximately $10 million to $15 million in annualized operating lease costs for the next several years.Reduction in Force We implemented a strategic reduction in force primarily at University of Phoenix in November 2010 that eliminated approximately 700 full time positions, principally among admissions personnel. In connection with this reduction in force, we incurred a $3.8 million charge consisting of severance and other fringe benefit costs. This charge is included in our University of Phoenix reportable segment and was paid in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011.We began realizing related employee compensation expense reductions of approximately $8 million per quarter beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011.Litigation (Credit) Charge, NetWe recorded a net credit of $16.2 million in fiscal year 2011 principally due to an agreement in principle to settle the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). The outcome of this legal proceeding remains uncertain including, but not limited to, the requirement that any settlement agreement must be approved by the court. This was partially offset by a charge in fiscal year 2011 of an immaterial amount associated with another legal matter. In fiscal year 2010, we recorded $178.0 million of charges associated with the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). See Note 20, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Interest IncomeInterest income was essentially flat in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010.Interest ExpenseInterest expense decreased $3.0 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 primarily due to a decrease in average borrowings at Apollo Globals subsidiaries.74Table of ContentsOther, NetOther, net in fiscal years 2011 and 2010 primarily consists of net foreign currency losses related to our international operations. Provision for Income TaxesOur income tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 was 44.1% compared to 46.4% for fiscal year 2010. The decrease was primarily attributable to the following:Our state effective rate for fiscal year 2011 was 1.8% compared to 6.3% in fiscal year 2010. Prior to fiscal year 2011, our state effective rate was adversely affected by uncertainty related to the apportionment of income for Arizona corporate income tax purposes. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we executed a Closing Agreement with the Arizona Department of Revenue to settle a matter regarding apportionment of our income for state income tax purposes. Based on the settlement, we have foregone our refund claims of $51.5 million, paid or will pay $59.8 million, and realized a $43.3 million benefit. The realized benefit encompassed prior years and fiscal year 2011. The settlement also provides an agreed upon sales factor sourcing methodology through 2020. Our state effective rate for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 would have been approximately 4.7% using an apportionment methodology consistent with our agreement with the Arizona Department of Revenue. See Note 15, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data;A $9.6 million tax benefit recorded in fiscal year 2011 associated with resolution with the Internal Revenue Service regarding the deductibility of payments made to settle a lawsuit in fiscal year 2010; andA $7.3 million tax benefit related to the closure of Meritus in fiscal year 2011.The decrease was partially offset by an $11.4 million tax benefit recorded in fiscal year 2010 associated with our settlement of a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service relating to the deduction of certain stock option compensation on our U.S. federal income tax returns beginning in fiscal year 2003. In addition, while our effective rate in both fiscal year 2011 and 2010 was adversely impacted by the non deductible goodwill impairment charges discussed above, this impact was greater in fiscal year 2011 as a percentage of pre tax book income.Income (loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, relates to our Insight Schools business, which we sold in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Refer to Note 5, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling InterestsThe net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests during fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was primarily due to Apollo Globals noncontrolling shareholders portion of goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges discussed above.75Table of ContentsAnalysis of Operating Results by Reportable SegmentThe table below details our operating results by reportable segment for the periods indicated: Year Ended August 31, $ %($ in thousands)2011 2010 Change ChangeNet revenue University of Phoenix$4,322,670 $4,498,325 $(175,655) (3.9)%Apollo Global: BPP244,181 251,743 (7,562) (3.0)%Other75,800 78,253 (2,453) (3.1)%Total Apollo Global319,981 329,996 (10,015) (3.0)%Other Schools88,517 95,706 (7,189) (7.5)%Corporate(1)1,854 1,792 62 3.5 %Total net revenue$4,733,022 $4,925,819 $(192,797) (3.9)%Operating income (loss) University of Phoenix$1,270,468 $1,447,636 $(177,168) (12.2)%Apollo Global: BPP(224,335) (186,552) (37,783) (20.3)%Other(37,750) (31,147) (6,603) (21.2)%Total Apollo Global(262,085) (217,699) (44,386) (20.4)%Other Schools6,870 9,201 (2,331) (25.3)%Corporate(1)(54,009) (228,414) 174,405 *Total operating income$961,244 $1,010,724 $(49,480) (4.9)% * not meaningful(1) The Corporate caption in our segment reporting includes adjustments to reconcile segment results to consolidated results, which primarily consist of net revenue and corporate charges that are not allocated to our segments. The operating loss for Corporate in fiscal years 2011 and 2010 includes a net credit of $16.2 million and charges of $178.0 million, respectively, associated with the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). See Note 20, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.University of PhoenixThe $175.7 million, or 3.9%, decrease in net revenue in our University of Phoenix segment was primarily attributable to lower enrollments partially offset by selective tuition price and other fee changes implemented July 1, 2010, which varied by geographic area, program, and degree level. In aggregate, these tuition price and other fee changes, including increased discounts to military veterans in selective programs, were generally in the range of 4 6%. In addition, we experienced a favorable mix shift in our Average Degreed Enrollment toward higher degree level programs as detailed below.We also implemented selective tuition price and other fee changes at University of Phoenix depending on geographic area, program, and degree level that became effective July 1, 2011. These tuition price and other fee changes were generally in the range of 3 5%. Future net revenue and operating income will be impacted by these tuition price and other fee changes, along with changes in enrollment, student mix within programs and degree levels, and discounts.76Table of ContentsThe following table details University of Phoenix enrollment for fiscal years 2011 and 2010: Average Degreed Enrollment(1) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment(1),(4) August 31, August 31, % Change Year EndedAugust 31, % Change(rounded to the nearest hundred)2011(2) 2010(3) 2011 2010 Associates163,500 204,200 (19.9)% 90,500 187,700 (51.8)%Bachelors186,000 178,500 4.2 % 94,900 131,300 (27.7)%Masters61,700 70,800 (12.9)% 33,600 49,300 (31.8)%Doctoral7,500 7,400 1.4 % 2,900 3,400 (14.7)%Total418,700 460,900 (9.2)% 221,900 371,700 (40.3)%(1) Refer to item 1, Business, for definitions of Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment. (2) Represents the average of Degreed Enrollment for the quarters ended August 31, 2010, November 30, 2010, February 28, 2011, May 31, 2011 and August 31, 2011. (3) Represents the average of Degreed Enrollment for the quarters ended August 31, 2009, November 30, 2009, February 28, 2010, May 31, 2010 and August 31, 2010. (4) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment represents the sum of the four quarters New Degreed Enrollment in the respective fiscal years. University of Phoenix Average Degreed Enrollment decreased 9.2% in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 primarily due to the 40.3% decrease in aggregate New Degreed Enrollment. We believe the decreases in enrollment are primarily the result of our operational changes and initiatives to more effectively support our students and improve their educational outcomes. These changes and initiatives are principally the following:changes in the evaluation and compensation structure for our admissions personnel and other employees, including eliminating all enrollment factors in evaluating the performance and any related compensation adjustments for our admissions personnel effective September 1, 2010;the full implementation of University Orientation in November 2010; andour efforts to more effectively identify students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs.In addition, we believe that the decline in enrollment was partly the result of increased competition as traditional schools continue to expand their services, including on line degree offerings, to compete for non traditional students, especially working learners, and increased competition in the proprietary sector.We expect that the initiatives detailed above will continue to reduce University of Phoenix net revenue, operating income and cash flow in fiscal year 2012, and potentially beyond. However, we continue to believe that many of these efforts are in the best interest of our students and, over the long term, will improve student retention and completion rates, reduce bad debt expense, reduce the risks to our business associated with the regulatory environment, and position us for more stable long term growth.Operating income in our University of Phoenix segment decreased $177.2 million, or 12.2%, during fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease was primarily attributable to the following:The 3.9% decrease in University of Phoenix net revenue;An increase in expense associated with our various strategic initiatives to more effectively support our students and improve their educational outcomes. These initiatives have increased compensation related to many student advisory and infrastructure support functions, depreciation related to computer equipment and software, and curriculum development and delivery costs;An increase in marketing costs due to higher advertising expenditure resulting from increased investment in non Internet branding, and increased costs associated with our efforts to more effectively identify students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs. Additionally, advertising rates for traditional and online media increased due to more competition in the education sector and increases in advertising rates from improving general media market conditions; and$22.9 million of restructuring and other charges as discussed above. The above factors were partially offset by the following:A decrease in bad debt expense primarily attributable to the following:77Table of Contentsreductions in gross accounts receivable principally resulting from decreases in University of Phoenix enrollment; a decrease in the proportion of our receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in associates degree programs. Our collection rates for such students are generally lower compared to students enrolled in bachelors and graduate level programs; andrequiring all students who enroll in University of Phoenix with fewer than 24 credits to first attend University Orientation, which we believe has improved student retention. See Overview in this MD&A for further discussion of University Orientation;Improved collection rates for aged receivables at University of Phoenix also contributed to the decrease. The improved collection rates are in part due to initiatives University of Phoenix is currently implementing to improve its related processes;Lower headcount in admissions advisory and certain marketing functions partially attributable to a strategic reduction in force implemented during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 that eliminated approximately 700 full time positions, principally among admissions personnel; andLower faculty costs resulting from lower enrollment.Apollo GlobalThe $10.0 million decrease in Apollo Global net revenue during fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 was primarily attributable to BPP. The decrease at BPP was principally due to lower student enrollment.Apollo Globals operating loss in fiscal years 2011 and 2010 included goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges of $219.9 million and $184.6 million, respectively. The increased operating loss was also attributable to the decrease in BPP net revenue and higher marketing costs at the Apollo Global subsidiaries. This was partially offset by a $10.0 million decrease in intangible asset amortization principally at BPP.Other SchoolsThe decrease in Other Schools net revenue and operating income during fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 was principally due to a decrease in the number of Client Institutions serviced by IPD. The decrease in IPDs Client Institutions is in part due to modifications to IPDs business model to comply with new rules related to incentive compensation effective July 1, 2011. See Item 1, Business, for further discussion. The decrease in operating income was partially offset by reduced expenses at Meritus resulting from its closure in fiscal year 2011.78Table of ContentsFiscal Year 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year 2009 Analysis of Consolidated Statements of Income % of Net Revenue Year Ended August 31, Year Ended August 31, %($ in thousands)2010 2009 2010 2009 ChangeNet revenue$4,925,819 $3,953,566 100.0 % 100.0 % 24.6 %Costs and expenses: Instructional and student advisory1,733,134 1,333,919 35.2 % 33.7 % 29.9 %Marketing623,743 497,568 12.7 % 12.6 % 25.4 %Admissions advisory466,358 437,908 9.5 % 11.1 % 6.5 %General and administrative301,116 277,887 6.1 % 7.0 % 8.4 %Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable282,628 151,021 5.7 % 3.8 % 87.1 %Depreciation and amortization145,564 108,828 3.0 % 2.8 % 33.8 %Goodwill and other intangibles impairment184,570 3.7 % % *Litigation charge177,982 80,500 3.6 % 2.0 % *Total costs and expenses3,915,095 2,887,631 79.5 % 73.0 % 35.6 %Operating income1,010,724 1,065,935 20.5 % 27.0 % (5.2)%Interest income2,920 12,591 0.1 % 0.3 % (76.8)%Interest expense(11,891) (4,448) (0.3)% (0.1)% (167.3)%Other, net(685) (7,151) % (0.2)% 90.4 %Income from continuing operations before income taxes1,001,068 1,066,927 20.3 % 27.0 % (6.2)%Provision for income taxes(464,063) (456,720) (9.4)% (11.6)% (1.6)%Income from continuing operations537,005 610,207 10.9 % 15.4 % (12.0)%Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax(15,424) (16,377) (0.3)% (0.4)% 5.8 %Net income521,581 593,830 10.6 % 15.0 % (12.2)%Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests31,421 4,489 0.6 % 0.1 % *Net income attributable to Apollo$553,002 $598,319 11.2 % 15.1 % (7.6)% * not meaningfulNet RevenueOur net revenue increased $972.3 million, or 24.6%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. University of Phoenixs 19.4% net revenue growth was the primary contributor to the increase, mainly due to its growth in Degreed Enrollment and selective tuition price increases. Apollo Globals acquisition of BPP also contributed $238.7 million, or 6.0 percentage points, of the overall increase in net revenue in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. See our Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment.Instructional and Student AdvisoryInstructional and student advisory increased $399.2 million, or 29.9%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, which represents a 150 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to BPPs cost structure following Apollo Globals acquisition of BPP in July 2009.MarketingMarketing expenses increased $126.2 million, or 25.4%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, which represents a 10 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in expense was primarily attributable to University of Phoenixs increased spending on non Internet long term branding and program driven marketing initiatives.79Table of ContentsAdmissions AdvisoryAdmissions advisory increased $28.5 million, or 6.5%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, but represents a 160 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to a lower growth rate for admissions personnel headcount compared to the increase in net revenue.General and AdministrativeGeneral and administrative expenses increased $23.2 million, or 8.4%, in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, but represents a 90 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to the following:a reduction in share based compensation;a reduction in legal costs in connection with defending ourselves in various legal matters;the write off in fiscal year 2009 of $9.4 million of information technology fixed assets that resulted primarily from our rationalization of software; and expense in fiscal year 2009 resulting from our internal review of certain Satisfactory Academic Progress calculations.Provision for Uncollectible Accounts ReceivableProvision for uncollectible accounts receivable increased $131.6 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, which represents a 190 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase was primarily attributable to the economic uncertainty and an increase in the proportion of our aged receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in associates degree programs. Our collection rates for such students are lower compared to students enrolled in graduate level programs and bachelors students.Depreciation and AmortizationDepreciation and amortization increased $36.7 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009, which represents a 20 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase was primarily attributable to the amortization of BPPs intangible assets, and increased depreciation related to information technology, network infrastructure, and software.Goodwill and Other Intangibles ImpairmentGoodwill and other impairment charges during fiscal year 2010 included the following:a $156.3 million charge for BPPs goodwill;a $19.6 million charge for BPPs other intangibles; andan $8.7 million charge for ULAs goodwill.Litigation Charge We recorded $178.0 million of charges in fiscal year 2010 associated with the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). See Note 20, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded an $80.5 million charge representing our agreement in principle to settle a qui tam lawsuit pertaining to alleged violations of the False Claims Act. The settlement was finalized by all parties in fiscal year 2009, and the agreement made clear that we do not acknowledge, admit or concede any liability, wrongdoing, noncompliance, or violation as a result of the settlement.Interest IncomeInterest income decreased $9.7 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to lower interest rates during fiscal year 2010.Interest ExpenseInterest expense increased $7.4 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to an increase in average borrowings.Other, NetThe loss in fiscal year 2010 was primarily attributable to net foreign currency losses related to our international operations. The loss in fiscal year 2009 was primarily attributable to $6.9 million of expense incurred for the purchase of a call option to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations related to the BPP acquisition.80Table of ContentsProvision for Income TaxesOur effective income tax rate for fiscal year 2010 was 46.4% compared to 42.8% for fiscal year 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to the following:The BPP and ULA goodwill impairments, discussed above, for which we do not receive a tax benefit;An increase in other foreign losses for which we do not receive a tax benefit; andAn increase in our state effective rate principally due to the decrease in pre tax income associated with the BPP and ULA goodwill impairment charges noted above. Our state effective rate was also adversely impacted by a number of state law changes or interpretations that resulted in a larger portion of our income being taxed by two or more states. Refer to Note 15, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.The above items were partially offset by the following:A tax benefit recorded in fiscal year 2010 associated with our settlement of a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service relating to the deduction of certain stock option compensation on our U.S. federal income tax returns beginning in fiscal year 2003;The estimated tax impact on the litigation charge recorded in fiscal year 2009 associated with a qui tam lawsuit discussed above for which the tax benefit was uncertain; andCertain compensation in fiscal year 2009 for which the tax benefit was uncertain under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of TaxLoss from discontinued operations, net of tax, relates to our Insight Schools business, which we classified as held for sale and as discontinued operations in fiscal year 2010. The decrease in the loss in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to growth in net revenue resulting from increased enrollment in the schools operated by Insight Schools. This was partially offset by a $9.4 million impairment of Insight Schools goodwill recorded in fiscal year 2010. See Note 5, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling InterestsThe increase in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was primarily due to Apollo Globals noncontrolling shareholders portion of the goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges during fiscal year 2010 discussed above.81Table of ContentsAnalysis of Operating Results by Reportable SegmentThe table below details our operating results by reportable segment for the periods indicated: Year Ended August 31, $ %($ in thousands)2010 2009 Change ChangeNet revenue University of Phoenix$4,498,325 $3,766,600 $731,725 19.4 %Apollo Global: BPP251,743 13,062 238,681 *Other78,253 76,083 2,170 2.9 %Total Apollo Global329,996 89,145 240,851 *Other Schools95,706 95,045 661 0.7 %Corporate(1)1,792 2,776 (984) (35.4)%Total net revenue$4,925,819 $3,953,566 $972,253 24.6 %Operating income (loss) University of Phoenix$1,447,636 $1,131,331 $316,305 28.0 %Apollo Global: BPP(186,552) (6,607) (179,945) *Other(31,147) (11,431) (19,716) *Total Apollo Global(217,699) (18,038) (199,661) *Other Schools9,201 6,931 2,270 32.8 %Corporate(1)(228,414) (54,289) (174,125) *Total operating income$1,010,724 $1,065,935 $(55,211) (5.2)% * not meaningful(1) The Corporate caption in our segment reporting includes adjustments to reconcile segment results to consolidated results, which primarily consist of net revenue and corporate charges that are not allocated to our segments. The operating loss for Corporate in fiscal year 2010 includes $178.0 million of charges associated with the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago).University of PhoenixThe $731.7 million, or 19.4%, increase in net revenue in our University of Phoenix segment was primarily due to enrollment growth as detailed below: Average Degreed Enrollment(1) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment(1),(4) August 31, 2010(2) August 31, 2009(3) % Change Year EndedAugust 31, % Change(rounded to the nearest hundred) 2010 2009 Associates204,200 173,300 17.8% 187,700 191,700 (2.1)%Bachelors178,500 151,700 17.7% 131,300 108,900 20.6 %Masters70,800 70,100 1.0% 49,300 51,900 (5.0)%Doctoral7,400 6,600 12.1% 3,400 3,300 3.0 %Total460,900 401,700 14.7% 371,700 355,800 4.5 %(1) Refer to item 1, Business, for definitions of Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment.(2) Represents the average of Degreed Enrollment for the quarters ended August 31, 2009, November 30, 2009, February 28, 2010, May 31, 2010 and August 31, 2010. (3) Represents the average of Degreed Enrollment for the quarters ended August 31, 2008, November 30, 2008, February 28, 2009, May 31, 2009 and August 31, 2009. (4) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment represents the sum of the four quarters New Degreed Enrollment in the respective fiscal years. 82Table of ContentsWe believe the enrollment growth was primarily attributable to the following:Enhancements in our marketing capabilities, along with continued investments in enhancing and expanding University of Phoenix academic quality and service offerings; andEconomic uncertainties, as working learners seek to advance their education to improve their job security or reemployment prospects.Partially offsetting the factors above are our efforts to more effectively identify students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs. Contributing to this effort are refinements in our marketing strategy and our University Orientation program, which we began piloting during fiscal year 2010. See Overview in this MD&A for further discussion of University Orientation. Decreased enrollment in masters degree programs also offsets this growth.In addition to the growth in Degreed Enrollment, net revenue increased due to selective tuition price and other fee changes implemented July 1, 2009, which varied by geographic area, program, and degree level. In the aggregate, these selective price and other fee changes, including increases in discounts for military and veteran students, averaged approximately 4%.We also implemented selective tuition price and other fee changes at University of Phoenix depending on geographic area, program, and degree level effective July 1, 2010. In aggregate, these tuition price and other fee changes, including increased discounts to military and other veteran students in selective programs, were generally in the range of 4 6%.Operating income in our University of Phoenix segment increased $316.3 million, or 28.0%, during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to the following:The 19.4% increase in University of Phoenix net revenue;Employee headcount has grown at a lower rate than the increase in net revenue; andThe $80.5 million charge recorded in fiscal year 2009 associated with a qui tam lawsuit discussed above.The above factors were partially offset by increased bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenue. Bad debt expense has increased as a result of the economic uncertainty and an increase in the proportion of our aged receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in associates degree programs. Our collection rates for such students are lower compared to students enrolled in graduate level programs and bachelors students.Apollo GlobalApollo Globals net revenue increased $240.9 million during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009. Apollo Globals acquisition of BPP during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 contributed $238.7 million of the increase in net revenue in fiscal year 2010.Apollo Globals operating loss increased $199.7 million during fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to the following:Goodwill and other intangible impairments in fiscal year 2010 of $175.9 million and $8.7 million at BPP and ULA, respectively;Amortization of BPP intangible assets, certain expenditures at BPP associated with the integration process, and an adverse impact on BPPs operations from the global economic uncertainty; andExpenditures at Western International University, UNIACC and ULA including, but not limited to, initiatives to enhance academic quality and the respective brands.Other SchoolsThe increase in Other Schools net revenue and operating income was primarily due to increased enrollment at Meritus and a contract termination fee earned by IPD during fiscal year 2010. Operating income also increased due to a decrease in marketing expense at Meritus, which was primarily the result of more expenditures in fiscal year 2009 related to its launch of programs early in fiscal year 2009.Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial PositionWe believe that our cash and cash equivalents and available liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations through at least the next 12 months. We believe that the most strategic uses of our cash resources include investments in the continued enhancement and expansion of our student offerings, share repurchases, acquisition opportunities including our commitment to Apollo Global and acquisition of Carnegie Learning, Inc. as discussed below in Cash Flows, investments in our marketing approaches to more effectively identify students who have 83Table of Contentsa greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs, and investments in information technology initiatives. Additionally, we entered into an agreement in principle in September 2011 to settle the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago) for a payment of $145.0 million. The outcome of this legal proceeding remains uncertain including, but not limited to, the requirement that any settlement agreement must be approved by the court. Refer to Note 20, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information.Although we currently have substantial available liquidity, our ability to access the credit markets and other sources of liquidity may be adversely affected if we experience regulatory compliance challenges, reduced availability of Title IV funding or other funding sources, or other adverse effects on our business from regulatory or legislative changes. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate.Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash and Cash EquivalentsThe substantial majority of our cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash and cash equivalents, are held by our domestic subsidiaries and placed with high credit quality financial institutions. The following table provides a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents (including long term) at August 31, 2011 and 2010: % of Total Assets at August 31, August 31, %($ in thousands)2011 2010 2011 2010 ChangeCash and cash equivalents$1,571,664 $1,284,769 48.1% 35.7% 22.3 %Restricted cash and cash equivalents379,407 444,132 11.6% 12.3% (14.6)%Restricted cash equivalents for collateralization of letter of credit 126,615 % 3.5% (100.0)%Total$1,951,071 $1,855,516 59.7% 51.5% 5.1 %Cash and cash equivalents (excluding restricted cash) increased $286.9 million primarily due to $897.1 million of cash provided by operations, $169.0 million of proceeds from the sale leaseback of our principal office buildings in Phoenix, Arizona, a $126.6 million return of collateral resulting from the release of a letter of credit, $24.9 million received from the issuance of our Class A common stock and $21.3 million of proceeds from our sale of Insight Schools. These items were partially offset by $783.2 million used for share repurchases, $162.6 million used for capital expenditures, and $27.9 million used for payments on borrowings (net of proceeds from borrowings).We measure our money market funds included in cash and restricted cash equivalents at fair value. At August 31, 2011, we had money market funds of $1,854.9 million. The money market funds were valued primarily using real time quotes for transactions in active exchange markets involving identical assets. We did not record any material adjustments to reflect these instruments at fair value.DebtBank Facility In fiscal year 2008, we entered into a syndicated $500 million credit agreement (the Bank Facility). The Bank Facility is an unsecured revolving credit facility used for general corporate purposes including acquisitions and stock buybacks. The Bank Facility has an expansion feature for an aggregate principal amount of up to $250 million. The term is five years and will expire on January 4, 2013. The Bank Facility provides a multi currency sub limit facility for borrowings in certain specified foreign currencies. We borrowed substantially all of our credit line under the Bank Facility as of August 31, 2011 and 2010, which included 63.0 million denominated in British Pounds (equivalent to $103.2 million as of August 31, 2011). We repaid the U.S. dollar denominated debt on our Bank Facility of $390.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 and $400.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We have classified the U.S. dollar denominated portion of our Bank Facility borrowings as short term borrowings and the current portion of long term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets because it was repaid subsequent to our respective fiscal year ends. The Bank Facility fees are determined based on a pricing grid that varies according to our leverage ratio. The Bank Facility fee ranges from 12.5 to 17.5 basis points and the incremental fees for borrowings under the facility range from LIBOR + 50.0 to 82.5 basis points. The weighted average interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the Bank Facility at August 31, 2011 and 2010 was 2.8% and 2.9%, respectively. The Bank Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including the following financial covenants: maximum leverage ratio, minimum coverage interest and rent expense ratio, and a U.S. Department of Education financial responsibility composite score. In addition, there are covenants restricting indebtedness, liens, investments, asset transfers and distributions. We were in compliance with all covenants related to the Bank Facility at August 31, 2011.84Table of ContentsBPP Credit Facility In fiscal year 2010, we refinanced BPPs debt by entering into a 52.0 million (equivalent to $85.2 million as of August 31, 2011) secured credit agreement (the BPP Credit Facility). The BPP Credit Facility contains term debt, which was used to refinance BPPs existing debt, and revolving credit facilities used for working capital and general corporate purposes. The term of the agreement is three years and will expire on August 31, 2013. The interest rate on borrowings varies according to a financial ratio and range from LIBOR + 250 to 325 basis points. The weighted average interest rate on BPPs outstanding borrowings at August 31, 2011 and 2010 was 4.0% and 4.0%, respectively.The BPP Credit Facility contains financial covenants that include minimum cash flow coverage ratio, minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, maximum leverage ratio, and maximum capital expenditure ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants related to the BPP Credit Facility at August 31, 2011.Other Other debt includes $9.1 million of variable rate debt and $12.5 million of fixed rate debt as of August 31, 2011, and $8.7 million of variable rate debt and $17.0 million of fixed rate debt as of August 31, 2010. The interest rates on these debt instruments range from 5.0% to 7.3% with various maturities from 2012 to 2019. The weighted average interest rate on our other debt at August 31, 2011 and 2010 was 6.1% and 6.7%, respectively.Cash FlowsOperating ActivitiesThe following table provides a summary of our operating cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31,($ in thousands)2011 2010 2009Net income$535,796 $521,581 $593,830Non cash items673,660 719,453 376,868Changes in assets and liabilities, excluding the impact of acquisitions and business disposition(312,334) (207,792) (58,620)Net cash provided by operating activities$897,122 $1,033,242 $912,078Fiscal year 2011 Our non cash items primarily consisted of $219.9 million for goodwill and other intangibles impairments, a $181.3 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $159.0 million of depreciation and amortization, $70.0 million of share based compensation, $55.8 million of deferred income taxes and $22.9 million of restructuring and other charges. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $121.1 million use of cash related to the change in accounts receivable, excluding the provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, a $79.5 million decrease in deferred revenue principally attributable to lower enrollment, a $76.0 million decrease in other liabilities principally attributable to a decrease in our uncertain tax positions, and a $70.1 million decrease in student deposits principally attributable to lower enrollment. This was partially offset by a $64.7 million decrease in restricted cash and cash equivalents principally attributable to lower enrollment.Fiscal year 2010 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $282.6 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $194.0 million for goodwill and other intangibles impairments (including Insight Schools goodwill impairment included in discontinued operations), $178.0 million for charges associated with the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago), $147.0 million for depreciation and amortization, and $64.3 million for share based compensation. This was partially offset by $125.4 million of deferred income taxes. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $266.0 million increase in gross accounts receivable principally due to increased enrollment and tuition price increases at University of Phoenix, and a $44.7 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities primarily due to a qui tam lawsuit settlement payment. This was partially offset by a $65.7 million increase in other liabilities principally due to an increase in uncertain tax positions associated with state taxes, and a $32.9 million increase in deferred revenue principally due to increased enrollment and tuition price increases.Fiscal year 2009 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $152.5 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $113.4 million for depreciation and amortization, $80.5 million for a charge associated with a qui tam lawsuit as discussed in Results of Operations in this MD&A, and $68.0 million for share based compensation, which was partially offset by $18.5 million of excess tax benefits from share based compensation. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $192.3 million increase in gross accounts receivable primarily due to increased enrollment and a delay in disbursements of certain Title IV funds prior to our fiscal year end, and a $48.1 million increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents principally due to increased enrollment. This was partially offset by an $80.3 million increase in deferred revenue and a $59.5 million increase in student deposits, both of which were primarily due to increased enrollment, and an increase of $45.4 million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities.We monitor our accounts receivable through a variety of metrics, including days sales outstanding. We calculate our days sales 85Table of Contentsoutstanding by determining average daily student revenue based on a rolling twelve month analysis and divide it into the gross student accounts receivable balance as of the end of the period. As of August 31, 2011 excluding accounts receivable and the related net revenue for Apollo Global, our days sales outstanding was 23 days as compared to 30 days as of August 31, 2010. The decrease in days sales outstanding was primarily attributable to the following:reductions in gross accounts receivable principally resulting from decreases in University of Phoenix enrollment;a decrease in the proportion of our receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in associates degree programs. Our collection rates for such students are generally lower compared to students enrolled in bachelors and graduate level programs; andrequiring all students who enroll in University of Phoenix with fewer than 24 credits to first attend University Orientation, which we believe has improved student retention. See Overview in this MD&A for further discussion of University Orientation.Improved collection rates for aged receivables at University of Phoenix also contributed to the decrease. The improved collection rates are in part due to initiatives University of Phoenix is currently implementing to improve its related processes.Investing ActivitiesThe following table provides a summary of our investing cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31,($ in thousands)2011 2010 2009Proceeds from sale leaseback, net$169,018 $ $Collateralization of letter of credit126,615 (126,615) Proceeds from business disposition21,251 Maturities of marketable securities10,000 5,000 8,035Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (5,497) (523,795)Capital expenditures(162,573) (168,177) (127,356)Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities$164,311 $(295,289) $(643,116)Fiscal year 2011 Cash provided by investing activities primarily consisted of $169.0 million of proceeds from the sale leaseback of our principal office buildings in Phoenix, Arizona, a $126.6 million return of collateral resulting from the release of a letter of credit, $21.3 million of proceeds from our sale of Insight Schools, and $10.0 million from marketable securities maturities. This was partially offset by $162.6 million used for capital expenditures that primarily related to investments in our information technology, network infrastructure, and software.Subsequent to August 31, 2011, we paid $75 million for the acquisition of all of the stock of Carnegie Learning, Inc., a publisher of research based math curricula and adaptive learning. See Overview in this MD&A for further discussion.Fiscal year 2010 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $168.2 million for capital expenditures principally related to investments in our computer equipment and software, and $126.6 million used for the collateralization of a letter of credit. The letter of credit was posted in favor of the U.S. Department of Education as required in connection with a program review of University of Phoenix by the Department, which was released in fiscal year 2011 as discussed above.Fiscal year 2009 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $523.8 million for Apollo Globals acquisitions (including $510.1 related to the acquisition of BPP), and $127.4 million for capital expenditures. This was partially offset by $8.0 million provided from marketable securities maturities.Financing ActivitiesThe following table provides a summary of our financing cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31,($ in thousands)2011 2010 2009Apollo Group Class A common stock purchased for treasury$(783,168) $(446,398) $(452,487)(Payments) proceeds related to borrowings, net(27,874) (2,114) 475,829Issuance of Apollo Group Class A common stock24,903 19,671 117,076Noncontrolling interest contributions6,875 2,460 58,980Other4,014 6,648 18,543Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities$(775,250) $(419,733) $217,94186Table of ContentsFiscal year 2011 Cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $783.2 million used for share repurchases and $27.9 million used for payments on borrowings (net of proceeds from borrowings). This was partially offset by $24.9 million of cash received from the issuance of our Class A common stock.Fiscal year 2010 Cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $446.4 million used for share repurchases. This was partially offset by $19.7 million of cash received from the issuance of our Class A common stock.Fiscal year 2009 Cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $475.8 million of proceeds from borrowings (net of payments on borrowings), $117.1 million of cash received from the issuance of our Class A common stock and $59.0 million related to noncontrolling interest contributions. This was partially offset by $452.5 million of cash used for share repurchases.The following table details shares of our Class A common stock newly authorized for repurchase, repurchased and reissued, and the related total cost, for the last three fiscal years:(in thousands, except per share data)Total Numberof SharesRepurchased Cost Average Price Paidper Share Maximum Value ofShares Availablefor RepurchaseTreasury stock as of August 31, 200829,536 $1,757,277 $59.50 $500,000New authorizations 444,382Shares repurchased7,212 444,382 61.62 (444,382)Other share repurchases(1)119 8,105 68.11 Shares reissued(3,121) (187,141) 59.96 Treasury stock as of August 31, 200933,746 $2,022,623 $59.94 $500,000New authorizations 500,000Shares repurchased7,875 439,319 55.78 (439,319)Other share repurchases(1)149 7,079 47.45 Shares reissued(1,056) (61,233) 57.95 Treasury stock as of August 31, 201040,714 $2,407,788 $59.14 $560,681New authorizations 215,778Shares repurchased18,340 775,748 42.30 (775,748)Other share repurchases(1)163 7,420 45.70 Shares reissued(1,214) (65,781) 54.19 Treasury stock as of August 31, 201158,003 $3,125,175 $53.88 $711 (1)In connection with the release of vested shares of restricted stock, we repurchased approximately 163,000, 149,000 and 119,000 shares of our Class A common stock for $7.4 million, $7.1 million and $8.1 million during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These repurchases relate to tax withholding requirements on the restricted stock units and are not part of the repurchase program described below. As of August 31, 2011, approximately $0.7 million remained available under our share repurchase authorization. Subsequent to August 31, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the amount available under our share repurchase program up to an aggregate amount of $500 million. The amount and timing of future share repurchase authorizations and repurchases, if any, will be made as market and business conditions warrant. Repurchases may be made on the open market through various methods including but not limited to accelerated share repurchase programs, or in privately negotiated transactions, pursuant to the applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules, and may include repurchases pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b5 1 nondiscretionary trading programs.87Table of ContentsContractual Obligations and Other Commercial CommitmentsThe following table lists our contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of August 31, 2011: Payments Due by Fiscal Year($ in thousands)2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter TotalDebt(1)$415,128 $146,813 $3,157 $4,674 $569,772Operating lease obligations162,217 304,495 246,916 464,969 1,178,597Capital lease obligations9,395 16,859 12,447 2,467 41,168Stadium naming rights(2)6,716 14,042 14,897 86,655 122,310Uncertain tax positions(3)5,941 22,277 28,218Other obligations(4)1,061 3,918 2,756 597 8,332Total$600,458 $486,127 $280,173 $581,639 $1,948,397 (1) Amounts include expected future interest payments. Refer to Note 13, Debt, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our outstanding debt.(2) Amounts consist of an agreement for naming rights to the Glendale, Arizona Sports Complex until 2026.(3) Amounts consist of our reserve for unrecognized tax positions, including interest and penalties, that are included in other current and other long term liabilities in our August 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled.(4) Amount consists of unconditional purchase obligations and undiscounted deferred compensation payments due to Dr. John G. Sperling, our founder.We have no other material commercial commitments not included in the above table.Off Balance Sheet ArrangementsAs part of our normal operations, our insurers issue surety bonds for us that are required by various states where we operate. We are obligated to reimburse our insurers for any surety bonds that are paid by the insurers. As of August 31, 2011, the total face amount of these surety bonds was approximately $55.7 million.During fiscal year 2011, the Department of Education released our $126 million letter of credit previously posted in connection with our February 2009 program review.Financial Aid Program FundsSee the discussion of financial aid program funds in Item 1, Business, Financial Aid Programs Domestic Postsecondary.Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskImpact of InflationInflation has not had a significant impact on our historical operations.Foreign Currency Exchange RiskWe use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency. The functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are generally the local currencies. Accordingly, our foreign currency exchange risk is related to the following exposure areas:Adjustments resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of the foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates. These translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss);Earnings volatility from the translation of income and expense items of the foreign subsidiaries using an average monthly exchange rate for the respective periods; andGains and losses resulting from foreign currency exchange rate changes related to intercompany receivables and payables that are not of a long term investment nature, as well as gains and losses from foreign currency transactions. These items are recorded in Other, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income.In fiscal year 2011, we recorded $7.6 million in net foreign currency translation gains, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income. These gains are primarily the result of the general weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign 88Table of Contentscurrencies during fiscal year 2011.As we continue to expand our international operations, we will conduct more transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, thus increasing our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The following table outlines our net asset (liability) exposure by foreign currency (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities and excluding intercompany balances) denominated in U.S. dollars for foreign currencies in which we have significant assets and or liabilities as of August 31:($ in thousands)2011 2010Euro$34,981 $31,891Mexican Peso23,187 20,599Chilean Peso20,899 19,498British Pound Sterling(37,592) 162,365The decrease in British Pound denominated net assets is principally due to BPPs $219.9 million of goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges during fiscal year 2011. Our British Pound denominated net assets as of August 31, 2011 and 2010 includes 63.0 million borrowed under our Bank Facility (equivalent to $103.2 million as of August 31, 2011). Apollo has not generally used derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.89Table of ContentsInterest Rate RiskInterest IncomeAs of August 31, 2011, we held $1,957.0 million in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities. During fiscal year 2011, our interest rate yields were less than 1%, and we earned interest income of $3.2 million. Based on the current Federal Funds Rate, we do not believe any further reduction would have a material impact on us.Interest ExpenseWe have exposure to changing interest rates primarily associated with our variable rate debt. At August 31, 2011, we had a total outstanding debt balance of $599.0 million. The following table presents the weighted average interest rates and our scheduled maturities of principal by fiscal year for our outstanding debt at August 31, 2011:($ in thousands, except percentages)2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter TotalFixed rate debt$10,258 $9,731 $8,273 $7,970 $6,295 $6,502 $49,029Average interest rate 4.7%Variable rate debt$409,060 $140,920 $ $ $ $ $549,980Average interest rate 3.0%We have an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $47.5 million used to minimize the interest rate exposure on a portion of BPPs variable rate debt. The interest rate swap is used to fix the variable interest rate on the associated debt. As of August 31, 2011, the fair value of the swap is a liability of $3.4 million and is included in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.For the purpose of sensitivity, based on our outstanding variable rate debt exposed to changes in interest rates as of August 31, 2011, an increase of 100 basis points in our weighted average interest rate would increase interest expense by approximately $5.0 million on an annual basis.Substantially all of our debt is variable interest rate and the carrying amount approximates fair value.90Table of Contents
 
