Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsThis Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help investors understand our results of operations, financial condition and present business environment. The MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The MD&A is organized as follows:Overview: From managements point of view, we discuss the following:An overview of our business and the sectors of the education industry in which we operate;Key trends, developments and challenges; andSignificant events from the current period.Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: A discussion of our accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates.Recent Accounting Pronouncements: A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements.Results of Operations: An analysis of our results of operations as reflected on our consolidated financial statements.Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position: An analysis of our cash flows and contractual obligations and other commercial commitments.OverviewApollo is one of the worlds largest private education providers and has been a provider of education services for approximately 40 years. We offer innovative and distinctive educational programs and services at the undergraduate, masters and doctoral levels at our various campuses and learning centers, and online throughout the world. Our principal wholly owned subsidiaries and subsidiaries that we control include the following:The University of Phoenix, Inc. (University of Phoenix);Apollo Global, Inc. (Apollo Global):BPP Holdings Limited (BPP);Western International University, Inc. (Western International University);Universidad Latinoamericana (ULA); andUniversidad de Artes, Ciencias y Comunicacin (UNIACC);Institute for Professional Development (IPD); andThe College for Financial Planning Institutes Corporation (CFFP).On September 12, 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Carnegie Learning, Inc. (Carnegie Learning), a publisher of research based math curricula and adaptive learning software. Refer to Fiscal Year 2012 Significant Events Carnegie Learning, Inc. Acquisition in this MD&A for additional information. In addition, we are developing a business, Apollo Education Services, through which we intend to begin providing a variety of educational delivery services to other higher education institutions.Substantially all of our net revenue is composed of tuition and fees for educational services. In fiscal year 2012, University of Phoenix generated 91% of our total consolidated net revenue and more than 100% of our operating income, and 84% of its cash basis revenue for eligible tuition and fees was derived from U.S. federal financial aid programs established by Title IV of the Higher Education Act and regulations promulgated thereunder (Title IV), as calculated under the 90/10 Rule.We believe that a critical element of generating successful long term growth and attractive returns for our stakeholders is to provide high quality educational products and services to increase the value proposition for students and maximize the benefits of their educational experience. Accordingly, we are actively focused on further aligning our educational offerings with the learning outcomes students need to succeed in todays and tomorrows workplace. We are continuously enhancing and expanding our current service offerings and investing in academic quality. We have developed customized systems for academic quality management, faculty recruitment and training, student tracking, and marketing to help us more effectively manage toward this objective. We believe we utilize one of the most comprehensive postsecondary learning assessment programs in the U.S. We seek to improve student retention by building a strong connection between our education and careers, promoting instructional innovation and enhancing student services. All of these efforts are designed to help our students stay in school and succeed.54Table of ContentsKey Trends, Developments and ChallengesThe following developments and trends present opportunities, challenges and risks as we work toward our goal of providing attractive returns for all of our stakeholders:Focus on Education to Careers. We recognize the critical importance to our students of improved employment or advancement prospects. We believe that this has been a core value proposition in our offering to students over the years. However, we believe that we must enhance this value proposition for our students and do so in a manner that is clearly demonstrable. Specifically, we believe that we must be able to demonstrate a clearly compelling relationship between our degree programs and improvements in our graduates prospects for employment in their relevant field of choice or advancement within their existing careers. Accordingly, we are actively focused on enhancing this element of our educational offerings through various initiatives, including the incorporation of career resources such as career planning tools and faculty support directly into the learning experience.Student Experience. We remain focused on more effectively identifying students who can succeed in our educational programs, ensuring they are adequately prepared, and improving the overall student experience. In furtherance of this, along with enhancing the connection of education to careers as discussed above: we are actively working on major enhancements to our learning and student service platforms, and we are in the process of incorporating adaptive learning into our curricula to offer an individualized approach to learning;we require substantially all incoming students with less than 24 credits to attend our free three week University Orientation Program, which is designed to help inexperienced prospective students better understand the time commitments and rigors of higher education prior to enrollment;we have modified our marketing content and channels to better identify potential students that we believe are more likely to succeed at University of Phoenix; andwe have eliminated all enrollment factors in evaluating the performance of our admissions personnel in order to better align our admissions personnel with our students success.We believe that some of these changes significantly contributed to the reduction in aggregate New Degreed Enrollment in fiscal years 2011 and 2012; however, we believe these changes, together with other initiatives, have improved the student experience and will enhance student outcomes. Furthermore, we believe that over the long term these initiatives will reduce the risks to our business associated with the regulatory environment.Business Process Reengineering. During fiscal year 2011, we began initiating a series of activities to reengineer business processes and refine our educational delivery structure. These activities are designed to increase operating efficiencies and effectiveness, and enhance our students educational experience and outcomes. We have incurred $61.6 million of cumulative restructuring and other charges associated with these activities during fiscal years 2011 and 2012. Pursuant to this initiative, in fiscal years 2012 and 2011 we implemented the following strategic reductions in workforce:During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we eliminated approximately 350 positions at University of Phoenix, Apollo Global and certain Corporate functions;During the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, we eliminated approximately 150 positions at UNIACC principally representing non direct student servicing personnel; andDuring the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we eliminated approximately 700 full time positions at University of Phoenix principally representing admissions personnel.Subsequent to August 31, 2012, we continued our initiative to reengineer business processes and refine our educational delivery structure. These activities, including the actions discussed below, are expected to favorably impact annual operating expenses by at least $300 million by fiscal year 2014, when compared to fiscal year 2012. We expect to realize more than half of these cumulative cost savings in fiscal year 2013, with the remainder in fiscal year 2014.University of Phoenix is realigning its ground locations throughout the U.S., which will directly impact approximately 4% of Degreed Enrollment, or around 13,000 students. These students will be offered support to continue their education at University of Phoenix either online, through alternative on ground arrangements or, in limited cases, at existing University of Phoenix locations. This plan includes closing 115 locations, consisting of 90 learning and student resource centers, which are generally smaller satellite locations, and 25 campuses. University of Phoenix will preserve a national coast to coast network of 112 locations and plans to retain a 55Table of Contentspresence in 36 states, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Subject to regulatory approvals, the realignment is expected to be substantially complete in fiscal year 2013. We expect to incur approximately $175 million of restructuring and other charges, principally for lease exit and other related costs, with most of these costs incurred in fiscal year 2013. We plan to continue investing in our ground locations to create state of the art, technologically integrated facilities offering academic and career support and increased mobile connectivity, while also continuing to advance our leading edge online learning platform. We also have begun implementing a workforce reduction and expect to decrease total headcount, excluding faculty, by approximately 800 employees during fiscal year 2013. We anticipate incurring approximately $25 million of restructuring and other charges in fiscal year 2013 related to workforce reductions.Refer to Results of Operations in this MD&A and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The on going reengineering of our business processes, including a substantial reduction in our on ground locations and a reduction in workforce, could negatively impact our enrollment and operating results, for further discussion.Regulatory Environment. Our domestic postsecondary institutions are subject to extensive federal and state regulations. In particular, the federal Higher Education Act, as reauthorized, and related U.S. Department of Education regulations, prescribe detailed requirements affecting substantially all activities of University of Phoenix and Western International University as a condition to participating in Title IV programs. We have summarized below certain significant regulatory developments and trends applicable to our business. For a more detailed discussion of the regulatory environment and related risks, refer to Part I, Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors.Higher Learning Commission. In August 2010, University of Phoenix received a letter from its principal accreditor, the Higher Learning Commission (HLC), requiring University of Phoenix to provide certain information and evidence of compliance with HLC accreditation standards. This followed the August 2010 report published by the Government Accountability Office of its undercover investigation into the enrollment and recruiting practices of a number of proprietary institutions of higher education, including University of Phoenix. In July 2011, the Special Committee formed to review this matter completed its work, concluding that based on its limited review, it found no apparent evidence of systematic misrepresentations to students or that University of Phoenixs procedures in the areas of recruiting, financial aid and admissions were significantly inadequate or inappropriate. HLC also stated that there remained significant questions and areas that University of Phoenix should work on improving. HLC is reviewing these areas of concern as part of its previously scheduled comprehensive reaffirmation evaluation visit, which began in March 2012. In September 2012, HLC required University of Phoenix to provide a response to data submitted on the University of Phoenixs 2012 Institutional Annual Report. HLC reviews data from all of its accredited and candidate for accreditation member institutions. HLC identified three non financial indicators for which it sought additional information: Increase or decrease in full time faculty of 25% or more from the prior years report; Ratio of undergraduate full time equivalent students to undergraduate full time equivalent faculty of greater than 35 in the period reported; and Three year student loan default rate of 25% or more. University of Phoenix expects to respond to HLC in late October 2012. HLC has indicated that it will assign several members of the current team reviewing University of Phoenixs reaffirmation to evaluate University of Phoenixs response to the report, and that their evaluation will become an appendix to the review teams report on University of Phoenixs reaffirmation.Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the U.S. Department of Education, we could lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs, which would materially and adversely affect our business.U.S. Congressional Hearings and Financial Aid Funding. In recent years, there has been increased focus by members of the U.S. Congress on the role that proprietary educational institutions play in higher education. Congressional hearings and roundtable discussions have been held, beginning in June 2010, by the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP Committee), regarding various aspects of the education industry that may result in regulatory changes that affect our business. We have voluntarily provided substantial amounts of information about our business at the request of various Congressional committees, and we intend to continue being responsive to Congress in this regard. In July 2012, the HELP Committee issued their final report which was unfavorable to proprietary institutions. In addition, other Congressional hearings or roundtable discussions are expected to be held regarding various aspects of the education industry that may affect 56Table of Contentsour business. We cannot predict what legislation, if any, may emanate from these Congressional committee hearings or what impact any such legislation might have on the proprietary education sector and our business in particular. As Congress addresses the historic U.S. budget deficit, financial aid programs are a potential target for reduction. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, whether through across the board funding reductions, sequestration or otherwise, or materially impacts the eligibility of our institutions or students to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congressional action could also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our administrative costs and reduce our operating income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Action by the U.S. Congress to revise the laws governing the federal student financial aid programs or reduce funding for those programs, including changes applicable only to proprietary educational institutions, could reduce our enrollment and increase our costs of operation.In addition to possible reductions in federal student financial aid, state funded student financial aid also may be reduced as many states grapple with their own historic budget shortfalls, including California, as described below.California Grant Program (Cal Grants). In California, the state in which we conduct the most business by revenue, University of Phoenix students received approximately $21 million of Cal Grants in fiscal year 2012. Effective July 1, 2012, only schools with a graduation rate of at least 30% and a three year federal student loan cohort default rate below 15.5% are eligible to participate in the Cal Grant program. As a result, new University of Phoenix students are no longer eligible for Cal Grants and continuing students will be eligible for only one additional year, and the maximum award for these students has been reduced by 20%. This change and other changes in state funded student financial aid could result in increased student borrowing, decreased enrollment and adverse impacts on our 90/10 Rule percentage.Increased Attention to Issues Surrounding Marketing. At both the state and federal level, there are a growing number of efforts to evaluate and restrict the manner in which educational institutions market their services to potential students. For example, several state Attorneys General recently reached a settlement with a third party lead generation provider relating to alleged misleading marketing practices. In addition, various members of Congress have commented publicly about allegedly deceptive marketing practices by some for profit educational institutions based on review of the materials released by Senator Tom Harkin, and on September 21, 2012, a group of Senators and Representatives sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission encouraging the Commission to evaluate these practices. Other members of Congress have introduced legislation to limit the use of federal funds for marketing purposes. Action by Congress or the Department of Education to address these marketing issues could limit and potentially constrain our choices of marketing plans and limit their effectiveness.Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Education (OIG). In October 2011, the OIG notified us that it was conducting a nationwide audit of the Departments program requirements, guidance, and monitoring of institutions of higher education offering distance education. In connection with the OIGs audit of the Department, the OIG examined a sample of University of Phoenix students who enrolled during the period from July 1, 2010 to June 30, 2011. The OIG subsequently notified University of Phoenix that in the course of this review it identified certain conditions that the OIG believes are Title IV compliance exceptions at University of Phoenix. Although University of Phoenix is not the direct subject of the OIGs audit of the Department, the OIG has asked University of Phoenix to respond so that it may consider University of Phoenixs views in formulating its audit report of the Department. These exceptions relate principally to the calculation of the amount of Title IV funds returned after student withdrawals and the process for confirming student eligibility prior to disbursement of Title IV funds.90/10 Rule. University of Phoenix and all other proprietary institutions of higher education, are subject to the so called 90/10 Rule under the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized. Under this rule, a proprietary institution will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs if for any two consecutive fiscal years it derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue, as defined in the rule, from Title IV programs. An institution that derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by the U.S. Department of Education. An institution that derives more than 90% of its cash basis revenue from Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years will be ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for at least two fiscal years.57Table of ContentsThe 90/10 Rule percentages for University of Phoenix for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 were as follows: 90/10 Rule Percentages for Fiscal Years Ended August 31, 2012 2011(1) 2010(1)University of Phoenix84% 86% 88%(1) Calculated excluding the temporary relief from the impact of loan limit increases, which was allowable for amounts received and applied to eligible charges between July 1, 2008 and June 30, 2011 that were attributable to the increased annual loan limits.Although the University of Phoenix 90/10 Rule percentage for fiscal year 2012 has decreased from fiscal years 2011 and 2010, the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix has increased materially over the years prior to fiscal year 2010. This prior increase was primarily attributable to the increase in student loan limits affected by the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 and expanded eligibility for and increases in the maximum amount of Pell Grants. We believe the decrease in the University of Phoenix 90/10 Rule percentage in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal years 2011 and 2010 is primarily attributable to the reduction in the proportion of our students who are enrolled in our associates degree programs, which historically have had a higher percentage of Title IV funds applied to eligible tuition and fees, and emphasizing employer paid and other direct pay education programs. Based on recent trends, we do not expect the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix to exceed 90% for fiscal year 2013. However, the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix remains near 90% and could exceed 90% in the future depending on the degree to which our various initiatives are effective, the impact of future changes in our enrollment mix, and regulatory and other factors outside our control, including any reduction in military benefit programs or changes in the treatment of such funding for purposes of the 90/10 Rule calculation. In addition, the ineligibility of University of Phoenix students for Cal Grants in California as discussed above, and reductions in other state funded student financial aid programs could adversely impact our compliance with the 90/10 rule, because tuition revenue derived from such programs is included in the 10% portion of the rule calculation.Any necessary further efforts to reduce the 90/10 Rule percentage for University of Phoenix, especially if the percentage exceeds 90% for a fiscal year, may involve taking measures which reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, or both, in each case perhaps significantly. In addition, we may be required to make structural changes to our business in the future in order to remain in compliance, which changes may materially alter the manner in which we conduct our business and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, these required changes could make it more difficult to comply with other important regulatory requirements, such as the cohort default rate regulations, which are discussed below.Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate Our schools and programs would lose their eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs is too high, in which event we could not conduct our business as it is currently conducted.Student Loan Cohort Default Rates. To remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs, educational institutions must maintain student loan cohort default rates below specified levels. Each cohort is the group of students who first enter into student loan repayment during a federal fiscal year (ending September 30). Under current regulations, an educational institution will lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if its two year measuring period student loan cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% for three consecutive cohort years, or 40% for any given year. If our student loan default rates approach these limits, we may be required to increase efforts and resources dedicated to improving these default rates. In addition, because there is a lag between the funding of a student loan and a default thereunder, many of the borrowers who are in default or at risk of default are former students with whom we may have only limited contact. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we would be able to effectively improve our default rates or improve them in a timely manner to meet the requirements for continued participation in Title IV funding if we experience a substantial increase in our student loan default rates.58Table of ContentsThe two year cohort default rates for University of Phoenix and for all proprietary postsecondary institutions for the federal fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Two Year Cohort Default Rates forCohort Years Ended September 30, 2010 2009 2008University of Phoenix(1)17.9% 18.8% 12.9%All proprietary postsecondary institutions(1)12.9% 15.0% 11.6%(1) Based on information published by the U.S. Department of Education.Although the University of Phoenix 2010 two year cohort default rate decreased compared to the previous year, University of Phoenix cohort default rates have increased materially over the prior several years. We believe the increases over the prior several years are due to the challenging economic climate, the growth in our associates degree student population and changes in the manner in which student loans are serviced. While we expect that the challenging economic environment will continue to put pressure on our student borrowers, we believe that our ongoing efforts to shift our student mix to a higher proportion of bachelors and graduate level students, the full implementation of our University Orientation program in November 2010 and our investment in student protection initiatives and repayment management services will continue to stabilize and over time favorably impact our rates. As part of our repayment management initiatives, effective with the 2009 cohort we engaged third party service providers to assist our students who are at risk of default. These service providers contact students and offer assistance, which includes providing students with specific loan repayment information such as repayment options and loan servicer contact information, and they attempt to transfer these students to the relevant loan servicer to resolve their delinquency. In addition, we are intensely focused on student retention and enrolling students who have a reasonable chance to succeed in our programs, in part because the rate of default is higher among students who do not complete their degree program compared to students who graduate. Based on the available preliminary data, we do not expect the University of Phoenix or Western International University 2011 two year cohort default rates to equal or exceed 25%.The cohort default rate requirements were modified by the Higher Education Opportunity Act enacted in August 2008 to increase by one year the measuring period for each cohort. The Department began publishing the official three year cohort default rates with the publication of the 2009 cohort default rate in September 2012 and the Department will publish the three year cohort default rates in addition to the two year rates until the phase in of the three year measurement period is complete. If an institutions three year cohort default rate equals or exceeds 30% for any given year, it must establish a default prevention task force and develop a default prevention plan with measurable objectives for improving the cohort default rate. We believe that our current repayment management efforts meet these requirements. If an institutions three year cohort default rates for the 2009 and 2010 cohorts equals or exceeds 30%, the institution may be subject to provisional certification imposing various additional requirements for participation in Title IV programs. Beginning with the three year cohort default rate for the 2011 cohort published in September 2014, only the three year rates will be applied for purposes of measuring compliance with the requirements. If the three year cohort default rate for the 2011 cohort equals or exceeds 40%, the institution will cease to be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, and if the institutions three year cohort default rate equals or exceeds 30% for three consecutive years, beginning with the 2009 cohort, the institution will cease to be eligible to participate in Title IV programs.Set forth below is the official three year cohort default rate for University of Phoenix and all propriety postsecondary institutions for the 2009 cohort, as well as the informational, trial three year rates previously published by the Department for the 2008 and 2007 cohorts: Three Year Cohort Default Rates forCohort Years Ended September 30, 2009 2008(2) 2007(2)University of Phoenix(1)26.4% 21.1% 15.9%All proprietary postsecondary institutions(1)22.7% 22.4% 21.2%(1) Based on information published by the U.S. Department of Education.(2) Trial rates published by the Department for informational purposes only. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate An increase in our student loan default rates could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would materially and adversely affect our business.59Table of ContentsInformation Technology. We are upgrading a substantial portion of our key IT systems, including our student learning system, student services platform and corporate applications, and retiring the related legacy systems. We believe that these new systems will improve the productivity, scalability, reliability and sustainability of our IT infrastructure. However, the transition from our legacy systems entails risk of unanticipated disruption, including disruptions in our core business functions, that could adversely impact our business. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business System disruptions and security threats to our computer networks or phone systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. Expand into New Markets. We pursue opportunities to utilize our core expertise and organizational capabilities, both domestically and internationally. We actively pursue quality opportunities to acquire or develop institutions of higher learning through Apollo Global and to provide educational services to other higher education institutions through our Apollo Education Services business. To date, Apollo Global has acquired educational institutions in the United Kingdom, Mexico and Chile, and has also established a joint venture to develop and provide educational services and programs in India. The integration and operation of acquired businesses in foreign jurisdictions entails substantial regulatory, market and execution risks and such acquisitions may not be accretive for an extended period of time, if at all, depending on the circumstances.For a more detailed discussion of our business, industry and risks, refer to Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors.Fiscal Year 2012 Significant EventsIn addition to the items mentioned above, we experienced the following significant events during fiscal year 2012:1.Carnegie Learning, Inc. Acquisition. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we acquired all of the stock of Carnegie Learning, Inc., a publisher of research based math curricula and adaptive learning software for $75.0 million. In a separate transaction, we acquired related technology from Carnegie Mellon University for $21.5 million, payable over a 10 year period. The acquisitions allow us to accelerate our efforts to incorporate adaptive learning into our academic platform and to provide tools which we believe will help raise student achievement levels, and support improved retention and graduation rates at University of Phoenix. Refer to Note 5, Acquisitions, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.2.UNIACC Accreditation. On November 17, 2011, UNIACC was advised by the National Accreditation Commission of Chile that its institutional accreditation would not be renewed and therefore had lapsed. UNIACC has appealed the decision, which was denied in July 2012. The loss of accreditation from the National Accreditation Commission does not impact UNIACCs ability to operate or confer degrees and does not directly affect UNIACCs programmatic accreditations. However, this institutional accreditation is necessary for new UNIACC students to participate in government loan programs and for existing students to begin to participate in such programs for the first time. The loss of accreditation has reduced new enrollment in UNIACCs degree programs due to the unavailability of the government loan programs and we cannot predict the magnitude of further reductions, if any, at this time. We implemented a reduction in workforce at UNIACC following the loss of institutional accreditation to better align its operations with its refined business model and outlook. We will continue to operate UNIACC with this refined business model and expect to pursue re accreditation with the National Accreditation Commission in fiscal year 2014 when regulations permit. Based principally on these developments, we recorded goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges of $16.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in this MD&A. In addition, in recent months, UNIACC has become the subject of two separate investigations by a prosecutor in Santiago, Chile. Refer to Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.3.Joint Venture to Provide Educational Services in India. On December 3, 2011, Apollo Global entered into an agreement with HT Media Limited, an Indian media company, to participate in a start up, 50:50 joint venture intended to develop and provide educational services and programs in India. HT Media Limited, which is based in New Delhi, India, publishes the Hindustan Times, Hindustan and Mint newspapers, among other business activities. 4.Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we entered into an agreement in principle with the plaintiffs to settle a securities class action lawsuit entitled In re Apollo Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case No. CV04 2147 PHX JAT, filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona, for $145.0 million. On April 20, 2012, the Court approved the settlement agreement and entered an order of final judgment and dismissal. In connection with approval of the settlement agreement and the dismissal of the lawsuit, the Court also vacated the related judgment against us and the individual defendants. Under the settlement agreement, during the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, the $145.0 million we had previously deposited into a common fund account in December 2011 was paid to the plaintiffs. Refer to Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.60Table of Contents5.Changes in Directors and Executive Officer. The following changes in directors and executive officer occurred during fiscal year 2012: Executive Officer and DirectorDuring the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, Charles B. Edelstein announced his retirement as Co CEO and director as of August 26, 2012.DirectorsDuring the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, Samuel A. DiPiazza, Jr. resigned from the Board of Directors;Dino J. DeConcini chose not to stand for reelection at the 2012 annual meeting of our Class B shareholders and therefore his term of service ended January 9, 2012;During the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, Richard H. Dozer was appointed to our Board of Directors;During the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, Allen R. Weiss was appointed to our Board of Directors;During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, Secretary Margaret Spellings was appointed to our Board of Directors; andDuring the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, K. Sue Redman, a member of our Board of Directors and Audit Committee Chair, informed the Board of Directors that she has decided not to stand for reelection as a director when her term expires at the 2013 annual meeting of our Class B shareholders.6.Securities and Exchange Commission. In March 2012, the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission notified us that its informal inquiry into our revenue recognition practices had been completed and that the staff did not intend to recommend any enforcement action by the Commission. In April 2012, we received notification from the Enforcement Division of the Securities and Exchange Commission requesting documents and information relating to certain stock sales by company insiders and our February 28, 2012 announcement filed with the Commission on Form 8 K regarding revised enrollment forecasts. We are cooperating fully with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with this investigation. We cannot predict the eventual scope or outcome of this investigation.7.Revolving Credit Agreement. In April 2012, we entered into a syndicated $625 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility), which replaces our previous $500 million revolving credit facility. The Revolving Credit Facility is used for general corporate purposes including acquisitions and share repurchases. The term is five years and will expire in April 2017.8.Sale of Mander Portman Woodward (MPW). In July 2012, BPP completed the sale of its subsidiary, MPW, a U.K. based secondary education institution, for 54.8 million (equivalent to $85.3 million as of the date of sale). The sale reflects our strategy to focus on the postsecondary education market. Refer to Note 4, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 9.University of Phoenix Program Review. In July 2012, University of Phoenix received an Expedited Final Program Review Determination Letter from the Department in respect of the Departments July 2012 program review. There were no findings in the program review. 10.Education, Jobs and the American Dream Report. In September 2012, we released a report, Education, Jobs and the American Dream: How We Got Here, which examines the evolution of postsecondary educational attainment in America and its relationship to todays growing employment skills gap. Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesOur consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our critical accounting policies involve a higher degree of judgments, estimates and complexity, and are detailed below.Revenue RecognitionOur educational programs, primarily composed of University of Phoenix programs, are designed to range in length from one day seminars to degree programs lasting up to four years. Students in University of Phoenix degree programs generally enroll in a program of study encompassing a series of five to nine week courses taken consecutively over the length of the program. Generally, students are billed on a course by course basis when the student first attends a session, resulting in the recording of a receivable from the student and deferred revenue in the amount of the billing. University of Phoenix students generally fund 61Table of Contentstheir education through loans and or grants from U.S. federal financial aid programs established by Title IV of the Higher Education Act and regulations promulgated thereunder (Title IV), military benefit programs, tuition assistance from their employers, or personal funds.Net revenue consists principally of tuition and fees associated with different educational programs as well as related educational resources such as access to online materials, books, and study texts. Net revenue is shown net of discounts. Tuition benefits for our employees and their eligible dependents are included in net revenue and instructional and student advisory expenses. Total employee tuition benefits were $71.1 million, $97.0 million and $100.3 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.The following table presents the components of our net revenue, and each component as a percentage of total net revenue, for the fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010: Year Ended August 31,($ in thousands)2012 2011 2010Tuition and educational services revenue$4,124,629 97 % $4,549,010 96 % $4,738,712 96 %Educational materials revenue294,499 7 % 320,780 7 % 324,951 7 %Services revenue56,981 1 % 76,500 2 % 84,185 2 %Other revenue33,192 1 % 23,139 % 22,414 %Gross revenue4,509,301 106 % 4,969,429 105 % 5,170,262 105 %Less: Discounts(255,964) (6)% (258,380) (5)% (263,649) (5)%Net revenue$4,253,337 100 % $4,711,049 100 % $4,906,613 100 %Tuition and educational services revenue encompasses both online and on campus classroom based learning. For our University of Phoenix operations, tuition revenue is recognized over the period of instruction as services are delivered to students.For our Apollo Global operations, tuition revenue is generally recognized over the length of the course and or program, which may vary depending on the program structure.Educational materials revenue relates to online course materials delivered to students over the period of instruction. Revenue associated with these materials is recognized pro rata over the period of the related course to correspond with delivery of the materials to students. Educational materials revenue also includes the sale of various books, study texts, course notes, and CDs for which we recognize revenue when the materials have been delivered to and accepted by students or other customers.Services revenue represents net revenue generated by IPD, which provides program development, administration and management consulting services to private colleges and universities (IPD Client Institutions) to establish or expand their programs for working learners. These services typically include degree program design, curriculum development, market research, certain student admissions services, accounting, and administrative services. Prior to July 1, 2011, IPD was typically paid a portion of the tuition revenue generated from these programs, and the portion of service revenue to which IPD was entitled under the terms of the contract was recognized as the services were provided. As a result of U.S. Department of Education regulations that became effective on July 1, 2011, IPDs revenue is generated based on fixed fee contracts with IPD Client Institutions and is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the contract as the services are provided. The term for these fixed fee contracts range from one to five years with provisions for renewal thereafter.Other revenue consists of the fees students pay when submitting an enrollment application, which, along with the related application costs associated with processing the applications, are deferred and recognized over the average length of time a student remains enrolled in a program of study. Other revenue also includes non tuition generating revenues, such as renting classroom space and other student support services. Revenue from these sources is recognized as the services are provided.Discounts reflect reductions in charges for tuition or other fees from our standard rates and include military, corporate, and other employer discounts, along with institutional scholarships, grants and promotions.University of Phoenixs refund policy permits students who attend 60% or less of a course to be eligible for a refund for the portion of the course they did not attend. Refunds result in a reduction in deferred revenue during the period that a student drops or withdraws from a class because associated tuition revenue is recognized pro rata over the period of instruction as the services are delivered. This refund policy applies to students in most, but not all states, as some states require different policies.62Table of ContentsGenerally, net revenue varies from period to period based on several factors, including the aggregate number of students attending classes, the number of classes held during the period, and the tuition price per credit.Sales tax collected from students is excluded from net revenue. Collected but unremitted sales tax is included as a liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and is not material to our consolidated financial statements.Allowance for Doubtful AccountsOur accounts receivable is reduced by an allowance for amounts that we expect to become uncollectible in the future. We use estimates that are subjective and require judgment in determining the allowance for doubtful accounts, which are principally based on historical collection experience, historical write offs of our receivables and current trends. Our accounts receivable are written off once the account is deemed to be uncollectible, which typically occurs after outside collection agencies have pursued collection for approximately six months.When a student with Title IV loans withdraws, Title IV rules determine if we are required to return a portion of Title IV funds to the lender. We are then entitled to collect these funds from the students, but collection rates for these types of receivables is significantly lower than our collection rates for receivables for students who remain in our educational programs.Our estimation methodology uses a statistical model that considers a number of factors that we believe impact whether receivables will become uncollectible based on our collections experience. These factors include, but are not limited to, the students academic performance and previous college experience as well as other student characteristics such as degree level and method of payment. We also monitor and consider external factors such as changes in the economic and regulatory environment. We routinely evaluate our estimation methodology for adequacy and modify it as necessary. In doing so, our objective is to cause our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the amount of receivables that will become uncollectible by considering our most recent collections experience, changes in trends and other relevant facts. Accordingly, we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our most recent collections experience and is responsive to changes in trends.We recorded bad debt expense of $146.7 million, $181.3 million and $282.6 million during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For a discussion of the decrease in bad debt expense, refer to Results of Operations below. Our allowance for doubtful accounts was $107.2 million and $128.9 million as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which approximated 37% and 40% of gross student receivables as of the respective dates. For the purpose of sensitivity:a one percent change in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of gross student receivables as of August 31, 2012 would have resulted in a pre tax change in income of $2.9 million; andif our bad debt expense were to change by one percent of total net revenue for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2012, we would have recorded a pre tax change in income of approximately $42.5 million.Goodwill and IntangiblesGoodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the amount assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. At the time of an acquisition, we allocate the goodwill and related assets and liabilities to our respective reporting units. We identify our reporting units by assessing whether the components of our operating segments constitute businesses for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of those components.Indefinite lived intangibles are recorded at fair market value on their acquisition date and include trademarks and foreign regulatory accreditations and designations. The substantial majority of our indefinite lived intangibles consist of trademarks acquired in the BPP and Carnegie Learning acquisitions. We assign indefinite lives to intangibles that we believe have the continued ability to generate cash flows indefinitely; have no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors limiting the useful life of the respective intangible; and when we intend to renew the respective intangible and renewal can be accomplished at little cost.We assess goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles at least annually for impairment or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change between annual tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the respective reporting unit or indefinite lived intangible below its carrying amount. We perform our annual indefinite lived intangibles impairment tests on the same dates that we perform our annual goodwill impairment tests for the respective reporting units. With the early adoption in fiscal year 2012 of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011 08, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment, and ASU No. 2012 02, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment, we have updated our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible impairment tests to include an option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or asset, as applicable, is less than its carrying amount. For goodwill, if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount based on our qualitative assessment, or that 63Table of Contentsa qualitative assessment should not be performed for a reporting unit, we proceed with performing the two step quantitative goodwill impairment test. In the first step, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value of its net assets. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, we perform a second step which involves using a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill and compare it to the carrying value of the goodwill. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount of the goodwill. For indefinite lived intangibles that we elect to not perform the qualitative assessment or that we conclude are more likely than not to be impaired based on our qualitative assessment, we compare the estimated fair value of the intangible with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Our goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles by reporting unit are summarized below:($ in thousands)AnnualImpairment Test Date Goodwill as of August 31, Indefinite lived Intangibles as of August 31,2012 20112012 2011University of Phoenix(1)May 31 $71,812 $37,018 $14,100 $Apollo Global BPP(2)July 1 50,694 86,410 97,662ULAMay 31 14,642 15,591 2,352 2,504Western International UniversityMay 31 1,581 1,581 UNIACC(3)May 31 13,103 998 5,311Other CFFPAugust 31 15,310 15,310 Total $103,345 $133,297 $103,860 $105,477(1) During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we acquired Carnegie Learning, which resulted in recognizing $34.8 million of goodwill and a $14.1 million trademark intangible. Refer to Note 5, Acquisitions, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.(2) During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, BPP sold MPW, which included the allocation of BPPs remaining goodwill and the MPW trademark intangible of $45.3 million and $7.9 million, respectively. Refer to Note 4, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.(3) We recorded a $16.8 million impairment charge for UNIACCs goodwill and other intangibles during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. See further discussion below.The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis, including identifying our reporting units, identifying and allocating assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units, performing an optional qualitative assessment, and determining the fair value of our reporting units or intangibles, as applicable. Our goodwill testing process may include the use of industry accepted valuation methods, involvement of various levels of management in different operating functions to review and approve certain criteria and assumptions and, in certain instances, engaging third party valuation specialists to assist with our analysis.If we elect to perform an optional qualitative analysis for certain reporting units as part of our goodwill impairment testing or for certain indefinite lived intangibles, we consider many factors in the analysis, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, industry and market conditions, the Companys stock price, financial performance and key business drivers of the reporting unit, long term operating plans, and potential changes to significant assumptions used in the most recent fair value analysis for either the reporting unit or respective intangible. We primarily use an income based approach consisting of a discounted cash flow valuation method to determine the fair value of our reporting units. We also consider a market based approach or a combination of both methods. The discounted cash flow valuation method consists of projecting future cash flows for a reporting unit, which may include developing one or multiple sets of cash flow scenarios and applying a reasonable weighting to those scenarios, calculating a terminal value, and discounting such cash flows by a risk adjusted rate of return. Generally, the market based approach incorporates information from comparable transactions in the market and publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics of the reporting unit to develop a multiple which is then applied to the operating performance of the reporting unit to determine value. The determination of fair value of our reporting units consists primarily of using unobservable inputs under the fair value measurement standards.64Table of ContentsWe believe the most critical assumptions and estimates in determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units, include, but are not limited to, the amounts and timing of expected future cash flows for each reporting unit, the probability weightings assigned to cash flow scenarios, the discount rate applied to those cash flows, terminal growth rates, selection of comparable market multiples and applying weighting factors when a combination of valuation methods is used. The assumptions used in determining our expected future cash flows consider various factors such as historical operating trends particularly in student enrollment and pricing, the political environment the reporting unit operates in, anticipated economic and regulatory conditions, accreditation status and reasonable expectations for planned business, and operating strategies and initiatives over a long term planning horizon. The discount rate used by each reporting unit is based on our assumption of a prudent investors required rate of return of assuming the risk of investing in a particular company in a specific country. The terminal growth rate reflects the sustainable operating income a reporting unit could generate in a perpetual state as a function of revenue growth, inflation and future margin expectations. We also believe the assumptions used in our goodwill impairment tests are consistent with a reasonable market participant view while employing the concept of highest and best use of the asset.We use the relief from royalty method to determine the fair value of our trademark intangibles as part of our annual testing process, if applicable. This method estimates the benefit of owning the intangibles rather than paying royalties for the right to use a comparable asset. This method incorporates the use of significant judgments in determining both the projected revenues attributable to the asset, as well as the appropriate discount rate and royalty rates applied to those revenues to determine fair value. The determination of fair value of our indefinite lived intangibles consists primarily of using unobservable inputs under the fair value measurement standards.If our critical assumptions discussed above deteriorate or are adversely impacted, a lower fair value assessment may result, which could lead to potential goodwill and indefinite lived intangible impairments in the future.Fiscal Year 2012 Impairment TestingWe completed our annual goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles impairment tests for each of our reporting units during fiscal year 2012, as applicable. For our UNIACC reporting unit, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, which resulted in recognizing goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges, as further discussed below. We did not record any impairment charges associated with our other reporting units. For University of Phoenix, Western International University and CFFP, we performed qualitative assessments that included consideration of the factors discussed above. We also considered that the fair value of these reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values in their most recent annual tests by a substantial margin, including more than 90% for University of Phoenix. Based on our assessments, we concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit was greater than its carrying value.For our ULA reporting unit, we performed the step one quantitative goodwill impairment test and determined the fair value exceeded the carrying value of its net assets and its goodwill was not impaired. The excess as a percentage of fair value was approximately 25%. We determined the fair value of our ULA reporting unit by using a discounted cash flow valuation method. The key assumptions used in our ULA goodwill impairment analysis include projected net revenue growth through ULAs working learner educational programs offered through a blend of on campus and online modalities, a discount rate of 15.5% and a terminal growth rate of 5%. For sensitivity purposes, a 100 basis point change in either of these assumptions would not have resulted in the carrying value exceeding the fair value for our ULA reporting unit as of the May 31, 2012 annual impairment test date.For our UNIACC reporting unit, we revised our cash flow estimates and performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 resulting from the uncertainty and other factors associated with UNIACCs institutional accreditation. Refer to Fiscal Year 2012 Significant Events UNIACC Accreditation in this MD&A. To determine the fair value of the UNIACC reporting unit in our interim step one analysis, we used a discounted cash flow valuation method using assumptions that we believe would be a reasonable market participants view of the impact of the loss of accreditation status and the increased uncertainty impacting UNIACC. We used significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) in our discounted cash flow valuation. Our interim step one goodwill impairment analysis resulted in a lower estimated fair value for the UNIACC reporting unit as compared to its carrying value. Based on the estimated fair value of the UNIACC reporting unit and a hypothetical purchase price allocation, we determined the UNIACC reporting unit would have no implied goodwill. Additionally, our interim impairment tests for the trademark and accreditation intangibles utilized the same significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) and assumptions used in UNIACCs interim goodwill analysis and resulted in minimal or no fair value. Accordingly, we determined UNIACCs entire goodwill balance and the trademark and accreditation indefinite lived intangibles totaling $11.9 million and $3.9 million, respectively, were impaired. We also recorded a $1.0 million impairment for certain finite lived intangibles. We did not record an income tax benefit associated with these charges as UNIACCs goodwill and other intangibles are not deductible for tax purposes. 65Table of ContentsAs of August 31, 2012 and 2011, our indefinite lived intangibles totaled $103.9 million and $105.5 million, respectively, and primarily consist of the BPP and Carnegie Learning trademarks of $80.7 million and $14.1 million, respectively. Excluding UNIACC, which is discussed above, we performed a fair value analysis for our indefinite lived intangibles as of the respective annual impairment test dates during fiscal year 2012 and determined there was no impairment. With respect to BPPs trademark, we estimated fair value using the relief from royalty valuation method utilizing moderate revenue growth rate assumptions, a discount rate of 12.5% and a terminal growth rate of 3%. For sensitivity purposes, a 100 basis point change in the discount rate and terminal growth rate assumptions would not have resulted in impairment as of the July 1, 2012 annual impairment test date.Finite lived intangibles that are acquired in business combinations are recorded at fair market value on their acquisition date and are amortized on either a straight line basis or using an accelerated method to reflect the pattern in which the economic benefits of the asset are consumed. As of August 31, 2012 and 2011, our finite lived intangibles totaled $45.2 million and $15.6 million, respectively, and primarily consist of $34.2 million of software and technology that was acquired in the Carnegie Learning acquisition in fiscal year 2012. The weighted average useful life of our finite lived intangibles that are not fully amortized as of August 31, 2012 is 4.8 years.Other Long Lived Asset ImpairmentsWe evaluate the carrying amount of our major other long lived assets, including property and equipment and finite lived intangibles, whenever changes in circumstances or events indicate that the value of such assets may not be fully recoverable. Excluding the impairment charge discussed above for the UNIACC reporting unit, we did not recognize any impairment charges for our other long lived assets during fiscal year 2012. As of August 31, 2012, we believe the carrying amounts of our remaining other long lived assets are fully recoverable and no impairment exists.Loss ContingenciesWe are subject to various claims and contingencies which are in the scope of ordinary and routine litigation incidental to our business, including those related to regulation, litigation, business transactions, employee related matters and taxes, among others. When we become aware of a claim or potential claim, the likelihood of any loss or exposure is assessed. If it is probable that a loss will result and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the loss. The liability recorded includes probable and estimable legal costs incurred to date and future legal costs to the point in the legal matter where we believe a conclusion to the matter will be reached. If the loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated, we disclose the claim if the likelihood of a potential loss is reasonably possible and the amount of the potential loss could be material. For matters where no loss contingency is recorded, we expense legal fees as incurred. The assessment of the likelihood of a potential loss and the estimation of the amount of a loss are subjective and require judgment.Income TaxesWe are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. As a result, significant judgments and interpretations are required in determining our provision for income taxes and evaluating our uncertain tax positions.The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the new rate is enacted. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized.We evaluate and account for uncertain tax positions using a two step approach. Recognition (step one) occurs when we conclude that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. Measurement (step two) determines the amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Derecognition of a tax position that was previously recognized would occur when we subsequently determine that a tax position no longer meets the more likely than not threshold of being sustained. We classify interest and penalties accrued in connection with unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Our total unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, were $32.2 million and $25.8 million as of August 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Share Based CompensationWe measure and recognize compensation expense for all share based awards issued to faculty, employees and directors based on estimated fair values of the share awards on the date of grant. We record compensation expense, net of forfeitures, for all 66Table of Contentsshare based awards over the requisite service period using the straight line method for awards with only a service condition, and the graded vesting attribution method for awards with service and performance conditions.We calculate the fair value of share based awards on the date of grant. For stock options, we typically use the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model to estimate fair value. The Black Scholes Merton option pricing model requires us to estimate key assumptions such as expected term, volatility, risk free interest rates and dividend yield to determine the fair value of stock options, based on both historical information and management judgment regarding market factors and trends. We used the following weighted average assumptions for stock options granted in the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31, 2012 2011 2010Weighted average fair value$14.10 $16.71 $17.30Expected volatility46.6% 46.8% 48.6%Expected term4.3 4.2 4.2Risk free interest rate0.6% 1.4% 1.5%Dividend yield0.0% 0.0% 0.0%Expected Volatility We estimate expected volatility based on a weighted average of our historical volatility and the implied volatility of long lived call options. We believe this method is the most representative of expected volatility and future stock price trends. Expected Term The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding. Prior to fiscal year 2011, we generally used the simplified mid point method to estimate the expected term of stock options based on our determination that the terms and exercise behavior of our stock options had changed significantly in recent periods, causing our historical exercise data to not be reflective of our expectations of future exercise behavior. The simplified method uses the mid point between the vesting and contractual terms of the stock options. In fiscal years 2012 and 2011, we estimated the expected term of our stock options granted based primarily on the vesting period of the awards and historical exercise behavior, which did not result in a significant change in our expected term assumption compared to prior years. Risk Free Interest Rate We use the U.S. constant maturity treasury rates as the risk free rate interpolated between the years commensurate with the expected life assumptions.Dividend Yield We have determined our dividend yield assumption by considering that we have not historically paid dividends and we have no current plan to pay dividends in the near term.The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value of the stock option grants and therefore, associated expense, are the expected term and expected volatility. The following table illustrates how changes to these assumptions would affect the weighted average fair value per option as of the grant date for the 176,000 options granted during fiscal year 2012: Expected VolatilityExpected Term (Years)41.9% 46.6% 51.3%3.8$12.10 $13.31 $14.504.312.83 14.10 15.344.813.52 14.84 16.13For share based awards with performance conditions, we measure the fair value of such awards as of the date of grant and amortize share based compensation expense for our estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. Our estimate of the number of shares that will vest is based on our determination of the probable outcome of the performance condition, which requires considerable judgment. We record a cumulative adjustment to share based compensation expense in periods that we change our estimate of the number of shares expected to vest. Additionally, we ultimately adjust the expense recognized to reflect the actual vested shares following the resolution of the performance conditions.We estimate expected forfeitures of share based awards at the grant date and recognize compensation cost only for those awards expected to vest. We estimate our forfeiture rate based on several factors including historical forfeiture activity, expected future employee turnover, and other qualitative factors. We ultimately adjust this forfeiture assumption to actual forfeitures. Therefore, changes in the forfeiture assumptions do not impact the total amount of expense ultimately recognized over the requisite service period. Rather, different forfeiture assumptions only impact the timing of expense recognition over the requisite service period. If the actual forfeitures differ from management estimates, additional adjustments to compensation expense are recorded.67Table of ContentsRecent Accounting PronouncementsRefer to Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for recent accounting pronouncements.Results of OperationsWe have included below a discussion of our operating results and significant items explaining the material changes in our operating results during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010. We have made certain reclassifications to the fiscal year 2011 and 2010 results of operations associated with our presentation of Mander Portman Woodward as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 4, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.As discussed in the Overview of this MD&A, we believe some of our initiatives to enhance the student experience and outcomes have contributed to the decline in University of Phoenix enrollment. Despite the current adverse effects on our enrollment and operating results, we believe that many of these initiatives have improved the student experience and will enhance student outcomes. Furthermore, we believe that over the long term, these initiatives will reduce the risks to our business associated with the regulatory environment and position us for more stable growth.Our operations are generally subject to seasonal trends. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in our results of operations as a result of seasonal variations in the level of our institutions enrollments. Although University of Phoenix enrolls students throughout the year, its net revenue is generally lower in our second fiscal quarter (December through February) than the other quarters due to holiday breaks.We categorize our operating expenses as follows:Instructional and student advisory consist primarily of costs related to the delivery and administration of our educational programs and include costs related to faculty, student advisory and administrative compensation, classroom and administration lease expenses (including facilities that are shared and support both instructional and admissions functions), financial aid processing costs, costs related to the development of our educational programs and other related costs. Tuition costs for all employees and their eligible family members are recorded as an expense within instructional and student advisory.Marketing the substantial majority of costs consist of advertising expenses, compensation for marketing personnel including personnel responsible for establishing relationships with selected employers, which we refer to as our Workforce Solutions team, and production of marketing materials. The category also includes other costs directly related to marketing functions.Admissions advisory the substantial majority of costs consist of compensation for admissions personnel. The category also includes other costs directly related to admissions advisory functions.General and administrative consist primarily of corporate compensation, occupancy costs, legal and professional fees, and other related costs.Depreciation and amortization consist of depreciation expense on our property and equipment and amortization of our finite lived intangibles.Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable consist of expense charged to reduce our accounts receivable to our estimate of the amount we expect to collect.68Table of ContentsFiscal Year 2012 Compared to Fiscal Year 2011 Analysis of Consolidated Statements of IncomeThe table below details our consolidated results of operations. For a more detailed discussion by reportable segment, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment. Year Ended August 31, % Change % of Net Revenue ($ in thousands)2012 2011 2012 2011 Net revenue$4,253,337 $4,711,049 100.0 % 100.0 % (9.7)%Costs and expenses: Instructional and student advisory1,800,569 1,759,986 42.3 % 37.4 % 2.3 %Marketing663,442 654,399 15.6 % 13.9 % 1.4 %Admissions advisory383,935 415,386 9.0 % 8.8 % (7.6)%General and administrative344,300 355,548 8.1 % 7.5 % (3.2)%Depreciation and amortization177,804 157,686 4.2 % 3.3 % 12.8 %Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable146,742 181,297 3.5 % 3.9 % (19.1)%Restructuring and other charges38,695 22,913 0.9 % 0.5 % 68.9 %Goodwill and other intangibles impairment16,788 219,927 0.4 % 4.7 % *Litigation charge (credit), net4,725 (11,951) 0.1 % (0.3)% *Total costs and expenses3,577,000 3,755,191 84.1 % 79.7 % (4.7)%Operating income676,337 955,858 15.9 % 20.3 % (29.2)%Interest income1,187 2,884 0.1 % % (58.8)%Interest expense(11,745) (8,931) (0.3)% (0.2)% (31.5)%Other, net476 (1,588) % % *Income from continuing operations before income taxes666,255 948,223 15.7 % 20.1 % (29.7)%Provision for income taxes(283,072) (419,136) (6.7)% (8.9)% 32.5 %Income from continuing operations383,183 529,087 9.0 % 11.2 % (27.6)%Income from discontinued operations, net of tax33,823 6,709 0.8 % 0.2 % *Net income417,006 535,796 9.8 % 11.4 % (22.2)%Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests5,672 36,631 0.1 % 0.8 % (84.5)%Net income attributable to Apollo$422,678 $572,427 9.9 % 12.2 % (26.2)%* not meaningfulNet RevenueOur net revenue decreased $457.7 million, or 9.7%, in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011. The decrease was primarily attributable to University of Phoenixs 10.2% decrease in net revenue principally due to lower University of Phoenix enrollment, partially offset by selective tuition price and other fee changes. Refer to further discussion of net revenue by reportable segment below at Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment.Instructional and Student AdvisoryInstructional and student advisory increased $40.6 million, or 2.3% in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011, which represents a 490 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in expense was primarily related to our various initiatives to more effectively support our students and enhance their educational outcomes, including investments in adaptive learning, curriculum development, the new learning and service platforms, and initiatives to connect education to careers. This was partially offset by a decrease in costs that are more variable in nature such as faculty and certain student advisory functions.69Table of ContentsMarketingMarketing increased $9.0 million, or 1.4%, in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011, which represents a 170 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in expense was principally attributable to higher employee compensation costs and other costs, including expense related to building employer relationships. This was partially offset by lower advertising costs attributable in part to reducing our use of third party operated Internet sites.Admissions AdvisoryAdmissions advisory decreased $31.5 million, or 7.6%, in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011, which represents a 20 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in expense was principally attributable to lower admissions advisory headcount, partially offset by higher average employee compensation costs.General and AdministrativeGeneral and administrative expenses decreased $11.2 million, or 3.2%, in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011, which represents a 60 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in expense was principally attributable to lower employee compensation costs and a reduction in legal costs in connection with defending ourselves in various legal matters.Depreciation and AmortizationDepreciation and amortization increased $20.1 million, or 12.8%, in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011, which represents a 90 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase was principally attributable to $12.0 million of intangibles amortization in fiscal year 2012 as a result of the Carnegie Learning acquisition, and increased capital expenditures and capital leases in recent years primarily related to information technology. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in amortization of BPP intangibles. Provision for Uncollectible Accounts ReceivableProvision for uncollectible accounts receivable decreased $34.6 million, or 19.1%, in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011, which represents a 40 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease was primarily attributable to the following:reductions in gross accounts receivable principally resulting from decreases in University of Phoenix Degreed Enrollment. Refer to further discussion below in Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment; andimproved collection rates for aged receivables at University of Phoenix. The improved collection rates are due in part to initiatives University of Phoenix implemented in fiscal year 2011 to improve its related processes.Restructuring and Other ChargesWe have initiated a series of activities to reengineer business processes and refine our educational delivery structure. These activities are designed to increase operating efficiencies and effectiveness, and enhance our students educational experience and outcomes. The following table details the charges incurred during the respective fiscal years, and the cumulative costs associated with these activities: Year Ended August 31, Cumulative Costs for Restructuring Activities($ in thousands)2012 2011 Non cancelable lease obligations and related costs, net$15,981 $19,067 $35,048Severance and other employee separation costs12,887 3,846 16,733Other restructuring related costs9,827 9,827Restructuring and other charges$38,695 $22,913 $61,60870Table of ContentsThe following table summarizes the above restructuring and other charges in our segment reporting format: Year Ended August 31, Cumulative Costs for Restructuring Activities($ in thousands)2012 2011 University of Phoenix$20,002 $22,913 $42,915Apollo Global5,918 5,918Other12,775 12,775Restructuring and other charges$38,695 $22,913 $61,608During fiscal year 2011, we initiated a plan to rationalize a portion of our real estate in Phoenix, Arizona through space consolidation and reorganization. The plan consisted of abandoning all, or a portion of, four leased facilities, all of which we are no longer using and we have determined will no longer provide a future economic benefit. The leases on these facilities were classified as operating leases and we recorded initial aggregate charges of $38.7 million on the respective cease use dates representing the fair value of our future contractual lease obligations. We measured the lease obligations at fair value using a discounted cash flow approach encompassing significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). The estimation of future cash flows includes non cancelable contractual lease costs over the remaining terms of the leases, partially offset by estimated future sublease rental income, which involves significant judgment. Our estimate of the amount and timing of sublease rental income considered subleases that we have executed and subleases we expect to execute, current commercial real estate market data and conditions, comparable transaction data and qualitative factors specific to the facilities. The estimates will be subject to adjustment as market conditions change or as new information becomes available, including the execution of additional sublease agreements. Excluding adjustments resulting from changes in estimates and interest accretion charges, we do not expect to incur additional charges associated with the facilities abandoned in connection with this real estate rationalization plan.During fiscal years 2012 and 2011, we implemented the following strategic reductions in workforce:During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we eliminated approximately 350 positions at University of Phoenix, Apollo Global and certain Corporate functions. We incurred $10.2 million of severance and other employee separation costs including share based compensation, which are included in the reportable segments in which the respective eliminated personnel were employed.During the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, we eliminated approximately 150 positions at UNIACC principally representing non direct student servicing personnel. This personnel reduction followed UNIACCs loss of institutional accreditation, which is discussed further at Overview Fiscal Year 2012 Significant Events in this MD&A. We incurred $2.7 million of severance and other employee separation costs, which are included in our Apollo Global reportable segment. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we eliminated approximately 700 full time positions at University of Phoenix principally representing admissions personnel. We incurred $3.8 million of severance and other employee separation costs, which are included in our University of Phoenix reportable segment.We incurred $9.8 million of costs during fiscal year 2012 principally attributable to services from consulting firms associated with our initiatives to evaluate and identify operating efficiency and effectiveness opportunities. As these services pertain to all areas of our business, we have not allocated these costs to our reportable segments and they are included in Other in our segment reporting.Subsequent to August 31, 2012, we continued our initiative to reengineer business processes and refine our educational delivery structure. These activities, including the actions discussed below, are expected to favorably impact annual operating expenses by at least $300 million by fiscal year 2014, when compared to fiscal year 2012. We expect to realize more than half of these cumulative cost savings in fiscal year 2013, with the remainder in fiscal year 2014.University of Phoenix is realigning its ground locations throughout the U.S., which will directly impact approximately 4% of Degreed Enrollment, or around 13,000 students. These students will be offered support to continue their education at University of Phoenix either online, through alternative on ground arrangements or, in limited cases, at existing University of Phoenix locations. This plan includes closing 115 locations, consisting of 90 learning and student resource centers, which are generally smaller satellite locations, and 25 campuses. University of Phoenix will preserve a national coast to coast network of 112 locations and plans to retain a presence in 36 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Subject to regulatory approvals, the realignment is expected to be substantially complete in fiscal year 2013. We expect to incur approximately $175 million of restructuring and other charges, principally for lease exit and other related costs, with most of these costs incurred in fiscal year 2013. We plan to continue investing 71Table of Contentsin our ground locations to create state of the art, technologically integrated facilities offering academic and career support and increased mobile connectivity, while also continuing to advance our leading edge online learning platform.We also have begun implementing a workforce reduction and expect to decrease total headcount, excluding faculty, by approximately 800 employees during fiscal year 2013. We anticipate incurring approximately $25 million of restructuring and other charges in fiscal year 2013 related to workforce reductions.Goodwill and Other Intangibles ImpairmentDuring fiscal year 2012, we recorded impairment charges of UNIACCs goodwill and other intangibles of $11.9 million and $4.9 million, respectively. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in this MD&A. During fiscal year 2011, we recorded impairment charges of BPPs goodwill and other intangibles of $197.7 million and $22.2 million, respectively.Litigation Charge (Credit), NetDuring fiscal year 2012, we recorded a $4.7 million charge reflecting a rejected settlement offer we made in connection with the Patent Infringement Litigation and estimated future legal costs that we may incur in this matter. We recorded a net credit of $16.2 million in fiscal year 2011 principally due to an agreement in principle to settle the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). This was partially offset by a charge in fiscal year 2011 of an immaterial amount associated with another legal matter. Refer to Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Interest IncomeInterest income decreased $1.7 million in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011 principally attributable to lower average cash balances during fiscal year 2012.Interest ExpenseInterest expense increased $2.8 million in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011 principally attributable to an increase in capital lease obligations, and interest accretion on our obligation to Carnegie Mellon University. Refer to Note 5, Acquisitions, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further discussion.Other, NetOther, net in fiscal years 2012 and 2011 primarily consists of net foreign currency gains and losses related to our international operations. Provision for Income TaxesOur income tax rate for continuing operations was 42.5% and 44.2% for fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decrease was primarily attributable to the BPP goodwill and other intangibles impairment in fiscal year 2011 discussed above. This was partially offset by the following:a $43.3 million tax benefit realized in fiscal year 2011 due to resolution with the Arizona Department of Revenue regarding the apportionment of income for Arizona corporate income tax purposes. The realized benefit encompassed fiscal year 2011 and prior years. The settlement also provided an agreed upon sales factor sourcing methodology through 2020. Refer to Note 12, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data;a $9.6 million tax benefit recorded in fiscal year 2011 associated with resolution with the Internal Revenue Service regarding the deductibility of payments made to settle a lawsuit in fiscal year 2010;a $7.3 million tax benefit related to the closure of Meritus in fiscal year 2011; andthe $16.8 million nondeductible UNIACC goodwill and other intangibles impairment in fiscal year 2012 discussed above.Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during fiscal year 2012 represents the $26.7 million gain on sale of BPPs subsidiary MPW and its operating results through the date of sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. We did not record any tax expense on the gain because it was not taxable under United Kingdom tax law. The income, net of tax, during fiscal year 2011 represents MPWs operating results and our Insight Schools business through its date of sale in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Refer to Note 4, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.72Table of ContentsNet Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling InterestsThe decrease in net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests during fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011 was principally attributable to Apollo Globals noncontrolling shareholders portion of the following:BPPs $219.9 million goodwill and other intangibles impairment in fiscal year 2011; andthe $26.7 million gain on sale of BPPs subsidiary MPW. This was partially offset by Apollo Globals noncontrolling shareholders portion of UNIACCs $16.8 million goodwill and other intangibles impairment in fiscal year 2012.Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable SegmentThe table below details our operating results by reportable segment for the periods indicated: Year Ended August 31, $ Change % Change($ in thousands)2012 2011 Net revenue University of Phoenix$3,882,980 $4,322,670 $(439,690) (10.2)%Apollo Global295,027 298,008 (2,981) (1.0)%Other75,330 90,371 (15,041) (16.6)%Total net revenue$4,253,337 $4,711,049 $(457,712) (9.7)%Operating income (loss) University of Phoenix$833,509 $1,270,468 $(436,959) (34.4)%Apollo Global(75,768) (267,471) 191,703 71.7 %Other(81,404) (47,139) (34,265) (72.7)%Total operating income$676,337 $955,858 $(279,521) (29.2)%University of PhoenixThe $439.7 million, or 10.2%, decrease in net revenue in our University of Phoenix segment was primarily attributable to lower enrollment partially offset by selective tuition price and other fee changes implemented in July 2011 and 2012, which varied by geographic area, program, and degree level. In aggregate, the July 2011 and 2012 tuition price and other fee changes were generally in the range of 3 5%. In addition, we experienced a favorable mix shift in our Average Degreed Enrollment toward higher degree level programs, which generally provide higher net revenue per student. We anticipate increased use of targeted discounts and scholarships intended to increase New Degreed Enrollment and improve student retention; however, such initiatives may negatively impact near term net revenue. Future net revenue will also be impacted by changes in enrollment and student mix within programs and degree levels.The following table details University of Phoenix enrollment for fiscal years 2012 and 2011: Average Degreed Enrollment(1) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment(1), (4) Year EndedAugust 31, % Change Year EndedAugust 31, % Change(Rounded to the nearest hundred)2012(2) 2011(3) 2012 2011 Associates119,900 163,500 (26.7)% 88,100 90,500 (2.7)%Bachelors179,200 186,000 (3.7)% 93,700 94,900 (1.3)%Masters50,600 61,700 (18.0)% 32,000 33,600 (4.8)%Doctoral7,200 7,500 (4.0)% 2,900 2,900 %Total356,900 418,700 (14.8)% 216,700 221,900 (2.3)%(1) Refer to Item 1, Business, for definitions of Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment.(2) Represents the average of Degreed Enrollment for the quarters ended August 31, 2011, November 30, 2011, February 29, 2012, May 31, 2012 and August 31, 2012. (3) Represents the average of Degreed Enrollment for the quarters ended August 31, 2010, November 30, 2010, February 28, 2011, May 31, 2011 and August 31, 2011. (4) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment represents the sum of the four quarters New Degreed Enrollment in the respective fiscal years. 73Table of ContentsUniversity of Phoenix Average Degreed Enrollment decreased 14.8% in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011. Some of our initiatives to enhance the student experience and outcomes in recent years have contributed to this decline in enrollment. We believe New Degreed Enrollment also has been adversely impacted by the following additional factors:Changes in marketing content and channels to better identify potential students that we believe are more likely to succeed at University of Phoenix;Changes in economic conditions; andA robust competitive environment.Despite the current adverse effects on our enrollment and operating results, we believe that many of these initiatives have improved the student experience and will enhance student outcomes and, therefore, over the long term, will reduce the risks to our business associated with the regulatory environment and position us for more stable growth.Operating income in our University of Phoenix segment decreased $437.0 million, or 34.4%, during fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011. This decrease was primarily attributable to the following:The 10.2% decrease in University of Phoenix net revenue;Expenses associated with our various initiatives, including technology, to more effectively support our students and enhance their educational outcomes. These expenses include, but not limited to, amortization of intangible assets from the Carnegie Learning acquisition and purchase of related technology, and increased depreciation principally attributable to increased capital expenditures and capital leases in recent years primarily related to information technology; andHigher marketing employee compensation costs and other costs, including expense related to building employer relationships. The above factors were partially offset by the following:A decrease in bad debt expense as discussed above at Provision for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable.Lower headcount in admissions advisory and certain other functions; andLower costs that are more variable in nature such as faculty costs resulting from lower enrollment.Operating income was reduced by $20.0 million and $22.9 million of restructuring and other charges in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively.Apollo GlobalApollo Global net revenue decreased $3.0 million in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower enrollment at UNIACC. The decreased operating loss was due to the BPP $219.9 million goodwill and other intangibles impairment charge in fiscal year 2011. The decrease was also due to lower intangibles amortization at BPP in fiscal year 2012. These factors were partially offset by the following in fiscal year 2012:UNIACCs $16.8 million goodwill and other intangibles impairment;$5.9 million of restructuring and other charges; andIncreased costs associated with initiatives at BPP to expand and enhance certain educational offerings, particularly at BPP University College.OtherOther net revenue decreased $15.0 million in fiscal year 2012 compared to fiscal year 2011 primarily due to a decrease in the number of client institutions serviced by IPD. The decrease in IPDs client institutions is primarily due to significant modifications to IPDs business model to comply with new rules related to incentive compensation effective July 1, 2011. The increased operating loss was principally attributable to a net credit of $16.2 million in fiscal year 2011 primarily due to an agreement in principle to settle the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago), $12.8 million of restructuring and other charges in fiscal year 2012, and a decrease in IPDs operating income.74Table of ContentsFiscal Year 2011 Compared to Fiscal Year 2010 Analysis of Consolidated Statements of IncomeThe table below details our consolidated results of operations. For a more detailed discussion by reportable segment, refer to our Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment. Year Ended August 31, % of Net Revenue % Change($ in thousands)2011 2010 2011 2010 Net revenue$4,711,049 $4,906,613 100.0 % 100.0 % (4.0)%Costs and expenses: Instructional and student advisory1,759,986 1,720,059 37.4 % 35.0 % 2.3 %Marketing654,399 622,848 13.9 % 12.7 % 5.1 %Admissions advisory415,386 466,358 8.8 % 9.5 % (10.9)%General and administrative355,548 301,116 7.5 % 6.1 % 18.1 %Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable181,297 282,628 3.9 % 5.8 % (35.9)%Depreciation and amortization157,686 142,337 3.3 % 2.9 % 10.8 %Goodwill and other intangibles impairment219,927 184,570 4.7 % 3.8 % *Restructuring and other charges22,913 0.5 % % *Litigation (credit) charge, net(11,951) 177,982 (0.3)% 3.6 % *Total costs and expenses3,755,191 3,897,898 79.7 % 79.4 % (3.7)%Operating income955,858 1,008,715 20.3 % 20.6 % (5.2)%Interest income2,884 2,920 % 0.1 % (1.2)%Interest expense(8,931) (11,864) (0.2)% (0.3)% 24.7 %Other, net(1,588) (685) % % *Income from continuing operations before income taxes948,223 999,086 20.1 % 20.4 % (5.1)%Provision for income taxes(419,136) (463,619) (8.9)% (9.5)% 9.6 %Income from continuing operations529,087 535,467 11.2 % 10.9 % (1.2)%Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax6,709 (13,886) 0.2 % (0.3)% *Net income535,796 521,581 11.4 % 10.6 % 2.7 %Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests36,631 31,421 0.8 % 0.7 % 16.6 %Net income attributable to Apollo$572,427 $553,002 12.2 % 11.3 % 3.5 %* not meaningfulNet RevenueOur net revenue decreased $195.6 million, or 4.0%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010. The decrease was primarily attributable to University of Phoenixs 3.9% decrease in net revenue principally due to lower University of Phoenix enrollment, partially offset by selective tuition price and other fee changes. Refer to further discussion of net revenue by reportable segment below at Analysis of Operating Results by Reportable Segment.Instructional and Student AdvisoryInstructional and student advisory increased $39.9 million, or 2.3%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 240 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in expense was primarily due to various strategic initiatives implemented to more effectively support our students and improve their educational outcomes. These initiatives increased compensation related to many student advisory and infrastructure support functions, and increased curriculum development and delivery costs. These costs were partially offset by lower faculty costs resulting from lower University of Phoenix and Apollo Global enrollment.75Table of ContentsMarketingMarketing increased $31.6 million, or 5.1%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 120 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in expense was due to higher advertising expenditures resulting from increased investment in non Internet branding, and increased costs associated with our efforts to more effectively identify students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs. Additionally, advertising rates for traditional and online media increased due to more competition in the education sector and increases in advertising rates from improving general media market conditions.Admissions AdvisoryAdmissions advisory decreased $51.0 million, or 10.9%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 70 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease as a percentage of net revenue was a result of lower admissions advisory headcount partially attributable to a strategic reduction in workforce during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. The decrease in admissions advisory was partially offset by higher average employee compensation costs.General and AdministrativeGeneral and administrative expenses increased $54.4 million, or 18.1%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 140 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase as a percentage of net revenue was primarily attributable to higher employee compensation costs and expenses associated with investment in our information technology resources and capabilities.Provision for Uncollectible Accounts ReceivableProvision for uncollectible accounts receivable decreased $101.3 million, or 35.9%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 190 basis point decrease as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease was primarily attributable to the following:reductions in gross accounts receivable principally resulting from decreases in University of Phoenix enrollment;a decrease in the proportion of our receivables that are attributable to students enrolled in associates degree programs. Our collection rates for such students are generally lower compared to students enrolled in bachelors and graduate level programs;requiring substantially all students who enroll in University of Phoenix with fewer than 24 credits to first attend University Orientation; andimproved collection rates for aged receivables at University of Phoenix. The improved collection rates were in part due to initiatives University of Phoenix implemented in fiscal year 2011 to improve its related processes.Depreciation and AmortizationDepreciation and amortization increased $15.3 million, or 10.8%, in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, which represents a 40 basis point increase as a percentage of net revenue. The increase was primarily due to increased capital expenditures during fiscal years 2011 and 2010 related to information technology, network infrastructure, and software. This was partially offset by a decrease in amortization of BPP intangibles.Goodwill and Other Intangibles ImpairmentDuring fiscal year 2011, we recorded impairment charges of BPPs goodwill and other intangibles of $197.7 million and $22.2 million, respectively. During fiscal year 2010, we recorded goodwill impairment charges for BPP and ULA of $156.3 million and $8.7 million, respectively. We also recorded a $19.6 million impairment of BPPs other intangibles during fiscal year 2010.Restructuring and Other ChargesRestructuring and other charges during fiscal year 2011 included $19.1 million of expense associated with a plan to rationalize a portion of our real estate in Phoenix, Arizona, and $3.8 million of costs associated with a reduction in workforce. These charges are included in our University of Phoenix reportable segment. Refer to Fiscal Year 2012 Compared to Fiscal Year 2011 for further discussion of our restructuring activities. 76Table of ContentsLitigation (Credit) Charge, Net We recorded a net credit of $16.2 million in fiscal year 2011 principally due to an agreement in principle to settle the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). This was partially offset by a charge in fiscal year 2011 of an immaterial amount associated with another legal matter. In fiscal year 2010, we recorded $178.0 million of charges associated with the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). Refer to Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Interest IncomeInterest income was essentially flat in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010.Interest ExpenseInterest expense decreased $2.9 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 primarily due to a decrease in average borrowings at Apollo Globals subsidiaries.Other, NetOther, net in fiscal years 2011 and 2010 primarily consists of net foreign currency losses related to our international operations.Provision for Income TaxesOur income tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal year 2011 was 44.2% compared to 46.4% for fiscal year 2010. The decrease was primarily attributable to the following:Our state effective rate for fiscal year 2011 was 1.8% compared to 6.3% in fiscal year 2010. Prior to fiscal year 2011, our state effective rate was adversely affected by uncertainty related to the apportionment of income for Arizona corporate income tax purposes. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we reached a resolution with the Arizona Department of Revenue and realized a $43.3 million benefit that encompassed fiscal year 2011 and prior years. The settlement also provided an agreed upon sales factor sourcing methodology through 2020. Our state effective rate for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 would have been approximately 4.7% using an apportionment methodology consistent with our agreement with the Arizona Department of Revenue. Refer to Note 12, Income Taxes, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data;A $9.6 million tax benefit recorded in fiscal year 2011 associated with resolution with the Internal Revenue Service regarding the deductibility of payments made to settle a lawsuit in fiscal year 2010; andA $7.3 million tax benefit related to the closure of Meritus in fiscal year 2011.The decrease was partially offset by an $11.4 million tax benefit recorded in fiscal year 2010 associated with our settlement of a dispute with the Internal Revenue Service relating to the deduction of certain stock option compensation on our U.S. federal income tax returns beginning in fiscal year 2003. In addition, while our effective rate in both fiscal year 2011 and 2010 was adversely impacted by the non deductible goodwill impairment charges discussed above, this impact was greater in fiscal year 2011 as a percentage of pre tax book income.Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of TaxIncome (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, relates to BPPs MPW business and our Insight Schools business, which were sold in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. Refer to Note 4, Discontinued Operations, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling InterestsThe net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests during fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was primarily due to Apollo Globals noncontrolling shareholders portion of goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges discussed above.77Table of ContentsAnalysis of Operating Results by Reportable SegmentThe table below details our operating results by reportable segment for the periods indicated: Year Ended August 31, $ Change % Change($ in thousands)2011 2010 Net revenue University of Phoenix$4,322,670 $4,498,325 $(175,655) (3.9)%Apollo Global298,008 310,790 (12,782) (4.1)%Other90,371 97,498 (7,127) (7.3)%Total net revenue$4,711,049 $4,906,613 $(195,564) (4.0)%Operating income (loss) University of Phoenix$1,270,468 $1,447,636 $(177,168) (12.2)%Apollo Global(267,471) (219,708) (47,763) (21.7)%Other(47,139) (219,213) 172,074 78.5 %Total operating income$955,858 $1,008,715 $(52,857) (5.2)%University of PhoenixThe $175.7 million, or 3.9%, decrease in net revenue in our University of Phoenix segment was primarily attributable to lower enrollments partially offset by selective tuition price and other fee changes implemented July 1, 2010, which varied by geographic area, program, and degree level. In aggregate, these tuition price and other fee changes, including increased discounts to military veterans in selective programs, were generally in the range of 4 6%. In addition, we experienced a favorable mix shift in our Average Degreed Enrollment toward higher degree level programs, which generally provide higher net revenue per student.We also implemented selective tuition price and other fee changes at University of Phoenix depending on geographic area, program, and degree level that became effective July 1, 2011. These tuition price and other fee changes were generally in the range of 3 5%.The following table details University of Phoenix enrollment for fiscal years 2011 and 2010: Average Degreed Enrollment(1) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment(1), (4) Year EndedAugust 31, % Change Year EndedAugust 31, % Change(Rounded to the nearest hundred)2011(2) 2010(3) 2011 2010 Associates163,500 204,200 (19.9)% 90,500 187,700 (51.8)%Bachelors186,000 178,500 4.2 % 94,900 131,300 (27.7)%Masters61,700 70,800 (12.9)% 33,600 49,300 (31.8)%Doctoral7,500 7,400 1.4 % 2,900 3,400 (14.7)%Total418,700 460,900 (9.2)% 221,900 371,700 (40.3)%(1) Refer to item 1, Business, for definitions of Degreed Enrollment and New Degreed Enrollment.(2) Represents the average of Degreed Enrollment for the quarters ended August 31, 2010, November 30, 2010, February 28, 2011, May 31, 2011 and August 31, 2011. (3) Represents the average of Degreed Enrollment for the quarters ended August 31, 2009, November 30, 2009, February 28, 2010, May 31, 2010 and August 31, 2010. (4) Aggregate New Degreed Enrollment represents the sum of the four quarters New Degreed Enrollment in the respective fiscal years. 78Table of ContentsUniversity of Phoenix Average Degreed Enrollment decreased 9.2% in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 primarily due to the 40.3% decrease in aggregate New Degreed Enrollment. We believe the decreases in enrollment are primarily the result of our operational changes and initiatives to more effectively support our students and improve their educational outcomes including the following:Changes in the evaluation and compensation structure for our admissions personnel and other employees, including eliminating all enrollment factors in evaluating the performance and any related compensation adjustments for our admissions personnel effective September 1, 2010;The full implementation of University Orientation in November 2010; andOur efforts to more effectively identify students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs.In addition, we believe that the decline in enrollment was partly the result of a robust competitive environment.Operating income in our University of Phoenix segment decreased $177.2 million, or 12.2%, during fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease was primarily attributable to the following:The 3.9% decrease in University of Phoenix net revenue;Expenses associated with our various initiatives, including technology, to more effectively support our students and enhance their educational outcomes. These initiatives increased compensation related to many student advisory and infrastructure support functions, depreciation related to computer equipment and software, and curriculum development and delivery costs;An increase in marketing costs due to higher advertising expenditure resulting from increased investment in non Internet branding, and increased costs associated with our efforts to more effectively identify students who have a greater likelihood to succeed in our educational programs. Additionally, advertising rates for traditional and online media increased due to more competition in the education sector and increases in advertising rates from improving general media market conditions; and$22.9 million of restructuring and other charges as discussed above.The above factors were partially offset by the following:A decrease in bad debt expense as discussed above at Provision for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable.Lower headcount in admissions advisory and certain marketing functions; andLower faculty costs resulting from lower enrollment.Apollo GlobalThe $12.8 million decrease in Apollo Global net revenue during fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 was primarily attributable to BPP. The decrease at BPP was principally due to lower student enrollment. Apollo Globals operating loss in fiscal years 2011 and 2010 included goodwill and other intangibles impairment charges of $219.9 million and $184.6 million, respectively. The increased operating loss was also attributable to the decrease in BPP net revenue and higher marketing costs at the Apollo Global subsidiaries. This was partially offset by a $10.0 million decrease in intangibles amortization principally at BPP.OtherThe $7.1 million decrease in Other net revenue during fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010 was principally due to a decrease in the number of Client Institutions serviced by IPD. The decrease in IPDs Client Institutions is primarily due to significant modifications to IPDs business model to comply with new rules related to incentive compensation effective July 1, 2011. The decreased operating loss was principally attributable to $178.0 million of charges in fiscal year 2010 associated with the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago), and a net credit of $16.2 million in fiscal year 2011 associated with the same matter.79Table of ContentsLiquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial PositionWe believe that our cash and cash equivalents and available liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations through at least the next 12 months. We believe that the most strategic uses of our cash resources include investments in the continued enhancement and expansion of our student offerings, investments in opportunities that leverage our core expertise through acquisitions, the development of institutions of higher learning or other service offerings, share repurchases, and investments in information technology initiatives.Although we currently have substantial available liquidity, our ability to access the credit markets and other sources of liquidity may be adversely affected if we experience regulatory compliance challenges, reduced availability of Title IV funding or other funding sources, or other adverse effects on our business from regulatory or legislative changes. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors Risks Related to the Highly Regulated Industry in Which We Operate.Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash and Cash EquivalentsThe substantial majority of our cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash and cash equivalents, are held by our domestic subsidiaries and placed with high credit quality financial institutions. The following table provides a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash at August 31, 2012 and 2011: % of Total Assets at August 31, August 31, % Change($ in thousands)2012 2011 2012 2011 Cash and cash equivalents$1,276,375 $1,571,664 44.5% 48.1% (18.8)%Restricted cash and cash equivalents318,334 379,407 11.1% 11.6% (16.1)%Total$1,594,709 $1,951,071 55.6% 59.7% (18.3)%Cash and cash equivalents (excluding restricted cash) decreased $295.3 million primarily due to $811.9 million used for share repurchases, $115.2 million used for capital expenditures, and $73.7 million used for the purchase of Carnegie Learning. These items were partially offset by $551.3 million of cash provided by operations, $76.4 million of proceeds from dispositions, the substantial majority of which relates to our sale of MPW, $66.9 million of proceeds from borrowings (net of repayments on borrowings), and $11.9 million received from the issuance of our Class A common stock. Cash provided by operations in fiscal year 2012 decreased $345.8 million compared to fiscal year 2011 and was adversely impacted by our $145.0 million payment during fiscal year 2012 to settle the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago). Refer to Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We consider the unremitted earnings attributable to certain of our foreign subsidiaries to be permanently reinvested. As of August 31, 2012, any earnings related to these foreign subsidiaries are not significant. We measure our money market funds included in cash and restricted cash equivalents at fair value. At August 31, 2012, we had money market funds of $629.2 million. The money market funds were valued primarily using real time quotes for transactions in active exchange markets involving identical assets. We did not record any material adjustments to reflect these instruments at fair value.DebtRevolving Credit Facility During the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, we entered into a syndicated $625 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility), which replaced our previous revolving credit facility. The Revolving Credit Facility is used for general corporate purposes including acquisitions and share repurchases. The term is five years and will expire in April 2017. The Revolving Credit Facility may be used for borrowings in certain foreign currencies and letters of credit, in each case up to specified sublimits. We borrowed $615.0 million and had approximately $8 million of outstanding letters of credit under the Revolving Credit Facility as of August 31, 2012. We also borrowed substantially all of our credit line under our previous revolving credit facility as of August 31, 2011. We repaid the entire amount borrowed under the respective facilities subsequent to the respective fiscal years. The $615.0 million is classified as short term borrowings and current portion of long term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets because it was repaid subsequent to fiscal year end. The Revolving Credit Facility fees are determined based on a pricing grid that varies according to our leverage ratio. The Revolving Credit Facility fee ranges from 25 to 40 basis points. Incremental fees for borrowings under the facility generally range from LIBOR + 125 to 185 basis points. The weighted average interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the 80Table of ContentsRevolving Credit Facility and the previous revolving credit facility at August 31, 2012 and 2011 were 3.5% and 2.8%, respectively.The Revolving Credit Facility contains various customary representations, covenants and other provisions, including the following financial covenants: maximum leverage ratio, minimum coverage interest and rent expense ratio, and a U.S. Department of Education financial responsibility composite score. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants related to the Revolving Credit Facility at August 31, 2012.BPP Credit Facility In fiscal year 2010, we refinanced BPPs debt by entering into a 52.0 million (equivalent to $82.3 million as of August 31, 2012) secured credit agreement (the BPP Credit Facility), which will expire on August 31, 2013. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2012, we amended the BPP Credit Facility reducing the amount available under the facility to 39.0 million (equivalent to $61.7 million as of August 31, 2012). The BPP Credit Facility was used to refinance BPPs debt in fiscal year 2010 and for working capital and general corporate purposes. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we repaid substantially all of the outstanding debt on the BPP Credit Facility. The amended BPP Credit Facility contains financial covenants that include a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, which we were in compliance with as of August 31, 2012. The interest rate on borrowings is LIBOR + 175 basis points. The weighted average interest rate on BPPs outstanding borrowings at August 31, 2012 and 2011 was 2.5% and 4.0%, respectively.Other As of August 31, 2012, other debt includes the present value of our obligation to Carnegie Mellon University, which is discussed further at Note 5, Acquisitions, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Other debt also includes $8.5 million of variable rate debt and $9.5 million of fixed rate debt as of August 31, 2012, and $9.1 million of variable rate debt and $12.5 million of fixed rate debt as of August 31, 2011. Excluding our obligation to Carnegie Mellon University, the weighted average interest rate on our other debt at August 31, 2012 and 2011 was 5.1% and 6.1%, respectively.Cash FlowsOperating ActivitiesThe following table provides a summary of our operating cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31,($ in thousands)2012 2011 2010Net income$417,006 $535,796 $521,581Non cash items400,411 650,747 719,453Changes in assets and liabilities, excluding the impact of acquisitions and business dispositions(266,117) (289,421) (207,792)Net cash provided by operating activities$551,300 $897,122 $1,033,242Fiscal year 2012 Our non cash items primarily consisted of $178.2 million of depreciation and amortization, a $146.7 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $78.7 million of share based compensation, $21.9 million of deferred income taxes and $16.8 million for goodwill and other intangibles impairments. These items were partially offset by a $26.7 million gain on the sale of MPW. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of the following: a $129.8 million use of cash related to the change in accounts receivable, excluding the provision for uncollectible accounts receivable;a $109.8 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities principally attributable to our $145.0 million payment to settle the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago), which was partially offset by an increase in our restructuring liability; anddecreases in student deposits and deferred revenue of $58.7 million and $39.2 million, respectively, principally attributable to the enrollment decline at University of Phoenix.The above changes were partially offset by a $61.1 million decrease in restricted cash and cash equivalents principally attributable to the enrollment decline at University of Phoenix.81Table of ContentsFiscal year 2011 Our non cash items primarily consisted of $219.9 million for goodwill and other intangibles impairments, a$181.3 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $159.0 million for depreciation and amortization, $70.0 million for share based compensation and $55.8 million of deferred income taxes. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of the following:a $121.1 million use of cash related to the change in accounts receivable, excluding the provision for uncollectible accounts receivable;decreases in deferred revenue and student deposits of $79.5 million and $70.1 million, respectively, principally attributable to the enrollment decline at University of Phoenix; anda $44.4 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities principally attributable to a decrease in our uncertain tax positions.The above changes were partially offset by a $64.7 million decrease in restricted cash and cash equivalents principally attributable to the enrollment decline at University of Phoenix.Fiscal year 2010 Our non cash items primarily consisted of a $282.6 million provision for uncollectible accounts receivable, $194.0 million for goodwill and other intangibles impairments including Insight Schools goodwill impairment included in discontinued operations, $178.0 million for charges associated with the Securities Class Action (Policemans Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago), $147.0 million for depreciation and amortization, and $64.3 million for share based compensation. This was partially offset by $125.4 million of deferred income taxes. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $266.0 million increase in gross accounts receivable principally due to increased enrollment and tuition price increases at University of Phoenix, partially offset by a $32.9 million increase in deferred revenue primarily due to increased enrollment; and a $21.6 million increase in accounts payable.We monitor our accounts receivable through a variety of metrics, including days sales outstanding. We calculate our days sales outstanding by determining average daily student revenue based on a rolling twelve month analysis and divide it into the gross student accounts receivable balance as of the end of the period. As of August 31, 2012 excluding accounts receivable and the related net revenue for Apollo Global, our days sales outstanding was 22 days as compared to 23 days as of August 31, 2011. The decrease in days sales outstanding was primarily attributable to the following:reductions in gross accounts receivable principally resulting from decreases in University of Phoenix enrollment; andimproved collection rates for aged receivables at University of Phoenix. The improved collection rates are due in part to initiatives University of Phoenix implemented in fiscal year 2011 to improve its related processes.Investing ActivitiesThe following table provides a summary of our investing cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31,($ in thousands)2012 2011 2010Capital expenditures$(115,187) $(162,573) $(168,177)Acquisitions, net of cash acquired(73,736) (5,497)Proceeds from dispositions, net76,434 21,251 Proceeds from sale leaseback, net 169,018 Collateralization of letter of credit 126,615 (126,615)Maturities of marketable securities 10,000 5,000Other investing activities(1,694) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities$(114,183) $164,311 $(295,289)Fiscal year 2012 Cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $115.2 million used for capital expenditures that primarily related to investments in our information technology, and $73.7 million used to acquire Carnegie Learning. This was partially offset by $76.4 million of proceeds from dispositions, the substantial majority of which relates to our sale of MPW.Fiscal year 2011 Cash provided by investing activities consisted of $169.0 million of proceeds from the sale leaseback of office buildings in Phoenix, Arizona, $126.6 million from the return of collateral resulting from the release of a letter of credit, $21.3 million of proceeds from our sale of Insight Schools, and $10.0 million from marketable securities maturities. This was partially offset by $162.6 million used for capital expenditures that primarily related to investments in our information technology, network infrastructure, and software.82Table of ContentsFiscal year 2010 Cash used for investing activities primarily consisted of $168.2 million for capital expenditures principally related to investments in our computer equipment and software, and $126.6 million used for the collateralization of a letter of credit. The letter of credit was posted in favor of the U.S. Department of Education as required in connection with a program review of University of Phoenix by the Department, which was released in fiscal year 2011 as discussed above.Financing ActivitiesThe following table provides a summary of our financing cash flows during the respective fiscal years: Year Ended August 31,($ in thousands)2012 2011 2010Apollo Group Class A common stock purchased for treasury$(811,913) $(783,168) $(446,398)Proceeds (payments) related to borrowings, net66,876 (27,874) (2,114)Issuance of Apollo Group Class A common stock11,949 24,903 19,671Noncontrolling interest contributions 6,875 2,460Other1,150 4,014 6,648Net cash used in financing activities$(731,938) $(775,250) $(419,733)Fiscal year 2012 Cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $811.9 million used for share repurchases. This was partially offset by $66.9 million of proceeds from borrowings (net of payments on borrowings). This was partially offset by $11.9 million of cash received from the issuance of our Class A common stock.Fiscal year 2011 Cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $783.2 million used for share repurchases and $27.9 million used for payments on borrowings (net of proceeds from borrowings). This was partially offset by $24.9 million of cash received from the issuance of our Class A common stock.Fiscal year 2010 Cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $446.4 million used for share repurchases. This was partially offset by $19.7 million of cash received from the issuance of our Class A common stock.As of August 31, 2012, we have no remaining availability on our share repurchase authorization. The amount and timing of future share repurchase authorizations and repurchases, if any, will be made as market and business conditions warrant. Repurchases may be made on the open market through various methods including but not limited to accelerated share repurchase programs, or in privately negotiated transactions, pursuant to the applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules, and may include repurchases pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b5 1 nondiscretionary trading programs.Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial CommitmentsThe following table lists our contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of August 31, 2012: Payments Due by Fiscal Year($ in thousands)2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter TotalDebt(1)$621,918 $15,786 $7,366 $14,565 $659,635Operating lease obligations191,388 341,129 248,132 419,820 1,200,469Capital lease obligations22,052 39,434 14,751 1,488 77,725Stadium naming rights(2)6,917 14,463 15,344 78,738 115,462Uncertain tax positions(3)7,797 27,223 35,020Other obligations(4)19,445 22,985 5,483 6,411 54,324Total$869,517 $433,797 $291,076 $548,245 $2,142,635(1) Amounts include expected future interest payments. Refer to Note 11, Debt, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information on our outstanding debt.(2) Represents an agreement for naming rights to the Glendale, Arizona Sports Complex until 2026.(3) Represents our reserve for unrecognized tax positions, including interest and penalties, that are included in accrued and other current liabilities and other long term liabilities in our August 31, 2012 Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled.(4) Represents unconditional purchase obligations and other obligations.We have no other material commercial commitments not included in the above table.83Table of ContentsOff Balance Sheet ArrangementsAs part of our normal operations, our insurers issue surety bonds for us that are required by various states where we operate. We are obligated to reimburse our insurers for any surety bonds that are paid by the insurers. As of August 31, 2012, the total face amount of these surety bonds was approximately $49.8 million. We also had approximately $8 million outstanding letters of credit as of August 31, 2012 that are required as part of our normal operations. Certain other off balance sheet obligations, such as operating leases, are included in the Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments table above.Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market RiskImpact of InflationInflation has not had a significant impact on our historical operations.Foreign Currency Exchange RiskWe use the U.S. dollar as our reporting currency. The functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are generally the local currencies. Accordingly, our foreign currency exchange risk is related to the following exposure areas:Adjustments resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of the foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates. These translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss);Earnings volatility from the translation of income and expense items of the foreign subsidiaries using an average monthly exchange rate for the respective periods; andGains and losses resulting from foreign currency exchange rate changes related to intercompany receivables and payables that are not of a long term investment nature, as well as gains and losses from foreign currency transactions. These items are recorded in other, net on our Consolidated Statements of Income.In fiscal year 2012, we recorded $8.3 million in net foreign currency translation losses, net of tax, that are included in other comprehensive income. These losses are primarily the result of the general strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies during fiscal year 2012. The following table outlines our net asset (liability) exposure by foreign currency (defined as foreign currency assets less foreign currency liabilities and excluding intercompany balances) denominated in U.S. dollars for foreign currencies in which we have significant assets and or liabilities as of August 31:($ in thousands)2012 2011British Pound Sterling$107,610 $(37,592)Mexican Peso$22,588 $23,187Chilean Peso$6,409 $20,899Euro$883 $34,981We generally have not used derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.Interest Rate RiskInterest IncomeAs of August 31, 2012, we held $1.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities. During fiscal year 2012, our interest rate yields were less than 1%, and we earned interest income of $1.2 million. Based on the current Federal Funds Rate, we do not believe any further reduction would have a material impact on us.84Table of ContentsInterest ExpenseWe have exposure to changing interest rates primarily associated with our variable rate debt. As of August 31, 2012, we had a total outstanding debt balance of $719.9 million. The following table presents the weighted average interest rates and our scheduled maturities of principal by fiscal year for our outstanding debt at August 31, 2012:($ in thousands, except percentages)2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Thereafter TotalFixed rate debt$21,167 $20,413 $19,689 $13,183 $5,694 $13,841 $93,987Average interest rate 4.9%Variable rate debt$617,421 $ $8,503 $ $ $ $625,924Average interest rate 3.5%For sensitivity purposes, based on our outstanding variable rate debt as of August 31, 2012, an increase of 100 basis points in our weighted average interest rate would increase interest expense by approximately $6.3 million on an annual basis.The substantial majority of our debt is variable interest rate and the carrying amount approximates fair value.85Table of Contents
 
