ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains trend analyses and other forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements consist of, among other things, statements regarding net revenues, revenue mix, level of product returns, gross margins, costs and expenses and restructuring activity, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as we believe and similar expressions. These forward looking statements are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements as a result of the factors set forth elsewhere herein, including Risk Factors Which May Impact Future Operating Results. Recent Acquisitions In August 2001, we acquired the remaining outstanding stock of Buzzsaw.com, Inc. (Buzzsaw) that we did not own. Additionally, in October 2001, Autodesk acquired the software division of Media 100, Inc. (Media 100). The acquisition of Buzzsaw is part of Autodesks strategy to extend its business to complementary new markets and the acquisition of Media 100 provides Autodesk with streaming media technology for, among other things, the immediate playback of content over the Internet. Both acquisitions were accounted for as purchases. Accordingly, Autodesks fiscal 2002 consolidated results include Buzzsaws and Media 100s results of operations from the respective dates of the acquisitions. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, net revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We regularly evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. Revenue Recognition. Our accounting policies and practices are in compliance with Statement of Position 97 2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended, and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is probable. Based on whether the sale is product or service related, we recognize revenue as follows. Product sales are recognized at the time of shipment. Subscription, customer support and hosted service revenues are recognized ratably over the contract periods. Customer consulting and training revenues are recognized as the services are performed. 11 Allowance for Bad Debts. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. No single customer is significant to Autodesk, and as such, our exposure to uncollectible trade receivables is generally limited. Estimated reserves are determined based upon historical loss patterns, the number of days that billings are past due and an evaluation of the potential risk of loss associated with specific problem accounts. While we believe our existing reserve for doubtful accounts is adequate and proper, additional reserves may be required should the financial condition of our customers deteriorate or as unusual circumstances arise. Product Return Reserves. With the exception of contracts with certain distributors, our sales contracts do not contain specific product return privileges. However, we permit our distributors and resellers to return product in certain instances, generally when new product releases supercede older versions. Over the past three years, product returns as a percentage of revenues have ranged from 3 to 5 percent annually. The product return reserves are based on estimated channel inventory levels and the timing of new product introductions and other factors. While we believe our accounting practice for establishing and monitoring product returns reserves is proper, any adverse activity or unusual circumstances could result in an increase in reserve levels in the period in which such determinations are made. Realizability of Long Lived Assets. We review the realizability of our long lived assets and related intangible assets annually or sooner whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values of such assets may not be recoverable. We consider some of the following factors important in deciding when to perform an impairment review: significant under performance of a business or product line relative to budget; shifts in business strategies, which impact the continued uses of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; and the results of past impairment reviews. In assessing the recoverability of these long lived assets, we first determine their fair values, which are based on assumptions regarding the estimated future undiscounted cash flows that could reasonably be generated by these assets. Impairment charges, if any, result in situations when the fair values of these assets are less than their carrying values. During fiscal 2002, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $2.3 million. The write off of goodwill primarily related to an acquired GIS business and resulted from a strategic decision to abandon the underlying product line. We will continue to evaluate the values of our long lived assets in accordance with applicable accounting rules. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. Deferred Tax Assets. We currently have $60.9 million of deferred tax assets, mostly arising from net operating losses, reserves and timing differences for purchased technologies and capitalized software. We perform a quarterly assessment of the recoverability of these deferred tax assets, which is principally dependent upon our achievement of projected future taxable income in specific geographies. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions and other factors. These changes, if any, may require possible material adjustments to these deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net income in the period when such determinations are made. Restructuring Expenses Associated with Office Closures. During the year ended January 31, 2002, we recorded restructuring charges of $19.2 million related to the closure of several domestic and international offices. These charges were based upon the projected rental payments through the remaining terms of the underlying operating leases, offset by projected subleasing income. The projected subleasing income amounts were provided by third party real estate brokers and were based on assumptions for each of the real estate markets where the leased offices were located. Should real estate markets worsen and we are not able to sublease the properties as expected, we will record additional expenses in the quarterly period when such determinations 12 are made. This situation occurred during fiscal 2002. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we recorded additional charges as a result of the inability to sublease offices abandoned earlier in the fiscal year. If the real estate markets subsequently improve, and we are able to sublease the properties earlier or at more favorable rates than projected, we will reverse some of the underlying restructuring accruals, which will result in increased net income in the period when such determinations are made. Results of Operations Net Revenues. Our net revenues for fiscal 2002 were $947.5 million as compared to $936.3 million in fiscal 2001. Increased net revenues in Asia/Pacific and the Americas were partially offset by lower sales in Europe. Net revenues for the Discreet Segment were $156.1 million in fiscal 2002 as compared to $193.2 million in the prior fiscal year as advanced system sales were significantly affected by a slowdown in the media, advertising and entertainment sectors. Should this slowdown continue, the Discreet Segment net revenues in fiscal 2003 will be adversely affected. Net revenues for the Design Solutions Segment were $791.4 million in fiscal 2002 as compared to $743.1 million in the prior fiscal year. The Design Solutions Segment consists primarily of the Geographic Information Services (GIS), Building Industry, Manufacturing and Platform Technology divisions. These divisions have industry specific focuses. Net revenues from sales of GIS products increased to $116.4 million in fiscal 2002 from $97.5 million in fiscal 2001. Net revenues from sales of Building Industry products increased to $82.9 million in fiscal 2002 from $57.6 million in fiscal 2001. Net revenues from sales of Platform Technology products increased to $461.9 million in fiscal 2002 from $454.0 million in fiscal 2001. These increases were partially offset by lower net revenues from sales of Manufacturing products, which were $130.2 million in fiscal 2002 as compared to $134.0 million in fiscal 2001. The overall increase in segment revenues was attributable to a stronger portfolio of product offerings, such as Autodesk Inventor, Autodesk Architectural Desktop, Autodesk Map, Autodesk Land Desktop and AutoCAD 2002, and increased customer demand for greater productivity tools. Although we have been reducing our dependence on AutoCAD, sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD upgrades continue to be a significant portion of our net revenues. Such sales, which are reflected in the net revenues for the Platform Technology division, accounted for approximately 32 percent of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2002 and 33 percent of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2001. The stronger value of the U.S. dollar, relative to international currencies, had a negative impact on net revenues in fiscal 2002. Had exchange rates from the prior year been in effect in fiscal 2002, translated international revenue billed in local currencies would have been $23.2 million higher. Continued strength of the U.S. dollar would have a negative impact on net revenues in fiscal 2003. International sales accounted for approximately 65 percent of our net revenues in fiscal 2002 as compared to 64 percent in the prior fiscal year. We believe that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total revenues. Many world economies are in the midst of current economic slowdowns. Economic weakness in any of the countries which contribute a significant portion of our net revenues would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our net revenues for fiscal 2001 were $936.3 million, as compared to $848.1 million in fiscal 2000. The 10 percent growth reflected increased net revenues of 14 percent in the Americas and 22 percent in Asia/Pacific as compared to the prior fiscal year. Despite unfavorable exchange rate movements, net revenues in Europe remained flat compared to the prior fiscal year. Net revenues for the Discreet Segment increased 11 percent in fiscal 2001 as compared to the prior fiscal year. This was due to increased demand for our high end special effects, post production and broadcast products. 13 Net revenues for the Design Solutions Segment increased 10 percent in fiscal 2001 as compared to the prior fiscal year. Net revenues from sales of GIS products increased to $97.5 million in fiscal 2001 from $71.0 million in fiscal 2000. Net revenues from sales of Building Industry products increased to $57.6 million in fiscal 2001 as compared to $51.2 million in fiscal 2000. Net revenues from sales of Manufacturing products increased to $134.0 million in fiscal 2001 from $112.0 million in fiscal 2000. Net revenues from sales of Platform Technology products increased to $454.0 million in fiscal 2001 from $440.2 million in fiscal 2000. These increases resulted from greater demand for our products, especially Autodesk Inventor and primarily all GIS product offerings. Sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD upgrades, which are reflected in the net revenues for the Platform Technology division, accounted for approximately 33 percent of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2001 and 37 percent of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2000. The value of the U.S. dollar, relative to international currencies, had a negative impact on net revenues in fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000. International sales, including exports from the U.S., accounted for approximately 64 percent of our net revenues in fiscal 2001 as compared to 65 percent in fiscal 2000. Product returns, consisting principally of stock rotation, are recorded as a reduction of revenues. Over the past three years, product returns as a percentage of revenues have ranged from 3 to 5 percent annually. We anticipate that the level of product returns in future periods will continue to be impacted by channel inventory levels, the timing of new product releases, as well as the quality and market acceptance of new products. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of compact discs, cost of hardware sold (mainly workstations manufactured by Silicon Graphics), costs associated with transferring Autodesks software to electronic media, printing of user manuals and packaging materials, shipping and handling costs, royalties, amortization of purchased technology and capitalized software, and cost of service contracts. When expressed as a percentage of net revenues, cost of revenues was 16 percent in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. Lower material costs, as a result of product mix, and lower software amortization costs were offset by higher royalty expenses. Cost of revenues were 16 percent of net revenues in fiscal 2001 as compared to 17 percent of net revenues in fiscal 2000. This lower percentage in fiscal 2001 was primarily due to reduced royalty costs of $4.1 million that resulted from the expiration of some of our royalty arrangements in fiscal 2000 and reduced software amortization costs, offset in part by higher employee related expenses and professional fees. In the future, cost of revenues as a percentage of net revenues is likely to continue to be impacted by the mix of product sales, increased consulting and hosted service costs, software amortization costs, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products and the geographic distribution of sales. However, we expect future cost of revenues as a percentage of net revenues to remain within an historical range of 16 to 20 percent. Marketing and Sales. Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, dealer and sales commissions, and travel and facility costs for our marketing, sales, dealer training and support personnel. These expenses also include programs aimed at increasing revenues, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, as well as various sales and promotional programs designed for specific sales channels and end users. Marketing and sales expenses were 36 percent of net revenues in fiscal 2002 compared to 34 percent of net revenues in the prior fiscal year. This difference was primarily due to higher employee related expenses, resulting from an increasing focus on direct sales to major accounts. Marketing and sales expenses were 34 percent of net revenues in fiscal 2001 compared to 40 percent of net revenues in fiscal 2000. This lower percentage in fiscal 2001 was partially due to lower employee related expenses of approximately $2.8 million and some $16.0 million less in advertising and promotion costs. 14 We expect to continue to invest in marketing and sales of our products, to develop market opportunities and to promote our competitive position. Accordingly, we expect marketing and sales expenses to continue to be significant, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenues. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and benefits for software engineers, contract development fees and depreciation of computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses were $168.6 million in fiscal 2002 compared to $170.5 million in the prior fiscal year. General reductions in spending were partially offset by higher employee related costs, efforts associated with our location services initiatives and research and development costs incurred by RedSpark, prior to its dissolution in October 2001. Research and development costs were $170.5 million in fiscal 2001 compared to $164.0 million in fiscal 2000. The higher expenditures in fiscal 2001 were primarily due to additional spending by acquired businesses, offset in part by lower facilities costs. We expect that research and development spending will continue to be significant in fiscal 2003 as we continue to support product development efforts by our market groups. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses include our information systems, finance, human resources, legal and other administrative operations. General and administrative expenses were 14 percent of net revenues in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. Higher employee related costs were offset by lower professional fees and depreciation costs. General and administrative expenses were 14 percent in fiscal 2001 compared to 16 percent in fiscal 2000. The lower percentage in fiscal 2001 was primarily due to lower employee related spending and lower spending related to information systems. We currently expect that in the coming year general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net revenues, will remain generally consistent with the level experienced in fiscal 2002. Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles. Amortization of goodwill and purchased intangibles was $20.9 million in fiscal 2002, $26.5 million in fiscal 2001 and $30.6 million in fiscal 2000. The steady decline between years was due to some intangibles becoming fully amortized. Of the $20.9 million fiscal 2002 amortization expense, $19.9 million related to goodwill amortization. Beginning in fiscal 2003, goodwill will no longer be amortized. See Recently Issued Accounting Standards for further discussion. Restructuring and other. During fiscal 2002 Autodesk recognized $33.6 million of restructuring and other charges. These charges resulted from restructuring activities ($24.5 million), in process research and development expenses related to the acquisition of Media 100 ($3.2 million), the wind down costs associated with the dissolution of RedSpark ($3.6 million), and a goodwill write off of $2.3 million. The write off of goodwill primarily related to an acquired GIS business and resulted from a strategic decision to abandon the underlying product line. The restructuring costs, which were part of a formal exit plan approved by our Board of Directors during the second quarter of fiscal 2002, were in connection with our effort to reduce operating expense levels. During that same quarter, we reduced our revenue estimates for the remainder of fiscal 2002. As a result of the restructuring we expect to realize immediate pretax savings of $6.0 million per quarter and increased cash flows of $4.0 million per quarter. These savings are expected to last for the next several quarters and the pretax savings will be reflected in each on going cost and expense line item in the consolidated statements of income. Both the pretax and cash flow savings will be re invested in other parts of the business. 15 We plan to record restructuring costs of approximately $1.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2003 related to the consolidation of additional European offices. Also, we may need to record additional restructuring charges in fiscal 2003 associated with previously abandoned offices. The reserves established during fiscal 2002 were in part based on subleasing assumptions. Should we be unable to sublease the office spaces as expected, we will record additional expenses in the quarterly period when such determinations are made. During fiscal 2001 we reversed $1.2 million of accruals, $1.0 million of which related to a restructuring reserve established in fiscal 2000. The accruals were settled for less than originally estimated. Restructuring and other charges in fiscal 2000 of $34.7 million consisted primarily of Discreet Logic Inc. and VISION acquisition related charges and a corporate restructuring that occurred in that year. For additional information regarding the restructuring and other charges recorded over the past three fiscal years, see Note 11, Restructuring and Other in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income, which consists primarily of investment income and gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, was $19.1 million in fiscal 2002, $21.0 million in fiscal 2001 and $23.2 million in fiscal 2000. Investment income fluctuates based on average cash and marketable securities balances, average maturities and interest rates. The decrease in interest and other income between fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000 was primarily due to a trend of declining interest rates on the investment of cash and marketable securities balances. Gain on disposal of affiliate. During the third quarter of fiscal 2002, we recognized a one time non cash gain of $9.5 million related to the dissolution of RedSpark, a development stage company. Because we owned greater than 50 percent of the voting stock, we had been consolidating RedSparks operating losses since RedSpark was formed in April 2000. RedSparks expenses, which were primarily research and development related, were included within the operating expense categories of our statement of income. The gain, which resulted from the reversal of the minority interest liability balance, represents the reversal of cumulative losses recognized in excess of the $3.2 million we originally invested. Provision for income taxes. Absent the impact of the gain on disposal of affiliate, our effective income tax rate was 30 percent in fiscal 2002 and 32 percent in both fiscal 2001 and 2000. There was no tax expense from the one time gain on disposal of affiliate since we had never recognized any tax benefits from our allocable share of RedSparks accumulated losses. Consistent with previous years, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2002 is less than the federal statutory rate of 35 percent due to the benefits associated with our foreign earnings which are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, and tax exempt interest, partially offset by non deductible goodwill amortization. The fiscal 2002 tax rate was lower than the fiscal 2001 and 2000 tax rates due to a relatively higher impact of these permanent items. Our future effective tax rate may be impacted by the amount of benefits associated with our foreign earnings, which are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, research credits, and tax exempt interest. We believe that our fiscal 2003 effective tax rate will be less than 30 percent primarily due to the adoption of new accounting rules that result in the discontinuation of goodwill amortization. See Recently Issued Accounting Standards for further discussion. At January 31, 2002, we had net deferred tax assets of $60.9 million. Realization of these assets is dependent on our ability to generate approximately $150.0 million of future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions. We believe that sufficient income will be earned in the future to realize these assets. Equity in net loss of affiliate. In August 2001, we acquired the remaining 60 percent interest in Buzzsaw that we did not own. Consequently, from the date of the acquisition Buzzsaws on going revenues and costs and expenses have been included in each of the respective line items in our consolidated statements of income. 16 We recognized equity in net losses of $1.2 million in fiscal 2002 and $16.3 million in fiscal 2001, representing our proportionate share of Buzzsaws losses during those periods. In April 2000, we invested $17.5 million in Buzzsaw and maintained a 40 percent interest. Loss recognition was suspended during the first quarter of 2002, after we fully expensed all previous investments in Buzzsaw. Business Combinations Buzzsaw In August 2001, we acquired the remaining outstanding stock of Buzzsaw that we did not own for $15.0 million in cash plus the assumption of $13.3 million of liabilities. Prior to the acquisition, we held a 40 percent interest in Buzzsaw, a privately held company that provides leading online collaboration applications to improve efficiencies and reduce costs for the building industry. We accounted for this acquisition under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS 141). The purchase consideration was allocated principally to a deferred tax asset in recognition of a significant amount of Buzzsaw net operating loss and credit carryforwards that we expect to utilize to reduce our future tax obligations. Software Division of Media 100, Inc. (Media 100) In October 2001, we acquired the software division of Media 100 for $16.0 million in cash. We accounted for this acquisition under the provisions of SFAS 141. Of the total purchase price, we allocated $3.2 million to in process research and development (IPR&D); $7.4 million to developed technology; $0.6 million to brand names that have an estimated useful life of 5 years; and $4.3 million to goodwill. The IPR&D was expensed immediately since the technology had not yet reached technological feasibility and no alternative future uses could be identified. As of the acquisition date, the IPR&D substantially consisted of the Hitman product, an enterprise encoding system that automates the encoding process and allows for the encoding of multiple jobs at the same time. The Hitman product was 75 percent complete at the time, with $0.4 million of estimated remaining costs to reach technological feasibility. We recently released this product with actual costs to complete that approximated the initial $0.4 million estimate. In valuing the developed and in process technologies, we used a discounted cash flow analysis based on projected net revenues, cost of revenues, operating expenses and income taxes resulting from such technologies over a 6 year period. The projected financial results, which were discounted using a 40 percent rate for the developed technology and a 50 percent rate for the IPR&D, were based on expectations of Media 100 on a stand alone basis. The revenue projections for developed technologies, which considered the release dates of new products, assumed a gradual decline. We based the revenue projections for the IPR&D on expected trends in technology and the timing of new product introductions. VISION* Solutions (VISION) On April 22, 1999, we acquired VISION, a vendor of enterprise automated mapping/facilities management/geographic information systems (AM/FM/GIS) solutions. Of the $26.0 million purchase price, which was paid in cash, $3.3 million represented the value of IPR&D that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use, and as such, was expensed during fiscal 2000. Of the remaining purchase price, $17.6 million was allocated to goodwill and $2.1 million was allocated to other identified intangibles. As of the acquisition date, the IPR&D consisted of the development of two products, VISION 5.3, which was 60 percent complete at the time, and VISION Electric 2.3, which was 39 percent complete. Both projects, which were originally expected to be completed in late fiscal 2000, were released two years ago. The projects were completed at an amount approximately equal to the original estimate of $1.4 million. 17 In valuing the developed and in process technologies at the acquisition date, we used a discounted cash flow analysis based on projected net revenues, cost of revenues, operating expenses and income taxes resulting from such technologies over a 4 year period. The projected financial results, which were discounted using a 20 percent rate for the developed technology and a 25 percent rate for the in process technology, were based on expectations for VISION on a stand alone basis and excluded any synergistic benefits that we expected to achieve after the acquisition. The revenue projections for the developed technologies, which considered the release dates of new products, assumed a gradual decline. We based the revenue projections for the IPR&D on expected trends in technology and the timing of our new product introductions. Although actual financial results to date have been lower than originally forecasted, Autodesk has successfully integrated the VISION technology with GIS applications and products that were released in fiscal 2002. These GIS applications and products generate sufficient cash flows to realize the remaining value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Discreet Logic Inc. (Discreet) In March 1999, we acquired Discreet in a business combination accounted for as a pooling of interests. The transaction resulted in the issuance of an aggregate of approximately 20.0 million shares of Autodesk common stock in exchange for Discreets outstanding common stock. Accordingly, all prior period consolidated financial statements were restated to include the combined results of operations of Discreet as though it had always been a part of Autodesk. Prior to the acquisition, Discreets fiscal year ended on June 30. In conforming Discreets fiscal year end to ours, we recorded a $5.0 million adjustment to retained earnings during fiscal 2000. Recent Events Revit Technology Corporation (Revit) In April 2002, we acquired Revit for $133.0 million in cash. The acquisition will be accounted for as a purchase under SFAS 141. The addition of Revit complements our existing family of building industry applications with a parametric building modeler for customers to design, coordinate and integrate information about the entire building. Recently Issued Accounting Standards During July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 141. This Statement requires all business combinations to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and redefines goodwill and other intangibles that should be recognized separate from goodwill. SFAS 141 was effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. Both the acquisitions of Buzzsaw and Media 100 were accounted for under SFAS 141. During July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board also issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). This Statement requires, among other things, that goodwill not be amortized, but be tested for impairment at least annually. Application of SFAS 142 is required immediately for business combinations completed after June 30, 2001; however, for transactions completed prior to this date, we plan to adopt the provisions of SFAS 142 on February 1, 2002. We recently completed an assessment of the annual goodwill impairment test pursuant to SFAS 142 and believe that none of the goodwill balances as of January 31, 2002 are impaired. 18 During August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board also issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144). SFAS 144 is effective at the start of fiscal 2003 and supercedes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, and the accounting and reporting provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 relating to the disposal of a segment of business. We are currently assessing the impact of SFAS 144 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Liquidity and Capital Resources At January 31, 2002, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and marketable securities totaling $504.6 million, accounts receivable of $140.5 million and a $75.0 million line of credit with a financial institution. Other than operating leases, we do not engage in off balance sheet financing arrangements nor any special purpose entities. During fiscal 2002, we generated $210.2 million of cash from operating activities as compared to $196.1 million in fiscal 2001. Cash flows from operating activities, together with the proceeds from stock issuances resulting from our employee stock plans, continue to be our principal means of generating cash. During fiscal 2002 the cash generated was used to fund the repurchase of 5.3 million shares of our common stock for $97.3 million, the acquisition of businesses for $34.3 million, capital and other expenditures of $45.1 million, and dividend payments totaling $13.1 million. Between November 1999 and March 2001, the Board of Directors approved plans to repurchase up to 44.0 million shares of our common stock. Of these 44.0 million shares, 29.5 million have been repurchased as of January 31, 2002. The purpose of the stock repurchase program is, among other things, to help offset the dilution to earnings per share caused by the issuance of stock under our employee stock plans. We have a U.S. line of credit permitting short term, unsecured borrowings of up to $75.0 million, which may be used from time to time for working capital or other business needs. This credit facility contains restrictive covenants that, among other provisions, require Autodesk to maintain certain financial ratios. During fiscal 2002 and at January 31, 2002, we were in compliance with these restrictive covenants. As of January 31, 2002, there were no borrowings outstanding under this agreement, which expires in January 2003. We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments. Principal commitments at January 31, 2002, consisted of obligations under operating leases for facilities and some computer equipment. At January 31, 2002, the future minimum lease payments under these lease commitments were as follows: $35.1 million in 2003, $31.1 million in 2004, $25.0 million in 2005, $19.0 million in 2006, $8.6 million in 2007, and $14.1 million thereafter. Of these amounts, $17.5 million has been included in our restructuring accruals at January 31, 2002. In April 2002, we acquired Revit Technology Corporation for $133.0 million in cash. The addition of Revit complements our existing family of building industry applications with a parametric building modeler for customers to design, coordinate, and integrate information about an entire building. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, available line of credit and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our currently anticipated short term and long term cash requirements. Long term cash requirements, other than normal operating expenses, are anticipated for the development of new software products and incremental product offerings resulting from the enhancement of existing products; financing anticipated growth; dividend payments; the share repurchase programs; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; and capital expenditures. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2003 are currently anticipated to approximate what was incurred during fiscal 2002, but could be reduced if our growth is less than anticipated. 19 Our international operations are subject to currency fluctuations. To minimize the impact of these fluctuations, we use foreign currency option contracts and forward contracts to hedge our exposure on anticipated transactions and forward contracts to hedge our exposure on firm commitments, primarily certain payables and receivables denominated in foreign currencies. Our foreign currency instruments by policy have maturities of less than three months and settle before the end of each quarterly period. The principal currencies hedged during fiscal 2002 were the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar and Japanese yen. We monitor our foreign exchange exposures to ensure the overall effectiveness of our foreign currency hedge positions. Risk Factors Which May Impact Future Operating Results We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. General economic conditions may reduce our net revenues and harm our business. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. Because of the recent slowdown in the U.S. and other countries economies, many customers are delaying or reducing technology purchases. The impact of this slowdown on us, particularly in countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenues, is difficult to predict, but it may result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, and increased price competition. In addition, weakness in the end user market could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which would increase our credit risk exposure. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results fluctuate within each quarter and from quarter to quarter making our future revenues and operating results difficult to predict. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to change significantly or experience declines. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include, among other things the timing of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors, changes in marketing or operating expenses, changes in product pricing or product mix, platform changes, delays in product releases, distribution channel management, changes in compensation practices, the timing of large systems sales, and general economic conditions, particularly in countries where we derive a significant portion of our net revenues. We have also experienced fluctuations in operating results in interim periods in certain geographic regions due to seasonality or regional economic conditions. In particular, our operating results in Europe during the third quarter are usually impacted by a slow summer period, and the Asia Pacific operations typically experience seasonal slowing in the third and fourth quarters. Additionally, our operating expenses are based in part on our expectations for future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall below expectations could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on our profitability. Further, gross margins may be adversely affected if our sales of low end computer aided design products and AutoCAD upgrades, which historically have had lower margins, grow at a faster rate than sales of our higher margin products. Existing and increased competition in the design software market may reduce our net revenues and profits. The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of desktop computers with continually expanding capacity at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The design 20 software market in particular is fairly mature and characterized by vigorous competition in each of the vertical markets in which we compete, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies. In addition, some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources. Furthermore,the availability of third party application software is a competitive factor within the computer aided design market. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenues and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business. We believe that our future results depend largely upon our ability to offer new products, and to continue to provide existing product offerings, that compete favorably with respect to reliability, performance, ease of use, range of useful features, continuing product enhancements, reputation, price and training. Because we derive a substantial portion of our net revenues from a limited number of products, if these products are not successful, our net revenues will be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our net revenues from sales of AutoCAD software, AutoCAD upgrades, and products that are interoperable with AutoCAD. As such, any factor adversely affecting sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD upgrades, including product life cycle, market acceptance, product performance and reliability, reputation, price competition and the availability of third party applications, would likely harm our operating results. Net revenues or earnings shortfalls or the volatility of the market generally may cause the market price of our stock to decline, which could harm our business. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: net revenues or earnings shortfalls and changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; quarterly variations in our or our competitors results of operations; developments in our industry; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In addition, stock prices for many companies in the technology sector have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. After periods of volatility in the market price of a particular companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. This type of litigation is often expensive and diverts managements attention and resources, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our efforts to develop and introduce new products and service offerings expose us to risks such as costs related to product defects and large expenditures that may not result in additional net revenues. Rapid technological change as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences characterize the software industry. The software products we offer are complex, and despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or defects. These defects or errors could result in corrective releases to our software products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenues, an increase in product returns or lack of market acceptance of our products, any of which would likely harm our business. Additionally, we are devoting significant resources to the development of technologies and service offerings to address demands in the marketplace for increased connectivity and use of digital data created by computer 21 aided design software. As a result, we are transitioning to new business models, requiring a considerable investment of technical and financial resources. Such investments may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs, or competitors may introduce new products and services that will achieve acceptance among our current customers, adversely affecting our competitive position. Disruptions with third party developer and licensing relationships could adversely impact our business. Independent firms and contractors perform some of our product development activities, while other technologies are licensed from third parties. We generally either own or license the software developed by third parties. Because talented development personnel are in high demand, independent developers, including those who currently develop products for us, may not be able to provide development support to us in the future. Similarly, we may not be able to obtain and renew license agreements on favorable terms, if at all, and any failure to do so could harm our business. Our business strategy has historically depended in part on our relationships with third party developers, who provide products that expand the functionality of our design software. Some developers may elect to support other products or may experience disruption in product development and delivery cycles. In particular markets, this disruption could negatively impact these third party developers and end users, which could harm our business. Our international operations expose us to significant regulatory, intellectual property, collections, exchange fluctuations and other risks, which could adversely impact our future net revenues. We anticipate that international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. Risks inherent in our international operations include the following: unexpected changes in regulatory practices and tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer collection cycles for accounts receivable, potential changes in tax laws and laws regarding the management of data, greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property and the impact of fluctuating exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business. Our international results may also be impacted by general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets or in specific large foreign markets. These and other factors may adversely impact our future international operations and consequently our business as a whole. Our risk management strategy uses derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency option contracts and forward contracts for the purpose of hedging foreign currency market exposures, which exist as a part of our ongoing business operations. If we do not maintain our relationship with the members of our distribution channel, our ability to generate net revenues will be adversely affected. We sell our software products primarily to distributors and resellers. Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our reseller network. Computer software dealers and distributors are typically not highly capitalized and have previously experienced difficulties during times of economic contraction and may do so in the future. In addition, the changing distribution models resulting from the Internet, from increased focus on direct sales to major accounts or from two tiered distribution may impact our reseller network in the future. While no single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 or 2000, the loss of or a significant reduction in business with any one of our major international distributors or large U.S. resellers could harm our business. 22 Product returns could exceed our estimates and harm our net revenues. With the exception of contracts with some distributors, our sales contracts do not contain specific product return privileges. However, we permit our distributors and resellers to return product in certain instances, generally when new product releases supercede older versions. We anticipate that product returns in future periods will continue to be impacted by product update cycles, new product releases and software quality. We establish reserves for stock balancing and product rotation. These reserves are based on estimated channel inventory levels and the timing of new product introductions and other factors. While we maintain strict measures to monitor these reserves, actual product returns may differ from our reserve estimates, and such differences could harm our business. If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our business could be harmed. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Despite such efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties from time to time have copied aspects of our software products or have obtained and used information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our software products is time consuming and costly. While we have recovered some revenues resulting from the unauthorized use of our software products, we are unable to measure the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, and software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. Furthermore, our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. We expect that software product developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows and as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Infringement, invalidity claims, or misappropriation claims may be asserted against us, and any such assertions could harm our business. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and diversion of resources, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, such royalty or license agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which would likely harm our business. We rely on third party technologies and if we are unable to use or integrate these technologies, our product and service development may be delayed. We rely on certain software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. These third party software licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, and the software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. The loss of licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and enhance any such software could result in increased costs, or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which would likely harm our business. In addition, for certain of our on line collaboration applications and services, we rely on third party hardware and services. Financial difficulties or even failure of these third parties may impact our ability to deliver such on line collaboration applications and, as a result, may adversely impact our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel could harm our business. Our continued growth and success depends significantly on the continued service of highly skilled employees. Our ability to attract and retain employees is dependent on a number of factors, including our 23 continued ability to grant stock incentive awards. The loss of key employees or inability to recruit new employees would negatively impact our business. In addition, we may experience increased compensation costs to attract and retain skilled personnel. Our business could suffer as a result of risks associated with strategic acquisitions and investments. We periodically acquire or invest in businesses, software products and technologies that are complementary to our business through strategic alliances, debt and equity investments, and the like. For example, in April 2002 we acquired Revit. The risks associated with such acquisitions or investments include, among others, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the companies, the failure to realize anticipated synergies, and the diversion of managements time and attention. In addition, such investments and acquisitions may involve significant transaction related costs. We may not be successful in overcoming such risks and such investments and acquisitions may negatively impact our business. In addition, such investments and acquisitions may contribute to potential fluctuations in quarterly results of operations. The fluctuations could arise from merger related costs and charges associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write offs of impaired assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. These costs or charges could negatively impact results of operations for a given period or cause lack of a consistent increase quarter to quarter in our operating results. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK Foreign currency exchange risk Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy utilizes foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage our foreign currency exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. Contracts are primarily denominated in Euro, Swiss francs, Canadian dollars, British pounds and Japanese yen. We do not enter into any foreign exchange derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. A sensitivity analysis was performed on our hedging portfolio as of January 31, 2002. This analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent appreciation of the U.S. dollar from January 31, 2002 would increase the fair value of our forward exchange/option contracts by $7.7 million. Conversely, a hypothetical 10 percent depreciation of the dollar from January 31, 2002 would decrease the fair value of our forward exchange/option contracts by $6.4 million. We do not anticipate any material adverse impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a result of these foreign currency forward and option contracts. Interest rate sensitivity We had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities, including those classified as security deposits, of $367.8 million at January 31, 2002. These securities are subject to interest rate fluctuations and will decrease in market value if interest rates increase. A sensitivity analysis was performed on our investment portfolio as of January 31, 2002. This sensitivity analysis is based on a modeling technique that measures the hypothetical market value changes that would result from a parallel shift in the yield curve of plus 50, plus 100 or plus 150 basis points over 6 month and 12 month time horizons. For the 6 month time horizon the market value changes for a 50, 100, or 150 basis point increase were reductions of $1.8 million, $3.6 million and $5.3 million, respectively. For the 12 month time horizon the market value changes for a 50, 100 or 150 basis point increase were reductions of $1.5 million, $3.1 million and $4.6 million, respectively. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio to manage interest rate risk. We place our investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy guidelines, which limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. 24 Investments in privately held businesses We have an investment portfolio with a net book value of approximately $4.1 million as of January 31, 2002 that includes minority equity investments in several privately held technology companies, many of which are in the development stage. We account for these minority equity investments using the cost method of accounting because our ownership interests are less than 20 percent and we do not have the ability to exert significant influence on the investees. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never develop into commercially viable businesses. We assess the value of these investments on a regular basis and when we identify other than temporary declines in the values of these investments, we write down the carrying values to their fair values. Write downs totaled $2.9 million in fiscal 2002, $2.6 million in fiscal 2001 and $0 in fiscal 2000. Due to the inherently risky nature of these investments, we may incur additional losses in the future. 25 
