ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion in our MD&A contains trend analyses and other forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, anticipated future operating results, the impact of our restructuring activities, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, the effect of fluctuations in exchange rates on our financial results, the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the resulting effect on our financial results, and our ability to successfully expand adoption of our horizontal design products, our vertical design products and model based design products. In addition, forward looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, and short term and long term cash requirements, as well as, statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements as a result of the factors set forth above in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made. Strategy Our goal is to be the worlds leading design, engineering, and entertainment software and services company for the architecture, engineering and construction, manufacturing, and digital media and entertainment markets. Worldwide business trends such as globalization, sustainability, investment in infrastructure, and the increasing desire to keep data digital, are creating pressure on our customers to improve innovation while enhancing productivity. We enable customer innovation by delivering the broadest portfolio of products and services for the digital design, visualization, and simulation of real world project performance. Our products help our customers increase efficiency and productivity while solving business challenges. Our customers are seeking differentiation through design, and we believe our products provide them with a competitive advantage to succeed in this environment. To achieve our goal, we believe that we can capitalize on our competitive advantages, including our ability to make technology available to mainstream markets. By innovating in existing technology categories, we bring powerful design products to volume markets. Our products are designed to be easy to learn and use and to provide customers low cost of deployment, low total cost of ownership and rapid return on their investment. In addition, our software architecture allows for extensibility and integration with other products. We believe that our technological leadership, brand recognition, breadth of product line and large installed base positions us well for longer term growth. We believe that our large global network of distributors and resellers, third party developers, customers and students is also a competitive advantage. These relationships provide us with a broad reach into volume markets. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with global resources for the purchase and support of our products as well as resources for effective and cost efficient training services. We believe that our network of channel partners positions us well for longer term growth. In addition, we have a significant number of registered third party developers that create products that operate with our software products, further extending our reach into volume markets. Users trained on our products are broadly available from both educational institutions and the existing workforce providing us with a student community of next generation professional users and reducing the cost of training for our customers. To train the next generation of users, we offer education programs, including classroom support, standardized curricula, instructor development, and specially priced software purchasing options. 29 Table of Contents We believe our competitive advantages will help us manage through the current challenging economic environment, and position us well as economies begin to recover. Our strategy to grow over the long term derives from these core strengths. Our growth strategy includes continually increasing the business value of our design tools in a number of ways, and improving the performance and functionality of our existing products with each new release. Our most recent release began in March 2010. Beyond our non industry or discipline specific horizontal design products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, we develop products addressing industry or discipline specific needs through our vertical design and model based design product offerings. We continually strive to improve our product functionality and specialization by industry while increasing product interoperability and usability. We also strive to create innovative ways of delivering better user experiences to our customers. We believe this ultimately increases our customers satisfaction, the usefulness of our products to our customers and drives customer loyalty. We believe that expanding our horizontal design product customers portfolios to include our vertical design products and model based design products presents a meaningful growth opportunity and is an important part of our overall strategy. For fiscal 2010, revenue from model based design products decreased 19%, as compared to the prior fiscal year, but as a percentage of total revenue increased to 29% in fiscal 2010 compared to 27% in fiscal 2009. We believe that the adoption of vertical design products and model based design products by our customers in all industries will increase their productivity, as well as result in richer design data. This migration also poses various risks to us. In particular, if we do not successfully expand our horizontal design customer base to our vertical design products and model based design products as expected, then we would not realize the growth we expect and our business would be adversely affected. Expanding our geographic coverage is another key element of our growth strategy. We believe that emerging economies continue to present long term growth opportunities for us, although revenue from emerging economies declined 37% during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Revenue from emerging economies represented 15% of fiscal 2010 net revenue as compared to 18% of fiscal 2009 net revenue. While we believe there are long term growth opportunities in emerging economies, conducting business in these countries presents significant challenges, including economic volatility, geopolitical risk, intellectual property protection and software piracy. Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade offs in making our decisions of whether to make acquisitions. The size and frequency of transactions to acquire products, technology and businesses decreased significantly during fiscal 2010 as compared to earlier periods. We currently anticipate that we will selectively acquire products, technology and businesses as compelling opportunities that promote our strategy become available, but the pace at which we make such investments will vary depending upon our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. Global economic conditions deteriorated significantly in fiscal 2010 as compared to the conditions that existed during most of fiscal 2009. Economic contraction in most countries and markets, and global financial market instability, including tighter credit, has impacted our business. We have seen demand for our products and services decline in each of our major geographies and all the industries we serve during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. This has negatively impacted our financial results. Our operating margins are very sensitive to changes in revenue, given the relatively fixed nature of most of our expenses, which consist primarily of employee related expenditures, facilities costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. We have taken actions in response to these global economic changes that we believe will improve our financial condition in fiscal 2011 and beyond. We believe that by continuing to execute our strategy we can achieve our goal of being the worlds leading design and engineering software and services company for the architecture, engineering, and construction, manufacturing, geospatial mapping, and digital media and entertainment markets. 30 Table of Contents Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions, including that we will be able to continue making our technology available to mainstream markets; leverage our large global network of distributors and resellers, third party developers, customers, and students; improve the performance and functionality of our products; and that we can adequately protect our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that of all our significant accounting policies, the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. However, determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. For multiple element arrangements that include software products, we allocate the sales price among each of the deliverables using the residual method, under which revenue is allocated to undelivered elements based on their vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value. VSOE is the price charged when an element is sold separately or a price set by management with the relevant authority. If we do not have VSOE of an undelivered software license, we defer revenue recognition on the entire sales arrangement until all elements for which we do not have VSOE are delivered. If we do not have VSOE for undelivered maintenance or services, the revenue for the arrangement is recognized over the longest contractual period in the arrangement. We are required to exercise judgment in determining whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element based on whether our pricing for these elements is sufficiently consistent. Our assessment of likelihood of collection is also a critical factor in determining the timing of revenue recognition. If we do not believe that collection is probable, the revenue will be deferred until the earlier of when collection is deemed probable or payment is received. Our indirect channel model includes both a two tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one tiered structure where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. Our product license revenue from distributors and resellers are generally recognized at the time title to our product passes to the distributor, in a two tiered structure, or reseller, in a one tiered structure, provided all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. This policy is predicated on our ability to estimate sales returns, among other criteria. We are also required to evaluate whether our distributors and resellers have the ability to honor their commitment to make fixed or determinable payments, regardless of whether they collect payment from their customers. Our policy also presumes that we have no significant performance obligations in connection with the sale of our product licenses by our distributors and resellers to their customers. If we were to change any of these assumptions or judgments, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. 31 Table of Contents Product Returns Reserves. We permit our distributors and resellers to return products up to a percentage of prior quarter purchases. The product returns reserve is based on historical experience of actual product returns, estimated channel inventory levels, the timing of new product introductions and promotions, channel sell in for applicable markets and other factors. Our product returns reserves were $11.8 million at January 31, 2010 and $12.5 million at January 31, 2009. Product returns as a percentage of applicable revenue were 5.2% in fiscal 2010, 3.6% in fiscal 2009 and 3.5% in fiscal 2008. During fiscal year 2010 and 2009, we recorded additions to our product returns reserves of $42.9 million and $53.1 million, respectively, which reduced our revenue. Marketable Securities. At January 31, 2010 we had $287.5 million of short and long term marketable securities. We review our investments in marketable securities quarterly for indicators of other than temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this determination, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the sponsor, including industry and sector performance, operational and financing cash flow factors, and rating agency actions. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to our Consolidated Statements of Operations. This impairment results in a new cost basis in the investment recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. If market, industry, and or sponsor conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Determining the fair value of marketable securities that are not actively traded requires significant judgment. At January 31, 2010 we had an investment in The Reserve International Liquidity Fund (the International Fund), a money market fund with an estimated fair value of $10.0 million. During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the International Fund ceased redemptions after net asset values of the funds decreased below $1 per share. This occurred as a result of the International Fund revaluing its holdings of debt securities issued by Lehman Brothers, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, and the resulting unusually high redemption requests on the International Fund. A third party court appointed supervisor is overseeing, but not managing, the accounting and payment administration of the non U.S. based International Fund. Our investment in the International Fund is not currently liquid, and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so. However, based on currently available information, we expect to recover substantially all of our current holdings, net of reserves, from the International Fund within the next 12 months. Accordingly, the investment in the International Fund is classified in current Marketable Securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, at January 31, 2010, we owned two auction rate securities with an estimated fair value of $7.6 million. Our auction rate securities are variable rate debt instruments that have underlying securities with contractual maturities greater than ten years and interest rates that were structured to reset at auction every 28 days. The securities, which met our investment guidelines at the time the investments were made, have failed to settle in auctions since August 2007 and have earned a premium interest rate since that time. While we expect to recover substantially all of our current holdings, net of reserves, in the auction rate securities, we cannot predict when this will occur or the amount we will receive. Due to the lack of liquidity of these investments, they are included in non current Marketable securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or sooner should events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. When assessing goodwill for impairment, we use discounted cash flow models which include assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our conclusion as to whether goodwill is impaired, or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result from instances where the fair values of net assets associated with goodwill are less than their carrying values. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. 32 Table of Contents We recorded an impairment charge of $21.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2010 representing the entire goodwill balance of our M&E segment as of April 30, 2009. This goodwill balance related to our M&E segments fourth quarter fiscal 2009 acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Softimage. In May 2009, we concluded that an impairment of goodwill had occurred as of April 30, 2009, due to revisions to our revenue and cash flow projections in response to the significant and sustained revenue declines we were experiencing in all segments and geographies in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The revenue and cash flow projections were substantially impacted for all segments, and our M&E segment was the only segment which had a fair value of its future discounted cash flows that fell below the carrying value of its net assets. We recorded an impairment charge of $128.2 million affecting the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 representing the entire goodwill balance associated with our Media and Entertainment (M&E) segment as of October 31, 2008. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, revenue and cash flow projections for all segments were substantially impacted by the sharp downturn in the global economy and in our business. Our M&E segment was the only segment which had a current fair value of its future discounted cash flows that fell below the carrying value of its assets. Should our revenue and cash flow projections decline significantly in the future, additional impairment charges may be recorded to goodwill. As of January 31, 2010, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of our reporting units would not have an impact on the carrying value of goodwill, nor result in impairment of goodwill. See further discussion of this impairment charge in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Realizability of Long Lived Assets. We assess the realizability of our long lived assets and related intangible assets, other than goodwill, annually during the fourth fiscal quarter, or sooner should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values of such assets may not be recoverable. We consider the following factors important in determining when to perform an impairment review: significant under performance of a business or product line relative to budget; shifts in business strategies which affect the continued uses of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; and the results of past impairment reviews. In assessing the recoverability of these long lived assets, we first determine their fair values, which are based on assumptions regarding the estimated future cash flows that could reasonably be generated by these assets. If impairment indicators were present based on our undiscounted cash flow models, which include assumptions regarding projected cash flows, we would discount the cash flows to assess impairments on long lived assets. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result in situations where any fair values of these assets are less than their carrying values. In addition to our recoverability assessments, we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of our long lived assets. Any reduction in the useful life assumption will result in increased depreciation and amortization expense in the quarter when such determinations are made, as well as in subsequent quarters. We will continue to evaluate the values of our long lived assets in accordance with applicable accounting rules. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. Income Taxes. We currently have $146.1 million of net deferred tax assets, primarily a result of tax credits, net operating losses, and timing differences for reserves, accrued liabilities, stock options, purchased technologies and capitalized software, partially offset by the establishment of U.S. deferred tax liabilities on unremitted earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries and acquired intangibles and valuation allowances against California and Canadian deferred tax assets. We perform a quarterly assessment of the recoverability of these net deferred tax assets and believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax 33 Table of Contents jurisdictions to realize the net deferred tax assets. Our judgments regarding future profitability may change due to future market conditions and other factors. Any change in future profitability may require material adjustments to these net deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction in net income in the period when such determination is made. Stock Based Compensation. We measure stock based compensation cost at the grant date fair value of the award, and recognize expense on a straight line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We estimate the fair value of stock based payment awards using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. The determination of the fair value of a stock based award on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the award, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, the risk free interest rate for the expected term of the award and expected dividends. The variables used in the model are reviewed on a quarterly basis and adjusted, as needed. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Legal Contingencies. As described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Part II, Item 8, Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are periodically involved in various legal claims and proceedings. We routinely review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any matter is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the estimated loss. Because of inherent uncertainties related to these legal matters, we base our loss accruals on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess our potential liability and may revise our estimates. Such revisions could have a material impact on future quarterly or annual results of operations. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Part II, Item 8, Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporation herein by reference. Overview of Fiscal 2010 Results of Operations Fiscal YearEndedJanuary 31, 2010 As a % of NetRevenue Fiscal YearEndedJanuary 31, 2009 As a % of NetRevenue (in millions) Net Revenue $ 1,713.7 100 % $ 2,315.2 100 % Cost of revenue 191.8 11 % 219.1 9 % Gross Profit 1,521.9 89 % 2,096.1 91 % Operating expenses 1,456.3 85 % 1,851.6 80 % Income from Operations $ 65.6 4 % $ 244.5 11 % Our results for fiscal 2010 continue to reflect the recent global economic downturn, which has impacted our business on almost every front. While global macroeconomic indicators remain mixed, there were some slight signs of stabilization during the second half of fiscal 2010. Job losses and the availability of credit in the major industries we serve are important indicators for our business. There have been significant job losses around the world over the past two years, and unemployment remains high in several important geographies, including the U.S. Additionally, there are a number of mixed data points as to whether credit has become more readily available, and how this continues to impact our customers and partners. Our level of confidence in fiscal 2011 revenue forecasts is limited, and consequently we are not able to provide full year fiscal 2011 revenue guidance. 34 Table of Contents We believe that the recent economic contraction, as well as the financial pressure on our customers, have decreased demand for our products as customers have reduced their work forces; this has resulted in fewer seats of our design software sold and fewer maintenance contracts being renewed. Consequently, we experienced revenue contraction in most products, all geographies and all reportable segments during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. However, our business appears to show some signs of stabilizing as evidenced by modest increases in revenue from commercial new seat licenses, revenue from every geographic region, revenue from each of our product types and revenue from most of our operating segments in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010. In addition, we continued to make progress in reducing our operating costs, which led to an increase in operating margin in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to each of the other quarters in fiscal 2010. Despite the small growth in these areas, it is not clear to us whether these increases represent sustainable trends. During fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, net revenue decreased 26%, gross profit decreased 27%, operating expenses decreased 21% and income from operations decreased 73%. The 73% decrease in income from operations in fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, was primarily due to the reduction in our net revenue without an equivalent reduction of our costs. The majority of our costs are relatively fixed in the short term as they relate primarily to our workforce. Marketing and sales, research and development and general and administrative expenses declined in total by 18% in fiscal 2010 compared to the prior fiscal year due to our cost containment efforts. Additionally, we recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $21.0 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $128.9 million in the prior fiscal year. The unfavorable impacts of our revenue decline during fiscal 2010 were partially offset by lower operating costs resulting from our fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 restructuring plans and other cost containment efforts. Our spending decisions are based in part on our expectations for future revenue and are not directly variable with fluctuations in revenue. Accordingly, our inability to immediately adjust our operating costs for any revenue shortfall below expectations could have an immediate and significant adverse impact on our profitability. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010 we initiated the fiscal 2010 restructuring plan, which reduced headcount by approximately 430 positions globally and consolidated approximately 32 leased facilities around the world in order to reduce our operating expenses. We took these and other actions in an attempt to better align our cost structure with our recent and anticipated financial results. Other important actions include reductions in discretionary spending and contingent labor costs. We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the U.S., Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Canada, Italy, South Korea, Australia and China. The stronger value of the U.S. dollar relative to most of the other currencies, except for the Japanese yen, against which the dollar weakened, had a negative effect on operating income during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Had exchange rates from fiscal 2009 been in effect during fiscal 2010 (on a constant currency basis), net revenue would have decreased 23% compared to a 26% decrease as recorded, operating expenses would have decreased 20% compared to 21% as recorded, and income from operations would have decreased 59% compared to a 73% decrease as recorded during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, operating expenses and income from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue of certain anticipated transactions, but cannot completely mitigate the impact of fluctuation of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. Net revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 decreased 26% as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year due to a 39% decrease in license and other revenue, which was partially offset by a 3% increase in maintenance revenue. We experienced decreases in net revenue in EMEA, APAC and the Americas during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data). Tech Data accounted for 14% of our consolidated net revenue during both fiscal year 2010 and 2009. 35 Table of Contents Our total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, decreased by $422.6 million, or 20%, in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009, exceeding our reduction of total spend goals. While the magnitude of the savings is significant, we also continued to invest throughout the year in areas important to the future success of Autodesk. Our total spend of $1,648.1 million for fiscal 2010 included $93.6 million of stock based compensation expenses, $48.2 million for restructuring charges, $32.9 million attributable to amortization of developed technology for acquisitions subsequent to December 2005, $25.5 million attributable to amortization of customer relationships and trademarks for acquisitions subsequent to December 2005, and $21.0 for our goodwill impairment. Our total operating margin decreased from 11% of revenue during fiscal 2009 to 4% of revenue during fiscal 2010. The decrease during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to the decrease in our net revenue without an equivalent decrease in costs, as well as an increase in costs associated with charges for stock based compensation and restructuring charges. Our operating margin was reduced 2 percentage points for stock based compensation expenses, 1 percentage point for amortization of developed technology, and 1 percentage point for restructuring charges. Offsetting these decreases to the operating margin were a 4 percentage point increase in operating margin attributable to lower impairment of goodwill and intangibles, and a 1 percentage point increase due to lower charges from acquisition related in process research and development expenses in fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. Marketing and sales, research and development, and general and administrative expenses decreased during the fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 as a result of our cost saving initiatives. The reduction in costs did not occur as rapidly as the decline in net revenue during fiscal 2010, and our operating margins suffered as a result. We expect our operating margin percentage to increase during fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010 due to lower restructuring charges, goodwill impairment and stock based compensation expenses. Excluding these items, our operating margin percentage is expected to increase 2 to 3 percentage points in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. As compared to fiscal 2010, we expect fiscal 2011 operating expenses will decrease; however, there can be no assurance that our cost structure will not increase in the future or that we will be able to align our cost structure with our actual financial results. In addition, in taking actions to manage our cost structure, we may incur additional costs which could negatively impact our net income and cash flows from operating activities. Our primary goals for fiscal 2011 are to continue delivering our market leading products and solutions to our customers, stimulate revenue growth, manage operating margins and invest in product functionality and new product lines while minimizing the impact of these investments on gross profit, operating margins, operating cash flow and our worldwide operations. At January 31, 2010, we had $1,126.2 million in cash and marketable securities. We completed fiscal 2010 with lower deferred revenue balance and a lower accounts receivable balance as compared to fiscal 2009. Our deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2010 included $464.4 million of customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts, which is predominantly one year. We repurchased 2.7 million shares of our common stock for $63.2 million during fiscal 2010. Comparatively, we repurchased 8.0 million shares of our common stock for $256.6 million during fiscal 2009. 36 Table of Contents Results of Operations Net Revenue Fiscal YearEndedJanuary 31,2010 Increase (decrease)compared toprior fiscal year Fiscal YearEndedJanuary 31,2009 Increase (decrease)compared toprior fiscal year Fiscal YearEndedJanuary 31,2008 $ % $ % (in millions) Net Revenue: License and other $ 980.7 $ (622.7 ) 39 % $ 1,603.4 $ (15.2 ) 1 % $ 1,618.6 Maintenance 733.0 21.2 3 % 711.8 158.5 29 % 553.3 $ 1,713.7 $ (601.5 ) 26 % $ 2,315.2 $ 143.3 7 % $ 2,171.9 Net Revenue by Geographic Area: Americas $ 654.4 $ (127.9 ) 16 % $ 782.3 $ (21.2 ) 3 % $ 803.5 Europe, Middle East and Africa 671.1 (332.3 ) 33 % 1,003.4 127.9 15 % 875.5 Asia Pacific 388.2 (141.3 ) 27 % 529.5 36.6 7 % 492.9 $ 1,713.7 $ (601.5 ) 26 % $ 2,315.2 $ 143.3 7 % $ 2,171.9 Net Revenue by Operating Segment: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business $ 624.0 $ (276.8 ) 31 % $ 900.8 $ 9.8 1 % $ 891.0 Architecture, Engineering and Construction 513.3 (128.1 ) 20 % 641.4 55.3 9 % 586.1 Manufacturing 386.9 (101.5 ) 21 % 488.4 70.5 17 % 417.9 Media and Entertainment 189.1 (73.0 ) 28 % 262.1 3.4 1 % 258.7 Other 0.4 (22.1 ) 98 % 22.5 4.3 24 % 18.2 $ 1,713.7 $ (601.5 ) 26 % $ 2,315.2 $ 143.3 7 % $ 2,171.9 Fiscal 2010 Net Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2009 Net Revenue License and Other Revenue License and other revenue is comprised of two components: all forms of product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes revenue from the sale of new seat licenses, upgrades and crossgrades. Other revenue consists of revenue from Advanced Systems, consulting and training services, Autodesk Collaborative Solution hosting, and our former Location Services division. We divested the Location Services division in February 2009. Total license and other revenue decreased 39% during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. License and other revenue from horizontal design and vertical design products decreased 33% and license and other revenue from model based design products decreased 19%, each as compared to the prior fiscal year. These decreases were primarily due to the 44% decrease in commercial new seat revenue during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. During fiscal 2010, 29 percentage points of the 44% decrease was due to decreases in the number of seats sold, and 15 percentage points was due to lower average net revenue per seat. As a percentage of total net revenue, license and other revenue was 57% and 69% for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Commercial new seat revenue, as a percentage of license and other revenue, was 61% and 67% for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Also contributing to the decrease in license and other revenue during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, was the 32% decrease in upgrade revenue, which includes crossgrade revenue. The decrease in upgrade revenue was driven primarily by the recent global economic contraction. Additionally, upgrade revenue was 37 Table of Contents lower during fiscal 2010 because of the relatively smaller size of the upgradeable base of our AutoCAD based products, as compared to the upgradeable base of our AutoCAD based products during fiscal 2009, due to a higher percentage of customers on our maintenance program, which includes unspecified upgrades when and if available. Over the long term, we expect revenue from upgrades to decrease as we continue to move customers onto our maintenance program. Revenue from the sales of our services, training and support, included in License and other revenue, represented less than 4% of net revenue for all periods presented. Maintenance Revenue Our maintenance revenue relates to a program known by our user community as the Subscription Program. Our maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the maintenance contract periods. Maintenance revenue increased 3% during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to a 3% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The increase in commercial maintenance revenue is due to 8 percentage points from higher net revenue per maintenance seat, partially offset by 5 percentage points from lower program enrollment due to the economic downturn. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 98% of maintenance revenue for both fiscal 2010 and 2009. Changes in maintenance revenue lag changes in maintenance billings because we recognize the revenue ratably over the life of the maintenance contracts, which is predominantly one year. Our 3% increase in maintenance revenue in fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, reflects an 18% increase in maintenance billings in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, partially offset by a 7% decline in maintenance billings in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. As a percentage of total net revenue, maintenance revenue was 43% and 31% for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total program enrollment at January 31, 2010 consisted of about 2.2 million users. The number of users increased from 1.7 million at January 31, 2009 to 2.2 million at January 31, 2010 primarily due to a one time adjustment of 0.6 million educational seats for users who were migrated to a standard educational maintenance plan during the second fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2009. These users were not previously captured in our maintenance installed base prior to the second quarter of fiscal 2010. We do not believe these additional seats will have a material impact on our future maintenance revenue. Maintenance billings declined 7% in fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. This decrease was due to fewer new seats sold and a decrease in renewal rates as customers have reduced their work force. The year over year growth in billings for maintenance contracts began to slow in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, although maintenance billings increased slightly in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. We recognize the revenue ratably over the life of the maintenance contracts, which is predominantly one year, but may also be two or three year terms. This year over year decrease in maintenance billings will cause downward pressure on future maintenance revenue, however future maintenance revenue will also be impacted by other factors such as the amount, timing and mix of contract terms of future maintenance billings. Aggregate backlog at January 31, 2010 and January 31, 2009 was $542.5 million and $569.5 million, respectively, of which $516.5 million and $552.1 million, respectively, represented deferred revenue. Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the quarter increased by $8.6 million during fiscal 2010 from $17.4 million at January 31, 2009 to $26.0 million at January 31, 2010. Deferred revenue consists primarily of deferred maintenance revenue. To a lesser extent, deferred revenue consists of deferred license and other revenue derived from collaborative project management services, consulting services and deferred license sales. Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status and may include orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period. 38 Table of Contents Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography decreased by 16% both as reported and on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009. This decrease was primarily due to a 27% decrease in revenue from new seats, partially offset by a 5% increase in upgrade revenue in the Americas during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Maintenance revenue growth was flat in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Growth in the Americas continues to be affected by a economic volatility that impacted growth rates for all of our products during fiscal 2010. Net revenue in the EMEA geography decreased by 33%, or 26% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to a 50% decrease in new seat revenue and a 49% decrease in revenue from upgrades. These decreases were partially offset by a 2% increase in maintenance revenue in EMEA during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The EMEA geographys decline in revenue during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to economic contraction in virtually all countries in that geography. The decrease in our revenue in that geography was led by emerging economy countries followed by Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. The negative effect of the stronger value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro, the British pound and other European currencies also contributed to the decrease in net revenue in EMEA. Net revenue in the APAC geography decreased by 27%, or 28% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to a 38% decrease in new seat revenue and a 42% decrease in upgrade revenue. These decreases were partially offset by a 13% increase in maintenance revenue. Net revenue contraction in the APAC geography during fiscal 2010 occurred in virtually all countries, led by Japan and followed by China, South Korea, India and Australia. Revenue from emerging economies decreased 37% during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Revenue from emerging economies represented 15% and 18% of net revenue during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. This decrease contributed to our international sales contraction during fiscal 2010. We believe that international net revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue. The recent economic contractions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. International net revenue represented 69% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010 and 72% of our net revenue in fiscal 2009. Net Revenue by Operating Segment We have four reportable segments: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (PSEB), Architecture, Engineering and Construction (AEC), Manufacturing (MFG) and Media and Entertainment (M&E). Location Services (LBS), which we disposed of in February 2009, is not included in any of the above reportable segments and is reflected as Other. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we reorganized our business to better align with our customers and accelerate product innovation. As part of this change there has been some product movement between business segments, including the movement of Geospatial and Process and Power design market products from PSEB to AEC. Certain reclassifications to segment revenue and gross profit have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current presentation. We have no material inter segment revenue. Net revenue for PSEB decreased 31% during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to a 38% decrease in revenue from our AutoCAD LT products and a 31% decrease in revenue from our AutoCAD products, offset by a net 12% increase in revenue from all other PSEB products and services. 39 Table of Contents Net revenue for AEC decreased 20% during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to a 24% decrease in revenue from our Revit products, a 32% decrease in revenue from our AutoCAD Architecture products, a 15% decrease in revenue from our AutoCAD Civil 3D products and a net 13% decrease in revenue from all other AEC products and services. Net revenue for MFG decreased 21% during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to a 25% decrease in revenue from our Autodesk Inventor products and a 34% decrease in revenue from our Autodesk Mechanical products, offset by a net 2% increase in revenue from all other MFG products and services. Net revenue for M&E decreased 28% during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to a 42% decrease in revenue from Advanced Systems and an 18% decrease in revenue from our Animation product group. The decrease in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 33% decrease in revenue from Autodesk 3ds Max and a 17% decrease in revenue from Maya, offset by a net 32% increase in revenue from all other M&E products and services. Fiscal 2009 Net Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2008 Net Revenue During fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, net revenue increased 7%. During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 we experienced a dramatic change in the economic conditions of our markets globally. The first two quarters of fiscal 2009 were characterized by net revenue growth of 18% over the same period in the prior fiscal year. Due to the deteriorating global economic conditions during our third and fourth fiscal quarters of fiscal 2009, our results for the second half of fiscal 2009 were a stark contrast to the first half of the fiscal year. Revenue for the second half of fiscal 2009 declined by 4% compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year; revenue decreased sequentially 2% and 19% during our third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, respectively. License and Other Revenue Total license and other revenue decreased 1% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008. Commercial new seat revenue from our model based, horizontal and vertical design products for fiscal 2009 was flat compared to fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2009, we experienced a decrease of approximately 13 percentage points due to lower number of seat licenses sold, offset by an increase of approximately 13 percentage points due to higher average net revenue per seat. During fiscal 2009, there was less correlation between revenue growth and seat license growth due to changes in our mix of geographies and products, proportion of maintenance in the user base, currency exchange rates, and average selling prices, and we expect this trend to continue. As a percentage of total net revenue, license and other revenue was 69% for fiscal 2009 and 75% for fiscal 2008. Upgrade revenue, which includes crossgrade revenue, decreased by 8% during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, as expected. The decrease in upgrade revenue was driven primarily by the relatively smaller size of the upgradeable base of our AutoCAD based products in fiscal 2009 as compared to the upgradeable base of our AutoCAD based products in fiscal 2008, due to more customers on our maintenance program. Maintenance Revenue Maintenance revenue increased 29% for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Approximately 20 percentage points of the 29% increase was due to increases in program enrollment and approximately 9 percentage points of the increase was due to higher net revenue per maintenance seat for fiscal 2009 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of total net revenue, maintenance revenue was 31% for fiscal 2009 and 25% for fiscal 2008. At January 31, 2009 our maintenance program enrollment consisted of about 1.7 million users. 40 Table of Contents Net Revenue by Geographic Area Net revenue in the Americas geography decreased by 3% both as reported and on a constant currency basis during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, as a result of a 15% decrease in revenue from new seats in the Americas geography and a 19% decrease in revenue from upgrades, offset in part by a 16% increase in maintenance revenue. Growth in the Americas geography was affected by a slowing economy that impacted growth rates for all of our products in fiscal 2009. Net revenue in EMEA geography increased by 15%, or 9% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a 39% increase in maintenance revenue and a 6% increase in new seat revenue, slightly offset by a 1% decrease in revenue from upgrades. The EMEA geographys growth during fiscal 2009 was primarily due to growth in the EMEA emerging economies, as well as in Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Belgium and Sweden. The positive effect of the weaker value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro, the British pound and other European currencies also contributed to the increase in net revenue in the EMEA geography. Net revenue in the APAC geography increased by 7%, or 2% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a 36% increase in maintenance revenue and a 3% increase in new seat revenue, partially offset by a 4% decrease in revenue from upgrades. Net revenue growth in the APAC geography during fiscal 2009 occurred primarily due to growth in Japan and Australia; net revenue from the APAC geography emerging economies in fiscal 2009 was flat compared to the prior fiscal year. International net revenue represented 72% of our net revenue in fiscal 2009 and 69% of our net revenue in fiscal 2008. We started to experience some economic difficulty in international sales in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. Global conditions worsened, and the economic downturn significantly impacted our international sales during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, particularly the robust business we had been seeing in emerging economies. Net revenue in emerging economies grew by 14% from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009, primarily due to revenue from the Russian Federation, other EMEA emerging economies and India. This growth was a significant factor in our international sales growth during fiscal 2009. In contrast, fourth quarter fiscal 2009 net revenue in the EMEA and APAC geographies decreased 16% and 25%, respectively, compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and net revenue from emerging economies declined 31% for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 as compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Net Revenue by Operating Segment Net revenue for PSEB increased 1% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a 3% increase in revenue from AutoCAD LT, partially offset by a 1% decrease in revenue from AutoCAD. Net revenue for AEC increased 9% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a 22% increase in revenue from Autodesk Revit. This increase was partially offset by a 13% decrease in revenue from AutoCAD Architecture. Also contributing to the increase in AECs net revenue during fiscal 2009 was an increase in revenue from the Autodesk Robot Structural Analysis (Robobat) and Autodesk Navisworks products. Net revenue for MFG increased 17% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to an 8% increase in revenue from Autodesk Inventor products and a 12% increase in revenue from AutoCAD Mechanical. Contributing 7 percentage points of the 17% increase in MFGs net revenue for fiscal 2009 was revenue from the Autodesk Moldflow products of $30.8 million. Net revenue for M&E increased 1% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a 9% increase in net revenue from our Animation product group. The increase in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 25% increase in revenue from Autodesk 3ds Max. Net revenue from Advanced Systems decreased 8% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008. 41 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Fiscal YearEndedJanuary 31,2010 Increase (decrease)compared to priorfiscal year Fiscal YearEndedJanuary 31,2009 Increase (decrease)compared toprior fiscal year Fiscal YearEndedJanuary 31,2008 $ % $ % (in millions) Cost of revenue: License and other $ 179.9 $ (30.3 ) 14 % $ 210.2 $ 11.1 6 % $ 199.1 Maintenance 11.9 3.0 34 % 8.9 0.3 3 % 8.6 $ 191.8 $ (27.3 ) 12 % $ 219.1 $ 11.4 5 % $ 207.7 As a percentage of net revenue 11 % 9 % 10 % Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs of fulfilling service contracts and order fulfillment, including stock based compensation expense for those employees, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of purchased technology, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly PC based workstations for Advanced Systems in our M&E segment), costs associated with transferring our software to electronic media, printing of user manuals and packaging materials and shipping and handling costs. Cost of license and other revenue decreased 14% during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to the 39% decrease in license and other revenue. Cost of license and other revenue did not decline as rapidly as the associated net revenue in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 because of increased amortization of purchased technology related to fiscal years 2010 and 2009 acquisitions, costs associated with redundant services as we migrated a portion of our IT systems onto a new platform, and higher costs associated with the implementation of our electronic fulfillment system. Cost of license and other revenue increased 6% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008 even though license and other revenue decreased by 1%. Cost of license and other revenue increased in fiscal 2009 due to an increase in amortization of purchased technology due to the number of acquisitions completed during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, slightly offset by decreases in employee related expenses. Since many of these costs are headcount related expenses, they do not vary proportionally with changes in revenue. Cost of maintenance revenue includes labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance customers, including stock based compensation expense for these employees, rent and occupancy, and professional services fees. Cost of maintenance revenue increased 34% during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 due to an increase in product support headcount due to the acquisition of Moldflow Corporation in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Costs of maintenance revenue remained relatively consistent in both relative dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of purchased technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products, and employee stock based compensation expense. Marketing and Sales Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2010 Decreasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2009 Increasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2008 $ % $ % (in millions) Marketing and sales $ 731.9 $ (168.8 ) 19 % $ 900.7 $ 53.0 6 % $ 847.7 As a percentage of net revenue 43 % 39 % 39 % 42 Table of Contents Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs of sales and order processing, rent and occupancy, sales and dealer commissions, and the cost of supplies and equipment. Marketing and sales expenses decreased 19% during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to lower employee related costs, driven by decreased marketing and sales headcount and decreased travel expenditures and reduced advertising and promotional expenses. Marketing and sales expense increased 6% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher employee related costs driven by increased marketing and sales headcount in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. We expect to balance our need to invest in the marketing and sales of our products with our need to reduce our operating expenses to align with our financial condition. Research and Development Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2010 Decreasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2009 Increasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2008 $ % $ % (in millions) Research and development $ 457.5 $ (118.6 ) 21 % $ 576.1 $ 85.6 17 % $ 490.5 As a percentage of net revenue 27 % 25 % 23 % Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock based compensation expense for research and development employees, rent and occupancy, professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel. Research and development expenses decreased 21% during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to decreases in employee related costs driven by decreased research and development headcount. Also contributing to the decline was a decrease in acquisition related in process research and development charges from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010. Research and development expenses increased 17% during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to an increase in employee related costs driven by increased research and development headcount. Also contributing to the increase in research and development expenses was in process research and development from acquisitions during fiscal 2009. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in stock based compensation expense for our research and development employees. General and Administrative Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2010 Decreasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2009 Increasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2008 $ % $ % (in millions) General and administrative $ 197.7 $ (8.0 ) 4 % $ 205.7 $ 25.3 14 % $ 180.4 As a percentage of net revenue 12 % 9 % 8 % General and administrative expenses include salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal personnel, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, cost of supplies and equipment, amortization of acquisition related customer relationships and trade names, and expense of communication. General and administrative expenses decreased 4% from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 primarily due to decreases in employee related costs driven by decreased general and administrative headcount and reduced rent and occupancy costs due to the consolidation of facilities. This decrease was partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization related to capital expenditures from fiscal 2009 and 2010. General and administrative expenses increased 14% from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009 primarily due to increases in employee related costs, due to an increase in general and administrative headcount, and an increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets during fiscal 2009. 43 Table of Contents Restructuring Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2010 Increasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2009 Increasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2008 $ % $ % (in millions) Restructuring $ 48.2 $ 8.0 20 % $ 40.2 $ 40.2 * $ As a percentage of net revenue 3 % 2 % 0 % * Percentage is not meaningful In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we initiated a restructuring program in order to reduce our operating costs. This program reduced the number of employees by a total of approximately 700 positions globally and resulted in the consolidation of approximately 27 leased facilities. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we initiated an additional restructuring program, which resulted in headcount reduction of approximately 430 positions globally and resulted in the consolidation of approximately 32 leased facilities around the world in order to further reduce our operating expenses. In connection with these restructuring programs, we recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $48.2 million and $40.2 million during fiscal 2010 and 2009. Of these amounts, $24.3 million and $36.7 million were recorded for one time termination benefits and other costs during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $23.9 million and $3.5 million were recorded for facilities related costs during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The one time termination benefits for these two restructuring programs have been substantially paid as of January 31, 2010. We expect to pay the facility related liabilities through fiscal 2018. See Note 16, Restructuring Reserve, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangibles Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2010 Decreasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2009 Increasecompared toprior fiscal year Fiscal yearEndedJanuary 31,2008 $ % $ % (in millions) Impairment of goodwill and intangibles $ 21.0 $ (107.9 ) 84 % $ 128.9 $ 128.9 * $ As a percentage of net revenue 1 % 6 % 0 % * Percentage is not meaningful We recorded an impairment charge of $21.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2010 representing the entire goodwill balance of our M&E segment as of April 30, 2009. This goodwill balance related to our M&E segments fourth quarter fiscal 2009 acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Softimage. In May 2009, we concluded that an impairment of goodwill had occurred as of April 30, 2009 due to revisions to our revenue and cash flow projections in response to the significant and sustained revenue declines we were experiencing in all segments and geographies in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The revenue and cash flow projections were substantially impacted for all segments, and our M&E segment was the only segment which had a fair value of its future discounted cash flows that fell below the carrying value of its net assets. During fiscal 2009 we recorded a $128.9 million impairment charge affecting the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, primarily related to impairment of goodwill associated with our M&E segment. During the three months ended January 31, 2009, revenue and cash flow projections for all segments decreased substantially as the economy worsened. Our M&E segment was the only segment which had a fair value that fell below the carrying value of its net assets. 44 Table of Contents Should our revenue and cash flow projections decline significantly in the future, additional impairment charges may be recorded to goodwill. As of January 31, 2010, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of our reporting units would not have an impact on the carrying value of goodwill, nor result in impairment of goodwill. See Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Interest and Other Income, Net The following table sets forth the components of interest and other income, net: Fiscal Year EndedJanuary 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Interest and investment income, net $ 10.0 $ 13.6 $ 33.4 Investment impairment (5.9 ) (4.0 ) Gain (loss) foreign currency 5.0 (1.0 ) 0.2 Gain (loss) on cost method investment (5.0 ) Loss from unconsolidated subsidiary (3.4 ) Other income (expense) 4.1 1.3 3.2 $ 19.1 $ 8.0 $ 24.4 Interest and investment income, net fluctuates based on average cash and marketable securities balances, average maturities and interest rates. The increase in interest and other income, net during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, is primarily due to gains on marketable securities, gains on foreign currency transactions, a gain on the sale of an investment, and the impairment of an investment during fiscal 2009. These increases were partially offset by lower interest rate yields on investments during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest and investment income, net, during fiscal 2009, as compared to fiscal 2008, is primarily due to lower interest rate yields. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. Our effective tax rate was 32% and 27% during fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our effective tax rate increased 5% from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 primarily due to a change in expected future tax rates and the establishment of the California valuation allowance in fiscal 2010 offset by non deductible goodwill impairment and in process research and development expenses in fiscal 2009. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the State of California enacted legislation significantly altering California tax law. As a result of the newly enacted legislation, we expect that in fiscal years 2012 and beyond, income subject to tax in California will be less than under prior tax law and accordingly, deferred tax assets are less likely to be realized. Our effective tax rate was 27% and 24% during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our effective tax rate increased 3% from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009 primarily due to non deductible goodwill impairment and in process research and development expenses. Our future effective tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the Federal statutory rate, research credits, state income taxes, the tax impact of stock based compensation, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, U.S. Manufacturers deduction, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, changes in valuation allowances and changes in tax law. 45 Table of Contents At January 31, 2010, we had net deferred tax assets of $146.1 million. We believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize these assets. For additional information regarding our income tax provision, see Note 5, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of cash is from the sale of licenses to our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs which consist primarily of employee related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology and businesses and to fund our stock repurchase program. See further discussion of these items below. At January 31, 2010, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $1,126.2 million and net accounts receivable of $277.4. In addition, we have a U.S. line of credit facility that permits unsecured short term borrowings of up to $250.0 million and a China line of credit that permits unsecured short term borrowings of up to $5.0 million. These line of credit agreements contain customary covenants that could restrict the imposition of liens on our assets, and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or make dispositions of assets if we fail to maintain their financial covenants. These credit facilities are available for working capital and other business needs. At January 31, 2010, we had no borrowings outstanding on the U.S. or China line of credit. The U.S. facility expires in August 2012 and the China facility has no contractual expiration. As of March 19, 2010, no amounts were outstanding on the U.S. and China line of credit facilities. Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citibank and its global affiliates (Citibank). In addition, Citicorp USA, Inc., an affiliate of Citibank, is the lead lender and agent in the syndicate of our $250.0 million U.S. line of credit. The increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities from $988.7 million at January 31, 2009 to $1,126.2 million at January 31, 2010 is principally the result of cash generated from operations and the proceeds from the issuance of common stock. These increases to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were partially offset by cash used for repurchases of our common stock, repayment of our lines of credit, capital expenditures, the acquisition of PlanPlatform and equity investments. Cash generated from operations was negatively impacted by lower net revenue and the payment of restructuring charges. At January 31, 2010, our short term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $161.9 million and a cost basis of $169.1 million. The portfolio fair value consisted of $89.0 million invested in commercial paper and corporate securities, $26.3 million invested in mutual funds, $24.6 million invested in certificates of deposit and time deposits with remaining maturities at the date of purchase greater than 90 days and less than one year, $10.0 million invested in money market funds, $8.8 million invested in U.S. government agency securities and $3.2 million invested in municipal securities and other securities. At January 31, 2010, we had an investment in The Reserve International Liquidity Fund (the International Fund), a market fund with an estimated fair value of $10.0 million. During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the International Fund ceased redemptions after net asset values of the funds decreased below $1 per share. This occurred as a result of the International Fund revaluing its holdings of debt securities issued by Lehman Brothers, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, and the resulting unusually high redemption requests on the International Fund. Our investment in the International Fund is unrelated to the assets of our Deferred Compensation Plan. 46 Table of Contents A third party court appointed supervisor is overseeing, but not managing, the accounting and payment administration of the non U.S. based International Fund. Our investment in the International Fund is not currently liquid, and in the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so. However, based on currently available information, we expect to recover substantially all of our current holdings, net of reserves, from the International Fund within the next 12 months. Accordingly, the investment in the International Fund is classified in current Marketable Securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, At January 31, 2010, we owned two auction rate securities with an estimated fair value of $7.6 million. Our auction rate securities are variable rate debt instruments that have underlying securities with contractual maturities greater than ten years and interest rates that were structured to reset at auction every 28 days. The securities, which met our investment guidelines at the time the investments were made, have failed to settle in auctions since August 2007 and have earned a premium interest rate since that time. While we expect to recover substantially all of our current holdings, net of reserves, in the auction rate securities, we cannot predict when this will occur or the amount we will receive. Due to the lack of liquidity of these investments, they are included in non current Marketable securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 2, Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our financial instruments. At January 31, 2010, $26.3 million of trading securities were invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note 6, Deferred Compensation, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). The primary source for net cash provided by operating activities of $246.8 million for fiscal 2010 was net income increased by the effect of non cash expenses associated with depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation, and impairment of goodwill. The primary working capital source of cash was a decrease in accounts receivable. The decrease in accounts receivable relates primarily to the increase in collections during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables was 55 days at January 31, 2010. The primary working capital uses of cash were for payment of restructuring related costs, the reduction of deferred revenue due to lower maintenance billings for fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 and reductions of accrued expenses primarily related to our fiscal 2010 employee bonus accrual and fourth quarter fiscal 2010 commissions. We expect net cash flows provided by operating activities to be higher in fiscal 2011 than in fiscal 2010 due to improved operating margins. Long term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal use software applications; and funding restructuring costs. Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may decline in fiscal 2011 in the event of a further weakening of the economy or changes in our planned cash outlay. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled Risk Factors. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next 12 months. Our existing U.S. credit facility is currently $250.0 million of which we have no amounts outstanding. This credit facility is available for working capital and other business needs. Our revenue, earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy utilizes derivative instruments to hedge a majority of our foreign currency transaction exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. As of January 31, 2010, we have open contracts to hedge expected cash flows for one to twelve months in the future. Contracts are primarily denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds and Canadian dollars. We do not enter into any 47 Table of Contents derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The notional amount of our option and forward contracts was $239.1 million and $276.7 million at January 31, 2010 and January 31, 2009, respectively. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant financial contractual obligations at January 31, 2010 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Total Fiscal Year2011 Fiscal Years2012 2013 Fiscal Years2014 2015 Thereafter (in millions) Operating lease obligations $ 218.7 $ 58.7 $ 73.4 $ 35.5 $ 51.1 Purchase obligations 58.3 57.9 0.3 0.1 Deferred compensation obligations 26.3 1.1 5.6 6.2 13.4 Pension obligations 21.3 2.0 4.4 4.5 10.4 Restructuring obligations 19.4 11.4 5.5 2.1 0.4 Other obligations(1) 28.0 7.6 12.5 5.9 2.0 Total(2) $ 372.0 $ 138.7 $ 101.7 $ 54.3 $ 77.3 (1) Other obligations include future sabbatical obligations and asset retirement obligations. (2) This table generally excludes amounts already recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, certain purchase obligations as discussed below, long term deferred revenue and amounts related to income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, since we cannot predict with reasonable reliability the timing of cash settlements to the respective taxing authorities (see Note 5 Income Taxes to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating lease obligations consist primarily of obligations for facilities, net of sublease income, computer equipment and other equipment leases. Purchase obligations are contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on Autodesk and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations relate primarily to hosting services agreements, IT infrastructure costs, marketing costs and contractual software development services. Deferred compensation obligations relate to amounts held in a rabbi trust under our non qualified deferred compensation plan. See Note 6 Deferred Compensation, in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this plan. Pension obligations relate to our obligations for pension plans outside of the U.S. See Note 15, Retirement Benefit Plans, in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these obligations. Restructuring obligations relate to our fiscal 2010, 2009 and other restructuring plans. See Note 16, Restructuring Reserves, in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our restructuring plans. Purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of supplies and other goods and services are not included in the table above. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current procurement or development needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of supplies or 48 Table of Contents other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for three months. In addition, we have certain software royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on the number of units shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, included in cost of license and other revenue, was $16.5 million in fiscal 2010, $17.1 million in fiscal 2009 and $14.9 million in fiscal 2008. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed upon amounts for some obligations. We provide indemnifications of varying scopes and certain guarantees, including limited product warranties. Historically, costs related to these warranties and indemnifications have not been significant, but because potential future costs are highly variable, we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these guarantees on our future results of operations. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the cumulative repurchase of up to 164.0 million shares. The purpose of the stock repurchase program is to help offset the dilution to net income per share caused by the issuance of stock under our employee stock plans and has the effect of returning excess cash generated from our business to stockholders. The number of shares acquired and the timing of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market conditions, the volume of employee stock option exercises, the trading price of our common stock, cash on hand and available in the U.S., and company defined trading windows. There were 1.0 million repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended January 31, 2010; during the year ended January 31, 2010 we repurchased 2.7 million shares of our common stock. At January 31, 2010, 13.5 million shares remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization. This program does not have a fixed expiration date. See Note 9, Stockholder Equity, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than operating leases, we do not engage in off balance sheet financing arrangements or have any variable interest entities. As of January 31, 2010 we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Foreign currency exchange risk Our revenue, earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy utilizes foreign currency contracts to manage our foreign currency exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. As of January 31, 2010 and 2009, we had open contracts to hedge expected cash flows for one to 12 months in the future in order to reduce our exposure to foreign currency volatility. Contracts were primarily denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds and Canadian dollars. We do not enter into any foreign exchange derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The notional amount of our option and forward contracts was $239.1 million and $276.7 million at January 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We utilize foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate impact on the net revenue and operating expenses of certain anticipated transactions. A sensitivity analysis performed on our hedging portfolio as of January 31, 2010 indicated that a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar from its value at January 31, 2010 would increase the fair value of our contracts by $24.2 million. A hypothetical 10% depreciation of the 49 Table of Contents dollar from its value at January 31, 2010 would decrease the fair value of our contracts by $13.1 million. We do not anticipate any material adverse impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a result of these foreign currency contracts. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate movements affect both the interest income we earn on our short term investments and, to a lesser extent, the market value of certain longer term securities. At January 31, 2010, we had $910.0 million of cash equivalents and marketable securities. With an average investment balance for the quarter of approximately $742.8 million, if interest rates were to increase (decrease) by 10%, this would result in a $0.1 million increase (decrease) in annual interest income. Further, at January 31, 2010, we had approximately $125.6 million invested in a longer term portfolio which, with 50 and 100 basis point moves, would result in market value changes (gains or losses) of $0.2 million over both six and 12 month periods. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio to manage interest rate risk. 50 Table of Contents 

