FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20070409164641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 9, 2007, Time Warner Cable Inc. (the "Company") completed its offering of $5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and debentures consisting of $1.5 billion principal amount of 5.40% notes due 2012 (the "2012 Notes"), $2 billion principal amount of 5.85% notes due 2017 (the "2017 Notes") and $1.5 billion principal amount of 6.55% debentures due 2037 (the "2037 Debentures" and, together with the 2012 Notes and the 2017 Notes, the "Debt Securities") pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Debt Securities are guaranteed by Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. and TW NY Cable Holding Inc., each a subsidiary of the Company (collectively, the "Guarantors"). In connection with the pricing of the offering, on April 4, 2007, the Company and the Guarantors entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with ABN AMRO Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC as representatives of the purchasers listed in Schedule I thereto (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"). The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, covenants and indemnification provisions. A copy of the Purchase Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Debt Securities were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), by and among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007 (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), by and among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York, as trustee. Copies of the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture (including the form of Debt Securities included therein) are attached as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
The 2012 Notes will mature on July 2, 2012, the 2017 Notes will mature on May 1, 2017 and the 2037 Debentures will mature on May 1, 2037. Interest on the 2012 Notes will be payable semi-annually in arrears on January 2 and July 2 of each year, beginning on July 2, 2007. Interest on the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Debentures will be payable semi-annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on November 1, 2007. The Debt Securities are unsecured senior obligations of the Company and rank equally with its other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The guarantees of the Debt Securities are unsecured senior obligations of the Guarantors and rank equally in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Guarantors.
The Debt Securities may be redeemed in whole or in part at any time at the Company's option at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Debt Securities being redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on the Debt Securities discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at a government treasury rate plus 20 basis points for the 2012 Notes, 30 basis points for the 2017 Notes and 35 basis points for the 2037 Debentures as further described in the Indenture, plus, in each case, accrued but unpaid interest to the redemption date.
 
The Indenture contains customary covenants relating to restrictions on the ability of the Company or any material subsidiary to create liens and on the ability of the Company and the Guarantors to consolidate, merge or convey or transfer substantially all of their assets. The Indenture also contains customary events of default.
In connection with the issuance of the Debt Securities, on April 9, 2007, the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") pursuant to which the Company agreed, among other things, to use its commercially reasonable efforts to consummate a registered exchange offer for the Debt Securities within 270 days after the issuance date of the Debt Securities or cause a shelf registration statement covering the resale of the Debt Securities to be declared effective within specified periods. The Company will be required to pay additional interest of 0.25% per annum on the Debt Securities if it fails to timely comply with its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement until such time as it complies. A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is attached as Exhibit 4.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Certain of the Initial Purchasers or their affiliates have performed commercial and investment banking and advisory services for the Company from time to time for which they have received customary fees and expenses. The Initial Purchasers may, from time to time, engage in transactions with and perform services for the Company in the ordinary course of their business. Certain affiliates of the Initial Purchasers are lenders under the Company's $4.0 billion three-year term loan facility, its $4.0 billion five-year term loan facility and its $6.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the issuance of the Debt Securities to repay a portion of the outstanding indebtedness under its $4.0 billion three-year term loan facility and its $4.0 billion five-year term loan facility and for general corporate purposes.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Reference is made to Item 1.01 and the description of the Debt Securities and the Indenture contained therein, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 5, 2007, the Company announced the pricing of the offering of the Debt Securities. The press release announcing the pricing is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. On April 9, 2007, the Company announced the closing of the offering of the Debt Securities. The press release announcing the closing of the offering is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 9, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 4.1
Execution Copy
     
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               THIS INDENTURE between TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the "") having its principal office at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, Connecticut 06902, TW NY CABLE HOLDING INC., a Delaware corporation (""), TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("," and together with TW NY, the ""), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (hereinafter called the ""), is made and entered into as of April 9, 2007.
Company
TW NY
TWE
Guarantors
Trustee
          The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of its debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness, to be issued in one or more fully registered series.
          All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms have been done.
          To set forth or to provide for the establishment of the terms and conditions upon which the Securities are and are to be authenticated, issued and delivered, and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of a series thereof, as the case may be:
     SECTION 1.01 For all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
Definitions.
     (1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;
     (2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act or by Commission rule under the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them herein;
     (3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles and any accounting rules or interpretations promulgated by the Commission as are generally accepted in the United States of America at the date of this Indenture; and
     (4) all references in this instrument to designated "Articles", "Sections" and other subdivisions are to the designated Articles, Sections and other subdivisions of this
 
instrument as originally executed. The words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
     Certain terms, used principally in Article VI, are defined in that Article.
          "", when used with respect to any Securityholder, has the meaning specified in Section 1.04.
Act
          "" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
          "" means any Person authorized by the Company to authenticate Securities under Section 6.14.
Authenticating Agent
          "" means (i) the board of directors of the Company, (ii) any duly authorized committee of such board, (iii) any committee of officers of the Company or (iv) any officer of the Company acting, in the case of clauses (iii) or (iv), pursuant to authority granted by the board of directors of the Company or any committee of such board.
Board of Directors
          "" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
          "" means, with respect to any series of Securities, unless otherwise specified in a Board Resolution, in an indenture supplemental hereto or an Officer's Certificate with respect to a particular series of Securities, each day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in the pertinent Place or Places of Payment or the city in which the Corporate Trust Office is located are authorized or required by law or executive order to be closed.
Business Day
          "" of the Common Stock or other Marketable Security, as the case may be, shall mean the last reported sale price of such stock or other Marketable Security (regular way) as shown on the Composite Tape of the NYSE (or, if such stock or other Marketable Security is not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, on the principal national securities exchange on which such stock or other Marketable Security is listed or admitted to trading, including the NASDAQ), or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on the NYSE (or, if such stock or other Marketable Security is not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, on the principal national securities exchange on which such stock or other Marketable Security is listed or admitted to trading, including the NASDAQ), or if such stock or other Marketable Security is not so reported, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by any member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., selected from time to time by the Company for that purpose.
Closing Price
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or, if at any time after the
Commission
 
execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
          "" shall mean the Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share and/or the Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company, as applicable, authorized at the date of this Indenture as originally signed, or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of such Common Stock, and in any such case including any shares thereof authorized after the date of this Indenture.
Common Stock
          "" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor.
Company
          "", "" and "" mean a written request, order or consent, respectively, signed in the name of the Company by its Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer or any Senior Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, Controller, an Assistant Controller, Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
Company Consent
          "" means, with respect to any Person, at the date of any determination, the consolidated stockholders' or owners' equity of the holders of capital stock or partnership interests of such Person and its subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied.
Consolidated Net Worth
          "" means any Person authorized by the Company to receive Securities to be converted into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities on behalf of the Company. The Company initially authorizes the Trustee to act as Conversion Agent for the Securities on its behalf. The Company may at any time and from time to time authorize one or more Persons to act as Conversion Agent in addition to or in place of the Trustee with respect to any series of Securities issued under this Indenture.
Conversion Agent
          "" means, with respect to any series of Securities which are convertible into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities, the price per share of Common Stock or the price per designated unit of other Marketable Security at which the Securities of such series are so convertible as set forth in the Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto with respect to such series (or in any indenture supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to Section 9.01(9) with respect to such series), as the same may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 12.03 (or such indenture supplemental hereto).
Conversion Price
          "" shall have the meaning specified in Section 12.02(c) of this Indenture.
Converting Holder
          "" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 101 Barclay Street, 8W, New York, NY 10286, Attn: Corporate Trust Administration.
Corporate Trust Office
          "" on any date shall mean the average of the daily Closing Prices per share of Common Stock or of such other Marketable Securities for any thirty (30) consecutive Trading Days selected by the Company prior to the day in question, which thirty (30) consecutive Trading Day period shall not commence more than forty-five (45) Trading Days
Current Market Price
 
prior to the day in question; provided that with respect to Section 12.03(3), the "Current Market Price" of the Common Stock or of such other Marketable Securities shall mean the average of the daily Closing Prices per share of Common Stock or of such other Marketable Securities for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days ending on the date of the distribution referred to in Section 12.03(3) (or if such date shall not be a Trading Day, on the Trading Day immediately preceding such date).
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.07.
Defaulted Interest
          "" means, unless otherwise specified by the Company pursuant to either Section 2.04 or 3.01, with respect to Securities of any series issuable or issued as a Global Security, The Depository Trust Company, New York, New York, or any successor thereto registered as a clearing agency under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation.
Depository
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.03.
Discharged
          "" has the meaning specified in Article V.
Event of Default
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(5).
Federal Bankruptcy Act
          "" means generally accepted accounting principles as such principles are in effect in the United States as of the date of this Indenture.
GAAP
          "", when used with respect to any series of Securities issued hereunder, means a Security which is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depository or pursuant to the Depository's instruction, all in accordance with this Indenture and an indenture supplemental hereto, if any, or Board Resolution and pursuant to a Company Request, which shall be registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all of the Outstanding Securities of such series or any portion thereof, in either case having the same terms, including, without limitation, the same original issue date, date or dates on which principal is due, and interest rate or method of determining interest.
Global Security
          "" means the guarantees specified in Section 13.01(a).
Guarantee
          "" means TW NY and TWE, in each case unless and until such entity is released from its Guarantee pursuant to the provisions of Section 13.01(g).
Guarantors
          "", when used with respect to any Security, means a Securityholder, which means a Person in whose name a security is registered in the Security Register.
Holder
          "" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments and (c) all guarantee obligations of such Person with respect to Indebtedness For Borrowed Money of others. The Indebtedness For Borrowed Money of any Person shall include the Indebtedness For Borrowed Money of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other contractual relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness For Borrowed Money provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness For Borrowed Money
 
          "" or "" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 3.01.
Indenture
this Indenture
          "", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
Interest
          "", when used with respect to any series of Securities, means the Stated Maturity of any installment of interest on those Securities.
Interest Payment Date
          "" means any common stock, debt security or other security of a Person which is (or will, upon distribution thereof, be) listed on the NYSE, the American Stock Exchange, NASDAQ or any other national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or approved for quotation in any system of automated dissemination of quotations of securities prices in the United States or for which there is a recognized market maker or trading market.
Marketable Security
          "" means any Person that is a Subsidiary if at the end of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Company, the aggregate amount, determined in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, of securities of, loans and advances to, and other investments in, such Person held by the Company and its other Subsidiaries exceeded 10% of the Company's Consolidated Net Worth.
Material Subsidiary
          "" means any Material Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of the United States of America or any political subdivision thereof (including any State thereof or the District of Columbia).
Material U.S. Subsidiary
          "", when used with respect to any Securities, means the date on which the principal of any such Security becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether on a Repayment Date, at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
          "" shall mean the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Capital Market.
NASDAQ
          "" shall mean the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
          "" means a certificate signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer or any Senior Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee. Wherever this Indenture requires that an Officers' Certificate be signed also by a financial expert or an accountant or other expert, such financial expert, accountant or other expert (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Indenture) may be in the employ of the Company, and shall be acceptable to the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate
          "" means a written opinion of counsel, who may (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Indenture) be an employee of or of counsel to the Company, which is delivered to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
          "" means (i) any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof, and (ii) any other security which is issued with "original issue discount" within the meaning of Section 1273(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.
Original Issue Discount Security
          "", when used with respect to the Securities or Securities of any series, means, as of the date of determination, all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
     (i) such Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
     (ii) such Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent in trust for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
     (iii) such Securities in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, or which shall have been paid pursuant to the terms of Section 3.06 (except with respect to any such Security as to which proof satisfactory to the Trustee is presented that such Security is held by a Person in whose hands such Security is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company).
In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of such Securities Outstanding have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, (i) the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of the taking of such action upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof, and (ii) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding. In determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer assigned to the Corporate Trust Department of the Trustee knows to be owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right to act as owner with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor.
          "" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company. The Company initially authorizes the Trustee to act as Paying Agent for the Securities on its behalf. The Company may at any time and from time to time authorize one or more Persons to act as Paying Agent in addition to or in place of the Trustee with respect to any series of Securities issued under this Indenture.
Paying Agent
 
          "" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
          "" means with respect to any series of Securities issued hereunder the city or political subdivision so designated with respect to the series of Securities in question in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01.
Place of Payment
          "" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.06 in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the lost, destroyed or stolen Security.
Predecessor Securities
          "", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
          "", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price specified in the Security at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
          "" shall mean the occurrence of (a) any general suspension of trading in, or limitation on prices for, securities on the principal national securities exchange on which shares of Common Stock or Marketable Securities are registered and listed for trading (or, if shares of Common Stock or Marketable Securities are not registered and listed for trading on any such exchange, in the over-the-counter market) for more than six-and-one-half (6-1/2) consecutive trading hours, (b) any decline in either the Dow Jones Industrial Average or the S&P 500 Index (or any successor index published by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. or S&P) by either (i) an amount in excess of 10%, measured from the close of business on any Trading Day to the close of business on the next succeeding Trading Day during the period commencing on the Trading Day preceding the day notice of any redemption of Securities is given (or, if such notice is given after the close of business on a Trading Day, commencing on such Trading Day) and ending at the time and date fixed for redemption in such notice or (ii) an amount in excess of 15% (or if the time and date fixed for redemption is more than 15 days following the date on which such notice of redemption is given, 20%), measured from the close of business on the Trading Day preceding the day notice of such redemption is given (or, if such notice is given after the close of business on a Trading Day, from such Trading Day) to the close of business on any Trading Day at or prior to the time and date fixed for redemption, (c) a declaration of a banking moratorium or any suspension of payments in respect of banks by Federal or state authorities in the United States or (d) the occurrence of an act of terrorism or commencement of a war or armed hostilities or other national or international calamity directly or indirectly involving the United States which in the reasonable judgment of the Company could have a material adverse effect on the market for the Common Stock or Marketable Securities.
Redemption Rescission Event
          "" for the interest payable on any Security on any Interest Payment Date means the date specified in such Security as the Regular Record Date.
Regular Record Date
          "", when used with respect to any Security to be repaid, means the date fixed for such repayment pursuant to such Security.
Repayment Date
          "", when used with respect to any Security to be repaid, means the price at which it is to be repaid pursuant to such Security.
Repayment Price
 
          "", when used with respect to any Security, has the meaning set forth in Section 1.14.
Required Currency
          "", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee with direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject. "Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Company, means any of the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Treasurer or Controller of the Company (or any equivalent of the foregoing officers).
Responsible Officer
          "" means Standard & Poor's Rating Service or any successor to the rating agency business thereto.
S&P
          "" or "" means any note or notes, bond or bonds, debenture or debentures, or any other evidences of indebtedness, as the case may be, of any series authenticated and delivered from time to time under this Indenture.
Security
Securities
          "" shall have the meaning specified in Section 3.05.
Security Register
          "" means the Person who keeps the Security Register specified in Section 3.05. The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as Security Registrar for the Securities on its behalf. The Company may at any time and from time to time authorize any Person to act as Security Registrar in place of the Trustee with respect to any series of Securities issued under this Indenture.
Security Registrar
          "" means a Person in whose name a security is registered in the Security Register.
Securityholder
          "" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.07.
Special Record Date
          "" when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation more than 50% of the voting stock of which is owned directly or indirectly by such Person, and any partnership, association, joint venture or other entity in which such Person owns more than 50% of the equity interests or has the power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other governing body.
Subsidiary
          "" shall mean, with respect to the Common Stock or a Marketable Security, so long as the common stock or such Marketable Security, as the case may be, is listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, a day on which the NYSE is open for the transaction of business, or, if the Common Stock or such Marketable Security, as the case may be, is not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such Marketable Security, as the case may be, is listed is open for the transaction of business, or, if the Common Stock or such Marketable Security, as the case may be, is not so listed or admitted for trading on any national securities exchange, a day on
Trading Day
 
which the member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. selected by the Company to provide pricing information for the Common Stock or such Marketable Security is open for the transaction of business.
          "" or "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; provided, however, that, in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" or "TIA" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
TIA
          "" means the Person named as the Trustee in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean and include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder. If at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
Trustee
          "" means TW NY Cable Holding Inc., until a successor shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "TW NY" shall mean such successor.
TW NY
          "" means Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., until a successor shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "TWE" shall mean such successor.
TWE
          "" when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president", including without limitation, an assistant vice president.
Vice President
          "", as applied to the stock of any corporation, means stock of any class or classes (however designated) having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the members of the board of directors (or other governing body) of such corporation other than stock having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency.
Voting Stock
          "" means the yield to maturity on a series of Securities, calculated by the Company at the time of issuance of such series of Securities, or, if applicable, at the most recent redetermination of interest on such series, in accordance with accepted financial practice.
Yield to Maturity
     SECTION 1.02 Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any (including any covenants compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent), provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such Counsel all such conditions precedent, if any (including any covenants compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent), have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
 
          Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than annual statements of compliance provided pursuant to Section 10.04) shall include:
          (1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
          (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
          (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
          (4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     SECTION 1.03 In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons may certify or give an opinion as to the other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
          Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such Counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
          Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
     SECTION 1.04 (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Securityholders or Securityholders of any series may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Securityholders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing or may be embodied in or evidenced by an electronic transmission which identifies the documents containing the proposal on which such consent is requested and certifies such Securityholders' consent thereto and agreement to be bound thereby; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee, and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. If any Securities are denominated in coin or currency other
Acts of Securityholders.
 
than that of the United States, then for the purposes of determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities have taken any action as herein described, the principal amount of such Securities shall be deemed to be that amount of United States dollars that could be obtained for such principal amount on the basis of the spot rate of exchange into United States dollars for the currency in which such Securities are denominated (as evidenced to the Trustee by an Officers' Certificate) as of the date the taking of such action by the Holders of such requisite principal amount is evidenced to the Trustee as provided in the immediately preceding sentence. If any Securities are Original Issue Discount Securities, then for the purposes of determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities have taken any action as herein described, the principal amount of such Original Issue Discount Securities shall be deemed to be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof as of the date the taking of such action by the Holders of such requisite principal amount is evidenced to the Trustee as provided in the first sentence of this Section 1.04(a). Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Securityholders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.01) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
          (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness to such execution or by the certificate of any notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by an officer of a corporation or a member of a partnership, on behalf of such corporation or partnership, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
          (c) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
          (d) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, the Company may, at its option, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. Such record date shall be the later of 10 days prior to the first solicitation of such action or the date of the most recent list of Holders furnished to the Trustee pursuant to Section 7.01. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action may be given before or after the record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on the record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Securities outstanding have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, and for that purpose the Securities outstanding shall be computed as of the record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on the record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date, and that no such authorization, agreement or consent may be amended, withdrawn or revoked once given by a Holder, unless the Company shall provide for such amendment, withdrawal or revocation in conjunction with such solicitation of authorizations, agreements or consents or unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
 
          (e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action by the Holder of any Security shall bind the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof, in respect of anything done or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
     SECTION 1.05 Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Securityholders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with:
Notices, etc., to Trustee and Company.
          (1) the Trustee by any Securityholder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration; or
          (2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Securityholder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (except as provided in Section 5.01(4) or, in the case of a request for repayment, as specified in the Security carrying the right to repayment) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument, Attention: General Counsel, or at the address last furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
     SECTION 1.06 Where this Indenture or any Security provides for notice to Securityholders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein or in such Security expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Securityholder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Securityholders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Securityholder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Securityholders. Where this Indenture or any Security provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Securityholders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
Notices to Securityholders; Waiver.
          In case, by reason of the suspension of regular mail service as a result of a strike, work stoppage or otherwise, it shall be impractical to mail notice of any event to any Securityholder when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, then any method of notification as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee and the Company shall be deemed to be a sufficient giving of such notice.
     SECTION 1.07 If and to the extent that any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by, or with another provision (an "") included in this Indenture by operation of, any of Sections 310 to 318, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties or incorporated provision shall control.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
incorporated provision
     SECTION 1.08 The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
 
     SECTION 1.09 All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company and the Guarantors shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns.
     SECTION 1.10 In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause.
     SECTION 1.11 Nothing in this Indenture or in any Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any Authenticating Agent or Paying Agent, the Security Registrar and the Holders of Securities (or such of them as may be affected thereby), any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Benefits of Indenture.
     SECTION 1.12 This Indenture shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
     SECTION 1.13 This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
     SECTION 1.14 The Company agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of, or premium or interest, if any, on the Securities of any series (the "") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the ""), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in the City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Banking Day preceding that on which a final unappealable judgment is given and (b) its obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with subsection (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable and (iii) shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture. For purposes of the foregoing, "" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in the City of New York or a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
Judgment Currency.
Required Currency
Judgment Currency
New York Banking Day
     SECTION 2.01 The Securities shall have such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon, as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities
Forms Generally.
 
exchange, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. Any portion of the text of any Security may be set forth on the reverse thereof, with an appropriate reference thereto on the face of the Security.
          The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any combination of these methods on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities, subject, with respect to the Securities of any series, to the rules of any securities exchange on which such Securities are listed.
     SECTION 2.02 Each Security shall be in one of the forms approved from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto. Prior to the delivery of a Security to the Trustee for authentication in any form approved by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee the Board Resolution by or pursuant to which such form of Security has been approved, which Board Resolution shall have attached thereto a true and correct copy of the form of Security which has been approved thereby or, if a Board Resolution authorizes a specific officer or officers to approve a form of Security, a certificate of such officer or officers approving the form of Security attached thereto. Any form of Security approved by or pursuant to a Board Resolution must be acceptable as to form to the Trustee, such acceptance to be evidenced by the Trustee's authentication of Securities in that form or a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee and delivered to the Company.
Forms of Securities.
     SECTION 2.03 The form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for any Security issued pursuant to this Indenture shall be substantially as follows:
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
     THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee,
     SECTION 2.04 (a) If the Company shall establish pursuant to Sections 2.02 and 3.01 that the Securities of a particular series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee or its agent shall, in accordance with Section 3.03 and the Company Order delivered to the Trustee or its agent thereunder, authenticate and deliver, such Global Security or Securities, which (i) shall represent, and shall be denominated in an
Securities Issuable in the Form of a Global Security.
 
amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, the Outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by such Global Security or Securities, or such portion thereof as the Company shall specify in a Company Order, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depository for such Global Security or Securities or its nominee, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee or its agent to the Depository or pursuant to the Depository's instruction and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect: "Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of the Depository to Issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of the nominee of the Depository or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to the nominee of the Depository or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, the nominee of the Depository, has an interest herein."
               (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2.04 or of Section 3.05, and subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) below, unless the terms of a Global Security expressly permit such Global Security to be exchanged in whole or in part for individual Securities, a Global Security may be transferred, in whole but not in part and in the manner provided in Section 3.05, only to a nominee of the Depository for such Global Security, or to the Depository, or a successor Depository for such Global Security selected or approved by the Company, or to a nominee of such successor Depository.
               (c) (i) If at any time the Depository for a Global Security notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for such Global Security or if at any time the Depository for the Securities for such series shall no longer be eligible or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, the Company shall appoint a successor Depository with respect to such Global Security. If a successor Depository for such Global Security is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company will execute, and the Trustee or its agent, upon receipt of a Company Request for the authentication and delivery of individual Securities of such series in exchange for such Global Security, will authenticate and deliver, individual Securities of such series of like tenor and terms in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security in exchange for such Global Security.
     (ii) The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that the Securities of any series or portion thereof issued or issuable in the form of one or more Global Securities shall no longer be represented by such Global Security or Securities. In such event the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Request for the authentication and delivery of individual Securities of such series in exchange in whole or in part for such Global Security, will authenticate and deliver individual Securities of such series of like tenor and terms in definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Security or Securities representing such series or portion thereof in exchange for such Global Security or Securities.
     (iii) If specified by the Company pursuant to Sections 2.02 and 3.02 with respect to Securities issued or issuable in the form of a Global Security, the Depository for such Global Security may surrender such Global Security in exchange in whole or in part for individual Securities of such series of like tenor and terms in definitive form on such terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depository. Thereupon the Company shall execute, and the
 
Trustee or its agent shall authenticate and deliver, without service charge, (1) to each Person specified by such Depository a new Security or Securities of the same series of like tenor and terms and of any authorized denomination as requested by such Person in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest as specified by such Depository in the Global Security; and (2) to such Depository a new Global Security of like tenor and terms and in an authorized denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Global Security and the aggregate principal amount of Securities delivered to Holders thereof.
     (iv) In any exchange provided for in any of the preceding three paragraphs, the Company will execute and the Trustee or its agent will authenticate and deliver individual Securities in definitive registered form in authorized denominations. Upon the exchange of the entire principal amount of a Global Security for individual Securities, such Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee or its agent. Except as provided in the preceding paragraph, Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security pursuant to this Section shall be registered in such names and in such authorized denominations as the Depository for such Global Security, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee or the Security Registrar. The Trustee or the Security Registrar shall deliver at its Corporate Trust Office such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
          SECTION 3.01 The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered and Outstanding under this Indenture is not limited.
General Title; General Limitations; Issuable in Series; Terms of Particular Series.
               The Securities may be issued in one or more series as from time to time may be authorized by the Board of Directors. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in an indenture supplemental hereto, subject to Section 3.11, prior to the issuance of Securities of any such series:
               (1) the title of the Securities of such series (which shall distinguish the Securities of such series from Securities of any other series);
               (2) the Person to whom any interest on a Security of such series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest;
               (3) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of such series is payable;
               (4) the rate or rates at which the Securities of such series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for any interest payable on any Interest Payment Date;
 
               (5) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of such series shall be payable;
               (6) the period or periods within which, the Redemption Price or Prices or the Repayment Price or Prices, as the case may be, at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of such series may be redeemed or repaid (including the applicability of Section 11.09), as the case may be, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company or the Holder;
               (7) the obligation, if any, of the Company to purchase Securities of such series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of such series shall be purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
               (8) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of such series shall be issuable;
               (9) provisions, if any, with regard to the conversion or exchange of the Securities of such series, at the option of the Holders thereof or the Company, as the case may be, for or into new Securities of a different series, Common Stock or other securities and, if the Securities of such series are convertible into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities, the Conversion Price therefor;
               (10) if other than U.S. dollars, the currency or currencies or units based on or related to currencies in which the Securities of such series shall be denominated and in which payments of principal of, and any premium and interest on, such Securities shall or may be payable;
               (11) if the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of such series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a coin or currency (including a composite currency) other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made;
               (12) if the amount of payments of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of such series may be determined with reference to an index based on a coin or currency (including a composite currency) other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
               (13) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of such series pursuant to Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 9.06, 11.07 and 12.02 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 3.03, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
               (14) provisions, if any, with regard to the exchange of Securities of such series, at the option of the Holders thereof, for other Securities of the same series of the
 
same aggregate principal amount or of a different authorized series or different authorized denomination or denominations, or both;
               (15) provisions, if any, with regard to the appointment by the Company of an Authenticating Agent in one or more places other than the location of the office of the Trustee with power to act on behalf of the Trustee and subject to its direction in the authentication and delivery of the Securities of any one or more series in connection with such transactions as shall be specified in the provisions of this Indenture or in or pursuant to such Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto;
               (16) the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series, if other than the principal amount thereof, which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02 or provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 5.04;
               (17) any Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series, if not set forth herein, and any additions, deletions or other changes to the Events of Default set forth herein that shall be applicable to the Securities of such series;
               (18) any covenant solely for the benefit of the Securities of such series and any additions, deletions or other changes to the provisions of Article VIII, Article X or Section 1.01 or any definitions relating to such Article that would otherwise be applicable to the Securities of such series;
               (19) if Section 4.03 of this Indenture shall not be applicable to the Securities of such series and if Section 4.03 shall be applicable to any covenant or Event of Default established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in an indenture supplemental hereto as described above that has not already been established herein;
               (20) if the Securities of such series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of a Global Security or Securities, the terms and conditions, if any, upon which such Global Security or Securities may be exchanged in whole or in part for other individual Securities; and the Depository for such Global Security or Securities; and
               (21) any other terms of such series, including, without limitations, any restrictions on transfer related thereto.
all upon such terms as may be determined in or pursuant to such Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto with respect to such series.
          The form of the Securities of each series shall be established pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture in or pursuant to the Board Resolution or in the indenture supplemental hereto creating such series. The Securities of each series shall be distinguished from the Securities of each other series in such manner, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, as the Board of Directors may determine.
          Unless otherwise provided with respect to Securities of a particular series, the Securities of any series may only be issuable in registered form, without coupons.
 
          Any terms or provisions in respect of the Securities of any series issued under this Indenture may be determined pursuant to this Section by providing for the method by which such terms or provisions shall be determined.
     SECTION 3.02 The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations and currency as shall be provided in the provisions of this Indenture or in or pursuant to the Board Resolution or the indenture supplemental hereto creating such series. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of that series shall be issuable only in fully registered form in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
Denominations.
     SECTION 3.03 The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer, its Chief Operating Officer, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer and attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
Execution, Authentication and Delivery and Dating.
          Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
          At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication; and the Trustee shall, upon Company Order, authenticate and deliver such Securities as in this Indenture provided and not otherwise.
          Prior to any such authentication and delivery, the Trustee shall be provided with the Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to Section 1.02, and the Board Resolution and any certificate relating to the issuance of the series of Securities required to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.02, an Opinion of Counsel substantially to the effect that:
               (1) all instruments furnished to the Trustee conform to the requirements of the Indenture and constitute sufficient authority hereunder for the Trustee to authenticate and deliver such Securities;
               (2) the form and terms of such Securities have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
               (3) all laws and requirements with respect to the execution and delivery by the Company of such Securities have been complied with, the Company has the corporate power to issue such Securities and such Securities have been duly authorized and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authentication and delivery by the Trustee, constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws and legal principles affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general equitable principles, whether applied in an action at law or in equity) and entitled to the benefits of this Indenture, equally and ratably with all other Securities, if any, of such series Outstanding;
 
               (4) when applicable, the Indenture is qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; and
               (5) such other matters as the Trustee may reasonably request;
and, if the authentication and delivery relates to a new series of Securities created by an indenture supplemental hereto, also stating that all laws and requirements with respect to the form and execution by the Company of the supplemental indenture with respect to that series of Securities have been complied with, the Company has corporate power to execute and deliver any such supplemental indenture and has taken all necessary corporate action for those purposes and any such supplemental indenture has been duly executed and delivered and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable in accordance with its terms (subject, as to enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws and legal principles affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general equitable principles, whether applied in an action at law or in equity).
          The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue thereof will adversely affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture.
          Unless otherwise provided in the form of Security for any series, all Securities shall be dated the date of their authentication.
          No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual or facsimile signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 3.09, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
     SECTION 3.04 Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and, upon receipt of the documents required by Section 3.03, together with a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Temporary Securities.
          If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of such series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment, without charge to the Holder; and upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of such series of authorized denominations and of like tenor and
 
terms. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of such series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
     SECTION 3.05 The Company shall keep or cause to be kept a register or registers (herein sometimes referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities, or of Securities of a particular series, and of transfers of Securities or of Securities of such series. Any such register shall be in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. At all reasonable times the information contained in such register or registers shall be available for inspection by the Trustee at the office or agency to be maintained by the Company as provided in Section 10.02. There shall be only one Security Register per series of Securities.
Registration, Transfer and Exchange.
Security Register
          Subject to Section 2.04, upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in a Place of Payment, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of such series of any authorized denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity and of like tenor and terms.
          Subject to Section 2.04, at the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of such series of any authorized denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount and Stated Maturity and of like tenor and terms, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Securityholder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
          All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
          Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
          Unless otherwise provided in the Security to be registered for transfer or exchanged, no service charge shall be made on any Securityholder for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may (unless otherwise provided in such Security) require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, 9.06 or 11.07 not involving any transfer.
          The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of such series selected for redemption under Section 11.03 and ending at the close of business on the date of such mailing, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part.
 
          None of the Company, the Trustee, any agent of the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
          SECTION 3.06 If (i) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and (ii) there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor, series, Stated Maturity and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
          In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
          Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
          Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of the same series duly issued hereunder.
          The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
     SECTION 3.07 Unless otherwise provided with respect to such Security pursuant to Section 3.01, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
          Any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of his having been such Holder; and, except as hereinafter provided, such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or Clause (2) below:
Defaulted Interest
          (1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names any such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment
 
of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner (the "Special Record Date"). The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each such Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 nor less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to the Holder of each such Security at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names such Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
          (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
          If any installment of interest the Stated Maturity of which is on or prior to the Redemption Date for any Security called for redemption pursuant to Article XI is not paid or duly provided for on or prior to the Redemption Date in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section, such interest shall be payable as part of the Redemption Price of such Securities.
          Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
          SECTION 3.08 The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any), and (subject to Section 3.07) interest on, such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners.
          None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.
 
          SECTION 3.09 All Securities surrendered for payment, conversion, redemption, registration of transfer, exchange or credit against a sinking fund shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and, if not already canceled, shall be promptly canceled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Security shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee shall dispose of all canceled Securities in accordance with its standard procedures and deliver a certificate of such disposition to the Company upon its written request therefor.
Cancellation.
          SECTION 3.10 Unless otherwise provided as contemplated in Section 3.01, interest on the Securities shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Computation of Interest.
          SECTION 3.11 Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary for the Company to deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate, Board Resolution, indenture supplemental hereto, opinion of counsel or Company Order otherwise required pursuant to Sections 1.02, 2.02, 3.01 and 3.03 at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered to the Trustee or its agent at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued; provided that any subsequent request by the Company to the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series upon original issuance shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Company that as of the date of such request, the statements made in the Officers' Certificate or other certificates delivered pursuant to Sections 1.02 and 2.02 shall be true and correct as if made on such date.
Delayed Issuance of Securities.
          A Company Order, Officers' Certificate or Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto delivered by the Company to the Trustee in the circumstances set forth in the preceding paragraph may provide that Securities which are the subject thereof will be authenticated and delivered by the Trustee or its agent on original issue from time to time in the aggregate principal amount, if any, established for such series pursuant to such procedures reasonably acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified from time to time by Company Order upon the telephonic, electronic or written order of Persons designated in such Company Order, Officers' Certificate, indenture supplemental hereto or Board Resolution (any such telephonic or electronic instructions to be promptly confirmed in writing by such Persons) and that such Persons are authorized to determine, consistent with such Company Order, Officers' Certificate, indenture supplemental hereto or Board Resolution, such terms and conditions of said Securities as are specified in such Company Order, Officers' Certificate, indenture supplemental hereto or Board Resolution.
          SECTION 4.01 This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect with respect to any series of Securities (except as to any surviving rights of conversion or registration of transfer or exchange of Securities of such series expressly
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
 
provided for herein or in the form of Security for such series), and the Trustee, on receipt of a Company Request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series, when:
          (1) either
               (A) all Securities of that series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities of such series which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.06, and (ii) Securities of such series for whose payment money in the Required Currency has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 10.03) have been delivered to the Trustee canceled or for cancellation; or
               (B) all such Securities of that series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee canceled or for cancellation:
     (i) have become due and payable, or
     (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
     (iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount in the Required Currency sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee canceled or for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any) and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable), or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
               (2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to the Securities of such series; and
               (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee with respect to that series under Section 6.07 shall survive and the obligations of the Company and the Trustee under Sections 3.05, 3.06, 4.02, 10.02 and 10.03 shall survive such satisfaction and discharge.
          SECTION 4.02 Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 10.03, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.01 or Section 4.03 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the series of Securities in respect of which it was deposited and this Indenture, to the payment,
Application of Trust Money.
 
either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
          Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or securities deposited with and held by it as provided in Section 4.03 and this Section 4.02 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent satisfaction and discharge, Discharge (as defined below) or covenant defeasance, provided that the Trustee shall not be required to liquidate any securities in order to comply with the provisions of this paragraph.
          SECTION 4.03 Unless pursuant to Section 3.01 provision is made that this Section shall not be applicable to the Securities of any series, at the Company's option, either (a) the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have been Discharged (as defined below) from their obligations with respect to any series of Securities after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied or (b) the Company shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 10.05 and 10.06 and Article VIII (and any other Sections or covenants applicable to such Securities that are determined pursuant to Section 3.01 to be subject to this provision), the Guarantors shall be released from the Guarantees and Clause (4) of Section 5.01 of this Indenture (and any other Events of Default applicable to such Securities that are determined pursuant to Section 3.01 to be subject to this provision) shall be deemed not to be an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities at any time after the applicable conditions set forth below have been satisfied:
Defeasance Upon Deposit of Funds or Government Obligations.
          (1) the Company shall have deposited or caused to be deposited irrevocably with the Trustee as trust funds, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, (i) money in an amount, or (ii) the equivalent in securities of the government which issued the currency in which the Securities are denominated or government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of such government which through the payment of interest and principal in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide freely available funds on or prior to the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii), sufficient, in the opinion (with respect to (ii) and (iii)) of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge each installment of principal (including mandatory sinking fund payments) and any premium of, interest on and any repurchase or redemption obligations with respect to the outstanding Securities of such series on the dates such installments of interest or principal or repurchase or redemption obligations are due (before such a deposit, if the Securities of such series are then redeemable or may be redeemed in the future pursuant to the terms thereof, in either case at the option of the Company, the Company may give to the Trustee, in accordance with Section 11.02, a notice of its election to redeem all of the Securities of such series at a future date in accordance with Article XI);
          (2) no Event of Default or event (including such deposit) which with notice or lapse of time would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such
 
series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit (other than an Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit);
          (3) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that Holders of the Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the Company's exercise of its option under this Section 4.03 and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such option had not been exercised, and, in the case of Securities being Discharged, accompanied by a ruling to that effect from the Internal Revenue Service, unless, as set forth in such Opinion of Counsel, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law since the date of this Indenture such that a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service is no longer required;
          (4) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit referred to in paragraph (1) above was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the Holders over other creditors of the Company or with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others; and
          (5) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series have been complied with.
          If the Company, at its option, with respect to a series of Securities, satisfies the applicable conditions pursuant to either clause (a) or (b) of the first sentence of this Section, then (x), in the event the Company satisfies the conditions to clause (a) and elects clause (a) to be applicable, each of the Guarantors shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by, and obligations under, its respective guarantee of the Securities of such series and to have satisfied all the obligations under this Indenture relating to the Securities of such series and (y) in either case, each of the Guarantors shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Article VIII (and any other covenants applicable to such Securities that are determined pursuant to Section 3.01 to be subject to this provision), and clause (4) of Section 5.01 (and any other Events of Default applicable to such series of Securities that are determined pursuant to Section 3.01 to be subject to this provision) shall be deemed not to be an Event of Default with respect to such series of Securities at any time thereafter.
          "" means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by, and obligations under, the Securities of such series and to have satisfied all the obligations under this Indenture relating to the Securities of such series (and the Trustee, on receipt of a Company Request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except (A) the rights of Holders of Securities to receive, from the trust fund described in clause (1) above, payment of the principal and any premium of and any interest on such Securities when such payments are due; (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 3.05, 3.06, 4.02, 6.07, 10.02 and 10.03; (C) the Company's right of redemption, if any, with respect to any Securities of such series pursuant to Article XI, in which case the Company may redeem the Securities of such series in accordance with Article XI by complying with such Article and depositing with the Trustee, in accordance with Section 11.05, an amount of money sufficient,
Discharged
 
together with all amounts held in trust pursuant to Section 4.02 with respect to Securities of such series, to pay the Redemption Price of all the Securities of such series to be redeemed; and (D) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder. A "" shall mean the meeting by the Company of the foregoing requirements.
Discharge
          SECTION 4.04 If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or securities in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Indenture, by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's and, if applicable, the Guarantors' obligations under this Indenture and the Securities shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 4.01 or 4.03 of this Indenture, as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money or securities in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Indenture; provided that, if the Company has made any payment of principal of or interest on any Securities because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money or securities held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement.
          SECTION 5.01 "", wherever used herein, means with respect to any series of Securities any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body), unless such event is either inapplicable to a particular series or it is specifically deleted or modified in or pursuant to the indenture supplemental hereto or Board Resolution creating such series of Securities or in the form of Security for such series:
Events of Default.
Event of Default
          (1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
          (2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
          (3) default in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation when the same becomes due by the terms of the Securities of such series; or
          (4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company, or any Guarantor in this Indenture in respect of the Securities of such series (other than a covenant or warranty in respect of the Securities of such series a default in the performance of which or the breach of which is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), all of such covenants and warranties in the Indenture which are not expressly stated to be for the benefit of a particular series of Securities being deemed in respect of the Securities of all series for this purpose, and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least
 
25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder; or
Notice of Default
          (5) the entry of an order for relief against the Company or any Material U.S. Subsidiary thereof under Title 11, United States Code (the "") by a court having jurisdiction in the premises or a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises adjudging the Company or any Material U.S. Subsidiary thereof a bankrupt or insolvent under any other applicable Federal or State law, or the entry of a decree or order approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or any Material U.S. Subsidiary thereof under the Federal Bankruptcy Act or any other applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or any Material U.S. Subsidiary thereof or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
Federal Bankruptcy Act
          (6) the consent by the Company or any Material U.S. Subsidiary thereof to the institution of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under the Federal Bankruptcy Act or any other applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or any Material U.S. Subsidiary thereof or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company or any Material U.S. Subsidiary thereof in furtherance of any such action; or
          (7) any Guarantee shall for any reason cease to be, or be asserted in writing by any Guarantor or the Company not to be, in full force and effect, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent contemplated by this Indenture and any such Guarantee; or
          (8) any other Event of Default provided in the indenture supplemental hereto or Board Resolution under which such series of Securities is issued or in the form of Security for such series.
          SECTION 5.02 If an Event of Default described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (7) or (8) (if the Event of Default under paragraph (4) or (8) is with respect to less than all series of Securities then Outstanding) of Section 5.01 occurs and is continuing with respect to any series, then and in each and every such case, unless the principal of all the Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding hereunder (each such series acting as a separate class), by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), may declare the principal amount (or, if the Securities of such series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all the Securities of such series and all accrued interest thereon to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, anything in this Indenture or in the Securities of such series
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
 
contained to the contrary notwithstanding. If an Event of Default described in paragraph (4) or (8) (if the Event of Default under paragraph (4) or (8) is with respect to all series of Securities then Outstanding), of Section 5.01 occurs and is continuing, then and in each and every such case, unless the principal of all the Securities shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of all the Securities then Outstanding hereunder (treated as one class), by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), may declare the principal amount (or, if any Securities are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms thereof) of all the Securities then Outstanding and all accrued interest thereon to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, anything in this Indenture or in the Securities contained to the contrary notwithstanding. If an Event of Default of the type set forth in paragraph (5) or (6) of Section 5.01 occurs and is continuing, the principal of and any interest on the Securities then outstanding shall become immediately due and payable.
          At any time after such a declaration of acceleration has been made with respect to the Securities of any or all series, as the case may be, and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
          (1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay:
               (A) all overdue installments of interest on the Securities of such series; and
               (B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of such series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration, and interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor by the terms of the Securities of such series, to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful; and
               (C) interest upon overdue installments of interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor by the terms of the Securities of such series to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful; and
               (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07; and
          (2) all Events of Default with respect to such series of Securities, other than the nonpayment of the principal of the Securities of such series which have become due solely by such acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 5.13.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
          SECTION 5.03 The Company covenants that if:
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
 
          (1) default is made in the payment of any installment of interest on any Security of any series when such interest becomes due and payable; or
          (2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof; or
          (3) default is made in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation when the same becomes due by the terms of the Securities of any series;
and any such default continues for any period of grace provided with respect to the Securities of such series, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holder of any such Security (or the Holders of any such series in the case of Clause (3) above), the whole amount then due and payable on any such Security (or on the Securities of any such series in the case of Clause (3) above) for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, with interest, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon the overdue principal (and premium, if any) and upon overdue installments of interest, at such rate or rates as may be prescribed therefor by the terms of any such Security (or of Securities of any such series in the case of Clause (3) above); and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07.
          If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series and collect the money adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
          If an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
          SECTION 5.04 In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise:
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
     (i) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (or portion thereof determined pursuant to Section 3.01(16) to be provable in bankruptcy) (and premium, if any) and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or
 
documents as may be necessary and advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07) and of the Securityholders allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
     (ii) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator (or other similar official) in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Securityholder to make such payment to the Trustee and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Securityholders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07.
          Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Securityholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Securityholder in any such proceeding.
          SECTION 5.05 All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities of any series may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities of such series or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agent and counsel and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities of the series in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.
          SECTION 5.06 Any money collected by the Trustee with respect to a series of Securities pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, upon presentation of the Securities of such series and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
Application of Money Collected.
          FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07.
          SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon the Securities of that series for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, respectively.
          THIRD: To the Company.
          SECTION 5.07 No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this
Limitation on Suits.
 
Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
          (1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series;
          (2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of such series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
          (3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
          (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
          (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders of Securities of such series shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders of Securities of such series, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and proportionate benefit of all the Holders of all Securities of such series.
          SECTION 5.08 Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 3.07) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such right shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Unconditional Right of Securityholders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
          SECTION 5.09 If the Trustee or any Securityholder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee and the Securityholders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Securityholders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
          SECTION 5.10 No right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Securityholders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or
Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
 
remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
          SECTION 5.11 No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Securityholders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Securityholders, as the case may be.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
          SECTION 5.12 The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that:
Control by Securityholders.
          (1) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that the action so directed may not lawfully be taken or would conflict with this Indenture or if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer, determine that the proceedings so directed would involve it in personal liability or be unjustly prejudicial to the Holders not taking part in such direction, and
          (2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
          SECTION 5.13 The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default not theretofore cured:
Waiver of Past Defaults.
          (1) in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security of such series, or in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation with respect to the Securities of such series, or
          (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article IX cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series.
          Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
          SECTION 5.14 All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and
Undertaking for Costs.
 
good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder, or group of Securityholders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series to which the suit relates, or to any suit instituted by any Securityholder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on an Security on or after the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, as the case may be).
          SECTION 5.15 The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
          SECTION 6.01 (a) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities:
Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
          (1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
          (2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may, with respect to Securities of such series, conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
          (b) In case an Event of Default with respect to any series of Securities has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise with respect to the Securities of such series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and any indenture supplemental hereto or Board Resolution relating to such series of Securities, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
          (c) No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
          (1) this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsection (a) of this Section;
          (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
          (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series; and
          (4) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
          (d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
          SECTION 6.02 Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Securityholders of such series, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such default hereunder known to the Trustee, unless such default shall have been cured or waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking or purchase fund installment or analogous obligation with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Securityholders of such series; and provided, further, that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 5.01(4) with respect to Securities of such series no such notice to Securityholders of such series shall be given until at least 90 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default", with respect to Securities of any series, means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
Notice of Defaults.
          SECTION 6.03 Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.01:
Certain Rights of Trustee.
     (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
     (b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
     (c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
     (d) the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or an Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
     (e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Securityholders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
     (f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;
     (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
     (h) the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any default (as defined in Section 6.02) or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series for which it is acting as Trustee unless either (1) a Responsible Officer of the Trustee assigned to the Corporate Trust Department of the Trustee (or any successor division or department of the Trustee) shall have actual knowledge of such default or Event of Default or (2) written notice of such default or Event of Default shall have been given to the Trustee by the Company or any other obligor on such Securities or by any Holder of such Securities;
     (i) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture; and
     (j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
 
          SECTION 6.04 The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
          SECTION 6.05 The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, the Security Registrar, any Conversion Agent or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 6.08 and 6.13, may otherwise deal with the Company or any Guarantor with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar, Conversion Agent or such other agent.
May Hold Securities.
          SECTION 6.06 Subject to the provisions of Section 10.03 hereof, all moneys in any currency or currency received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
Money Held in Trust.
          SECTION 6.07 The Company agrees:
Compensation and Reimbursement.
          (1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
          (2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by its own negligence or bad faith; and
          (3) to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
          As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on particular Securities.
          When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(5) or (6), the expenses and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any bankruptcy law.
          The Company's obligations under this Section 6.07 and any lien arising hereunder shall survive the resignation or removal of any Trustee, the discharge of the
 
Company's obligations pursuant to Article IV of this Indenture and/or the termination of this Indenture.
          SECTION 6.08 The Trustee for the Securities of any series issued hereunder shall be subject to the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act during the period of time provided for therein. In determining whether the Trustee has a conflicting interest as defined in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to the Securities of any series, there shall be excluded this Indenture with respect to Securities of any particular series of Securities other than that series. Nothing herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the second to last paragraph of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
          SECTION 6.09 There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder with respect to each series of Securities, which shall be either:
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
     (i) a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any State, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority, or
     (ii) a corporation or other Person organized and doing business under the laws of a foreign government that is permitted to act as Trustee pursuant to a rule, regulation or order of the Commission, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, and subject to supervision or examination by authority of such foreign government or a political subdivision thereof substantially equivalent to supervision or examination applicable to United States institutional trustees;
in either case having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. Neither the Company nor any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Company shall serve as trustee for the Securities of any series issued hereunder. If at any time the Trustee with respect to any series of Securities shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 6.10.
          SECTION 6.10 (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee under Section 6.11.
Resignation and Removal.
          (b) The Trustee may resign with respect to any series of Securities at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
          (c) The Trustee may be removed with respect to any series of Securities at any time by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the removed Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
          (d) If at any time:
          (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act pursuant to Section 6.08 with respect to any series of Securities after written request therefor by the Company or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of that series for at least six months, unless the Trustee's duty to resign is stayed in accordance with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act, or
          (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 6.09 with respect to any series of Securities and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder, or
          (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting with respect to any series of Securities, or
          (4) the Trustee shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee, with respect to the series, or in the case of Clause (4), with respect to all series, or (ii) subject to Section 5.14, any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the series, or, in the case of Clause (4), with respect to all series.
          (e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting with respect to any series of Securities, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Trustee with respect to any series of Securities for any cause, the Company, by Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee for that series of Securities.
If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapacity, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to such series of Securities shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee with respect to such series and supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company with respect to such series. If no successor Trustee with respect to such series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Securityholders of such series and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, subject to Section 5.14, any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of that series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
 
          (f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to any series by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of Securities of that series as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its principal Corporate Trust Office.
          SECTION 6.11 Every successor Trustee appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the predecessor Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor Trustee shall become effective with respect to any series as to which it is resigning or being removed as Trustee, and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor Trustee with respect to any such series; but, on request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such predecessor Trustee shall, upon payment of its reasonable charges, if any, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the predecessor Trustee, and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such predecessor trustee hereunder with respect to all or any such series, subject nevertheless to its lien, if any, provided for in Section 6.07. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts.
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
          In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the predecessor Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any applicable series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto which shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series as to which the predecessor Trustee is not being succeeded shall continue to be vested in the predecessor Trustee, and shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such indenture supplemental hereto shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be Trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee.
          No successor Trustee with respect to any series of Securities shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible with respect to that series under this Article.
          SECTION 6.12 Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
 
          SECTION 6.13 The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
          SECTION 6.14 At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding the Trustee, with the approval of the Company, may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issuance, exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 3.06, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as an Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and, if other than the Company itself, subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
          Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
          An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and, if other than the Company, to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and, if other than the Company, to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee, with the approval of the Company, may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
 
          The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section.
          If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
     THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee,
          SECTION 7.01
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Securityholders.
          The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
          (1) semi-annually, not more than 15 days after December 15 and June 15 in each year in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, a list of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of each series as of such December 15 and June 15, as applicable, and
          (2) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; provided, however, that if and so long as the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar for Securities of a series, no such list need be furnished with respect to such series of Securities.
          SECTION 7.02 (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 7.01 and the names and addresses of Holders of Securities received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar, if so acting. The Trustee
Preservation of Information; Communications to Securityholders.
 
may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 7.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
          (b) If three or more Holders of Securities of any series (hereinafter referred to as "") apply in writing to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security of such series for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants desire to communicate with other Holders of Securities of such series or with the Holders of all Securities with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under such Securities and is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within five Business Days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either:
applicants
          (1) afford such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a), or
          (2) inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders of Securities of such series or all Securities, as the case may be, whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a), and as to the approximate cost of mailing to such Securityholders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such application.
          If the Trustee shall elect not to afford such applicants access to such information, the Trustee shall, upon the written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder of a Security of such series or to all Securityholders, as the case may be, whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with Section 7.02(a), a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless, within five days after such tender, the Trustee shall mail to such applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would be contrary to the best interests of the Holders of Securities of such series or all Securityholders, as the case may be, or would be in violation of applicable law. Such written statement shall specify the basis of such opinion. If the Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, the Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all the objections so sustained have been met and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of such material to all Securityholders of such series or all Securityholders, as the case may be, with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their application.
          (c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities in accordance with Section 7.02(b), regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 7.02(b).
 
          SECTION 7.03 (a) Within 60 days after May 15 of each year commencing with the first May 15 after the issuance of Securities, the Trustee shall transmit by mail, at the Company's expense, to all Holders as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, as provided in Trust Indenture Act 313(c), a brief report dated as of May 15 in accordance with and with respect to the matters required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a).
Reports by Trustee.
          (b) The Trustee shall transmit by mail, at the Company's expense, to all Holders as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, as provided in Trust Indenture Act 313(c), a brief report in accordance with and with respect to the matters required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(b).
          (c) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be furnished to the Company and, in accordance with Trust Indenture Act Section 313(d), be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which the Securities are listed, and also with the Commission.
          SECTION 7.04 The Company shall file with the Trustee, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of Trust Indenture Act Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
Reports by Company.
          SECTION 8.01 None of the Company or any Guarantor shall consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
Consolidation, Merger, Conveyance or Transfer on Certain Terms.
          (1) (a) in the case of the Company, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture (as supplemented from time to time) on the part of the Company to be performed or observed; (b) in the case of any Guarantor, the Person formed by such
 
consolidation or into which such Guarantor is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of such Guarantor substantially as an entirety shall be either (i) the Company or another Guarantor or (ii) a Person organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or the District of Columbia, and in the case of clause (ii), shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the performance of every covenant of this Indenture (as supplemented from time to time) on the part of such Guarantor to be performed or observed;
          (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
          (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer and such indenture supplemental hereto comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Section 8.01 shall not apply to any Guarantor if at such time such Guarantor has been released from its obligations under its Guarantee in accordance with Section 13.01(g).
          SECTION 8.02 Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Company or any Guarantor substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 8.01, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company or such Guarantor is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company or such Guarantor, as the case may be, under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company or such Guarantor herein. In the event of any such conveyance or transfer, the Company or such Guarantor, as the case may be, as the predecessor shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and may be dissolved, wound up or liquidated at any time thereafter.
Successor Person Substituted.
          SECTION 9.01 Without the consent of the Holders of any Securities, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Securityholders.
          (1) to evidence the succession of another corporation or Person to the Company or any Guarantor, and the assumption by any such successor of the respective covenants of the Company or any Guarantor herein and in the Securities contained; or
 
          (2) to add to the covenants of the Company or any Guarantor, or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company or any Guarantor, for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of any or all series (and if such covenants or the surrender of such right or power are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included or such surrenders are expressly being made solely for the benefit of one or more specified series); or
          (3) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture; or
          (4) to add to this Indenture such provisions as may be expressly permitted by the TIA, excluding, however, the provisions referred to in Section 316(a)(2) of the TIA as in effect at the date as of which this instrument was executed or any corresponding provision in any similar federal statute hereafter enacted; or
          (5) to establish any form of Security, as provided in Article II, to provide for the issuance of any series of Securities as provided in Article III and to set forth the terms thereof, and/or to add to the rights of the Holders of the Securities of any series; or
          (6) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by another corporation as a successor Trustee hereunder with respect to one or more series of Securities and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to Section 6.11; or
          (7) to add any additional Events of Default in respect of the Securities of any or all series (and if such additional Events of Default are to be in respect of less than all series of Securities, stating that such Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of one or more specified series); or
          (8) to provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to or in place of certificated Securities and to provide for bearer Securities; provided that uncertificated Securities are issued in registered form for purposes of Section 163(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or in a manner such that the uncertificated Securities are described in Section 163(f)(2)(B) of such Internal Revenue Code; or
          (9) to provide for the terms and conditions of conversion into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities of the Securities of any series which are convertible into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities, if different from those set forth in Article XII; or
          (10) to secure the Securities of any series pursuant to Section 10.06 or otherwise; or
          (11) to add additional guarantors in respect of the Securities; or
          (12) to make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of the Holders of any or all series of Securities; or
 
          (13) to make any change necessary to comply with any requirement of the Commission in connection with the qualification of this Indenture or any supplemental indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
          No supplemental indenture for the purposes identified in Clauses (2), (3), (5) or (7) above may be entered into if to do so would adversely affect the rights of the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series in any material respect.
          SECTION 9.02 With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such supplemental indenture or indentures (acting as one class), by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee (in accordance with Section 1.04 hereof), the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby:
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Securityholders.
          (1) change the Maturity of the principal of, or the Stated Maturity of any premium on, or any installment of interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the interest or any premium thereon, or change the method of computing the amount of principal thereof or interest thereon on any date or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Maturity or the Stated Maturity, as the case may be, thereof (or, in the case of redemption or repayment, on or after the Redemption Date or the Repayment Date, as the case may be), or alter the provisions of this Indenture so as to affect adversely the terms, if any, of conversion of any Securities into Common Stock or other securities; or
          (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences, provided for in this Indenture; or
          (3) modify any of the provisions of this Section 9.02, Section 5.13 or Section 10.07, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; or
          (4) impair or adversely affect the right of any Holder to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on, or with respect to, the Securities of any series on or after the Stated Maturity of such Securities (or in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date); or
          (5) amend or modify Section 13.01 of this Indenture in any manner adverse to the rights of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of any series.
 
          For purposes of this Section 9.02, if the Securities of any series are issuable upon the exercise of warrants, each holder of an unexercised and unexpired warrant with respect to such series shall be deemed to be a Holder of Outstanding Securities of such series in the amount issuable upon the exercise of such warrant. For such purposes, the ownership of any such warrant shall be determined by the Company in a manner consistent with customary commercial practices. The Trustee for such series shall be entitled to rely on an Officers' Certificate as to the principal amount of Securities of such series in respect of which consents shall have been executed by holders of such warrants.
          A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of Holders of Securities of any other series.
          It shall not be necessary for any Act of Securityholders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
          SECTION 9.03 In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
          SECTION 9.04 Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby to the extent provided therein.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
          SECTION 9.05 Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of TIA as then in effect.
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
          SECTION 9.06 Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities.
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
 
          SECTION 10.01 With respect to each series of Securities, the Company will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Securities in accordance with their terms and this Indenture, and will duly comply with all the other terms, agreements and conditions contained in, or made in the Indenture for the benefit of, the Securities of such series.
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
          SECTION 10.02 The Company will maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served and where any Securities with conversion privileges may be presented and surrendered for conversion. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain such office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
          Unless otherwise set forth in, or pursuant to, a Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto with respect to a series of Securities, the Company hereby initially designates as the Place of Payment for each series of Securities, the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, and initially appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as the Company's office or agency for each such purpose in such city.
          SECTION 10.03 If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent for any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on, any of the Securities of such series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided, and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure to act.
Money for Security Payments to Be Held in Trust.
          Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on, any Securities of such series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal (and premium, if any) or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
          The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee for any series of Securities to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
          (1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on Securities of such series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled
 
thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
          (2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series) in the making of any such payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest on the Securities of such series; and
          (3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
          The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent in respect of each and every series of Securities as to which it seeks to discharge this Indenture or, if for any other purpose, all sums so held in trust by the Company in respect of all Securities, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
          Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease. The Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company mail to the Holders of the Securities as to which the money to be repaid was held in trust, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, a notice that such moneys remain unclaimed and that, after a date specified in the notice, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date on which the notice was first mailed to the Holders of the Securities as to which the money to be repaid was held in trust, any unclaimed balance of such moneys then remaining will be paid to the Company free of the trust formerly impressed upon it.
          SECTION 10.04 The Company and each Guarantor will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a written statement signed by the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company or such Guarantor, as applicable, stating that:
Statement as to Compliance.
          (1) a review of the activities of the Company or such Guarantor, as applicable, during such year and of performance under this Indenture and under the terms of the Securities has been made under his supervision; and
          (2) to the best of his knowledge, based on such review, the Company or such Guarantor, as applicable, has fulfilled all its obligations under this Indenture and has complied with all conditions and covenants on its part contained in this Indenture through such year, or, if there has been a default in the fulfillment of any such obligation,
 
covenant or condition, specifying each such default known to him and the nature and status thereof.
          For the purpose of this Section 10.04, default and compliance shall be determined without regard to any grace period or requirement of notice provided pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
          SECTION 10.05 Subject to Article VIII, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its legal existence.
Legal Existence.
          SECTION 10.06 Neither the Company nor any Material Subsidiary of the Company shall incur, create, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable for any Indebtedness For Borrowed Money that is secured by a lien on any asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it unless the Company makes or causes to be made effective provisions whereby the Securities issued under this Indenture will be secured by such lien equally and ratably with (or prior to) all other indebtedness thereby secured so long as any such indebtedness shall be secured. The foregoing restriction does not apply to the following:
Limitation on Liens.
     (i) liens existing as of the date of this Indenture;
     (ii) liens issued, created or assumed by Subsidiaries of the Company to secure indebtedness of such Subsidiaries to the Company or to one or more other Subsidiaries of the Company;
     (iii) liens affecting property of a Person existing at the time it becomes a Subsidiary of the Company or at the time it merges into or consolidates with the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the properties of such Person to the Company or its Subsidiaries;
     (iv) liens on property or assets existing at the time of the acquisition thereof or incurred to secure payment of all or a part of the purchase price thereof or to secure indebtedness incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 18 months after the acquisition thereof for the purpose of financing all or part of the purchase price thereof, in a principal amount not exceeding 110% of the purchase price;
     (v) liens on any property to secure all or part of the cost of improvements or construction thereon or indebtedness incurred to provide funds for such purpose in a principal amount not exceeding 110% of the cost of such improvements or construction;
     (vi) liens on shares of stock, indebtedness or other securities of a Person that is not a Subsidiary of the Company;
     (vii) liens in respect of capital leases entered into after the date of this Indenture provided that such liens extend only to the property or assets that are the subject of such capital leases;
 
     (viii) liens resulting from progress payments or partial payments under United States government contracts or subcontracts;
     (ix) any extensions, renewal or replacement of any lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) through (viii) inclusive, or of any indebtedness secured thereby; provided, however, that the principal amount of indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of indebtedness so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, or at the time the lien was issued, created or assumed or otherwise permitted and that such extension, renewal or replacement lien shall be limited to all or part of substantially the same property which secured the lien extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property);
     (x) liens granted in favor of the Trustee in accordance with Section 6.07 hereof; and
     (xi) other liens arising in connection with indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount for the Company and its Subsidiaries not exceeding at the time such lien is issued, created or assumed the greater of (A) 15% of the Consolidated Net Worth of the Company and (B) $500 million.
          SECTION 10.07 The Company may omit in respect of any series of Securities, in any particular instance, to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in Sections 10.05 or 10.06 or set forth in a Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto with respect to the Securities of such series, unless otherwise specified in such Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto, if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such waiver (voting as one class) shall, by Act of such Securityholders delivered to the Company and the Trustee (in accordance with Section 1.04 hereof), either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect. Nothing in this Section 10.07 shall permit the waiver of compliance with any covenant or condition set forth in such Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto which, if in the form of an indenture supplemental hereto, would not be permitted by Section 9.02 without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby.
Waiver of Certain Covenants.
          SECTION 11.01 The Company may reserve the right to redeem and pay before Stated Maturity all or any part of the Securities of any series, either by optional redemption, sinking or purchase fund or analogous obligation or otherwise, by provision therefor in the form of Security for such series established and approved pursuant to Section 2.02 and on such terms as are specified in such form or in the Board Resolution or
Applicability of Article.
 
indenture supplemental hereto with respect to Securities of such series as provided in Section 3.01. Redemption of Securities of any series shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and, to the extent that this Article does not conflict with such terms, the succeeding Sections of this Article. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Indenture, except in the case of redemption pursuant to a sinking fund, the Trustee shall not make any payment in connection with the redemption of Securities until the close of business on the Redemption Date.
          SECTION 11.02 The election of the Company to redeem any Securities redeemable at the election of the Company shall be evidenced by, or pursuant to authority granted by, a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all of the Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities of such series and the Tranche (as defined in Section 11.03) to be redeemed.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
          In the case of any redemption of Securities (i) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, or (ii) pursuant to an election of the Company which is subject to a condition specified in the terms of such Securities, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition.
          SECTION 11.03 If less than all the Securities of like tenor and terms of any series (a "") are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such Tranche not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may include provision for the selection for redemption of portions of the principal of Securities of such Tranche of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series. Unless otherwise provided in the terms of a particular series of Securities, the portions of the principal of Securities so selected for partial redemption shall be equal to the minimum authorized denomination of the Securities of such series, or an integral multiple thereof, and the principal amount which remains outstanding shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series. If less than all the Securities of unlike tenor and terms of a series are to be redeemed, the particular Tranche of Securities to be redeemed shall be selected by the Company.
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed.
Tranche
          If any convertible Security selected for partial redemption is converted in part before the termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of such Security shall be deemed (so far as may be) to be the portion selected for redemption.
          Upon any redemption of fewer than all the Securities of a series, the Company and the Trustee may treat as Outstanding any Securities surrendered for conversion during the period of fifteen days next preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption, and need not treat as Outstanding any Security authenticated and delivered during such period in exchange for the unconverted portion of any Security converted in part during such period.
 
          The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Security selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
          Securities shall be excluded from eligibility for selection for redemption if they are identified by registration and certificate number in a written statement signed by an authorized officer of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at least 45 days prior to the Redemption Date (unless a shorter period shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee) as being owned of record and beneficially by, and not pledged or hypothecated by either, (a) the Company or (b) an entity specifically identified in such written statement as being an Affiliate of the Company.
          For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
          SECTION 11.04 Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 15 (unless otherwise provided in the Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto establishing the relevant series) nor more than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
Notice of Redemption.
          All notices of redemption shall state:
          (1) the Redemption Date;
          (2) the Redemption Price;
          (3) if less than all Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the respective principal amounts) of the Securities to be redeemed;
          (4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security, and that interest, if any, thereon shall cease to accrue from and after said date;
          (5) the place where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price, which shall be the office or agency of the Company in the Place of Payment;
          (6) that the redemption is on account of a sinking or purchase fund, or other analogous obligation, if that be the case;
          (7) if such Securities are convertible into Common Stock or other securities, the Conversion Price or other conversion price and the date on which the right to convert such Securities into Common Stock or other securities will terminate; and
          (8) if applicable, that the redemption may be rescinded by the Company, at its sole option, pursuant to Section 11.09 of this Indenture upon the occurrence of a Redemption Rescission Event.
 
          Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company; provided that if the Trustee is asked to give such notice it shall be given at least five (5) Business Days prior notice.
          SECTION 11.05 On or prior to any Redemption Date and subject to Section 11.09, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.03) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date. If any Security to be redeemed is converted into Common Stock or other securities, any money so deposited with the Trustee or a Paying Agent shall be paid to the Company upon Company Request or, if then so segregated and held in trust by the Company, shall be discharged from such trust.
Deposit of Redemption Price.
          SECTION 11.06 Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, subject to Section 11.09, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price) such Securities shall cease to bear interest and any rights to convert such Securities shall terminate. Upon surrender of such Securities for redemption in accordance with the notice and subject to Section 11.09, such Securities shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price. Unless otherwise provided with respect to such Securities pursuant to Section 3.01, installments of interest the Stated Maturity of which is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities registered as such on the relevant Regular Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 3.07.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
          If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate borne by the Security, or as otherwise provided in such Security.
          SECTION 11.07 Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at the office or agency of the Company in the Place of Payment with respect to that series (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and Stated Maturity and of like tenor and terms, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Securities Redeemed in Part.
          SECTION 11.08 Unless the form or terms of any series of Securities shall provide otherwise, in lieu of making all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to such series of Securities in cash, the Company may at its option (1) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities of such series theretofore acquired by the Company or converted by the Holder thereof into Common Stock or other securities, or (2) receive credit for any Securities of such series (not previously so credited) acquired by the Company (including by way of optional redemption (pursuant to the sinking fund or otherwise but not by way of mandatory sinking fund redemption) or converted by the Holder thereof into Common Stock or other securities and theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, and if it does so then (i) Securities so delivered or
Provisions with Respect to Any Sinking Funds.
 
credited shall be credited at the applicable sinking fund Redemption Price with respect to Securities of such series, and (ii) on or before the 60th day next preceding each sinking fund Redemption Date with respect to such series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee (A) an Officers' Certificate specifying the portions of such sinking fund payment to be satisfied by payment of cash and by delivery or credit of Securities of such series acquired by the Company or converted by the Holder thereof, and (B) such Securities, to the extent not previously surrendered. Such Officers' Certificate shall also state the basis for such credit and that the Securities for which the Company elects to receive credit have not been previously so credited and were not acquired by the Company through operation of the mandatory sinking fund, if any, provided with respect to such Securities and shall also state that no Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series has occurred and is continuing. All Securities so delivered to the Trustee shall be canceled by the Trustee and no Securities shall be authenticated in lieu thereof.
          If the sinking fund payment or payments (mandatory or optional) with respect to any series of Securities made in cash plus any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payments with respect to Securities of such series made in cash shall exceed $50,000 (or a lesser sum if the Company shall so request), unless otherwise provided by the terms of such series of Securities, that cash shall be applied by the Trustee on the sinking fund Redemption Date with respect to Securities of such series next following the date of such payment to the redemption of Securities of such series at the applicable sinking fund Redemption Price with respect to Securities of such series, together with accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption, with the effect provided in Section 11.06. The Trustee shall select, in the manner provided in Section 11.03, for redemption on such sinking fund Redemption Date a sufficient principal amount of Securities of such series to utilize that cash and shall thereupon cause notice of redemption of the Securities of such series for the sinking fund to be given in the manner provided in Section 11.04 (and with the effect provided in Section 11.06) for the redemption of Securities in part at the option of the Company. Any sinking fund moneys not so applied or allocated by the Trustee to the redemption of Securities of such series shall be added to the next cash sinking fund payment with respect to Securities of such series received by the Trustee and, together with such payment, shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.08. Any and all sinking fund moneys with respect to Securities of any series held by the Trustee at the Maturity of Securities of such series, and not held for the payment or redemption of particular Securities of such series, shall be applied by the Trustee, together with other moneys, if necessary, to be deposited sufficient for the purpose, to the payment of the principal of the Securities of such series at Maturity.
          On or before each sinking fund Redemption Date provided with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall pay to the Trustee in cash a sum equal to all accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption on Securities to be redeemed on such sinking fund Redemption Date pursuant to this Section 11.08.
          SECTION 11.09 In the event that this Section 11.09 is specified to be applicable to a series of Securities pursuant to Section 3.01 and a Redemption Rescission Event shall occur following any day on which a notice of redemption shall have been given pursuant to Section 11.04 hereof but at or prior to the time and date fixed for redemption as set forth in such notice of redemption, the Company may, at its sole option, at any time prior to the earlier of (i) the close of business on that day which is two Trading Days following such Redemption Rescission Event and (ii) the time and date fixed for redemption as set forth in such notice, rescind the redemption to which such notice of redemption shall have related by making a public announcement of such rescission (the date on which such public
Rescission of Redemption.
 
announcement shall have been made being hereinafter referred to as the ""). The Company shall be deemed to have made such announcement if it shall issue a release to the Dow Jones New Service, Reuters Information Services or any successor news wire service. From and after the making of such announcement, the Company shall have no obligation to redeem Securities called for redemption pursuant to such notice of redemption or to pay the Redemption Price therefor and all rights of Holders of Securities shall be restored as if such notice of redemption had not been given. As promptly as practicable following the making of such announcement, the Company shall telephonically notify the Trustee and the Paying Agent of such rescission. The Company shall give notice of any such rescission by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed as promptly as practicable but in no event later than the close of business on that day which is five Trading Days following the Rescission Date to each Holder of Securities at the close of business on the Rescission Date, to any other Person that was a Holder of Securities and that shall have surrendered Securities for conversion following the giving of notice of the subsequently rescinded redemption and to the Trustee and the Paying Agent. Each notice of rescission shall (w) state that the redemption described in the notice of redemption has been rescinded, (x) state that any Converting Holder shall be entitled to rescind the conversion of Securities surrendered for conversion following the day on which notice of redemption was given but on or prior to the date of the mailing of the Company's notice of rescission, (y) be accompanied by a form prescribed by the Company to be used by any Converting Holder rescinding the conversion of Securities so surrendered for conversion (and instructions for the completion and delivery of such form, including instructions with respect to any payment that may be required to accompany such delivery) and (z) state that such form must be properly completed and received by the Company no later than the close of business on a date that shall be 15 Trading Days following the date of the mailing of such notice of rescission.
Rescission Date
          SECTION 12.01 In the event that this Article XII is specified to be applicable to a series of Securities pursuant to Section 3.01, the Holder of a Security of such series shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert, in accordance with the terms of such series of Securities and this Article XII, all or any part (in a denomination of, unless otherwise specified in a Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto with respect to Securities of such series, $1,000 in principal amount or any integral multiple thereof) of such Security into shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities specified in such Board Resolution or any indenture supplement hereto at any time or, as to any Securities called for redemption, at any time prior to the time and date fixed for such redemption (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price, in which case such right shall not terminate at such time and date).
Conversion Privilege.
          SECTION 12.02 (a) Each Security to which this Article is applicable shall be convertible at the office of the Conversion Agent, and at such other place or places, if any, specified in a Board Resolution with respect to the Securities of such series, into fully paid and nonassessable shares (calculated to the nearest 1/100th of a share) of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities. The Securities will be converted into shares of Common Stock or such other Marketable Securities at the Conversion Price therefor. No payment or adjustment shall
Conversion Procedure; Rescission of Conversion; Conversion Price; Fractional Shares.
 
be made in respect of dividends on the Common Stock or such other Marketable Securities, or accrued interest on a converted Security except as described in Section 12.09. The Company may, but shall not be required, in connection with any conversion of Securities, to issue a fraction of a share of Common Stock or of such other Marketable Security, and, if the Company shall determine not to issue any such fraction, the Company shall, subject to Section 12.03(4), make a cash payment (calculated to the nearest cent) equal to such fraction multiplied by the Closing Price of the Common Stock or such other Marketable Security on the last Trading Day prior to the date of conversion.
          (b) Before any Holder of a Security shall be entitled to convert the same into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities, such Holder shall surrender such Security duly endorsed to the Company or in blank, at the office of the Conversion Agent or at such other place or places, if any, specified in a Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto with respect to the Securities of such series, and shall give written notice to the Company at said office or place that he elects to convert the same and shall state in writing therein the principal amount of Securities to be converted and the name or names (with addresses) in which he wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock or for such other Marketable Securities to be issued; provided, however, that no Security or portion thereof shall be accepted for conversion unless the principal amount of such Security or such portion, when added to the principal amount of all other Securities or portions thereof then being surrendered by the Holder thereof for conversion, exceeds the then effective Conversion Price with respect thereto. If more than one Security shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock or such other Marketable Securities which shall be deliverable upon conversion shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted thereby) so surrendered. Subject to the next succeeding sentence, the Company will, as soon as practicable thereafter, issue and deliver at said office or place to such Holder of a Security, or to his nominee or nominees, certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Security to which he shall be entitled as aforesaid, together, subject to the last sentence of paragraph (a) above, with cash in lieu of any fraction of a share to which he would otherwise be entitled. The Company shall not be required to deliver certificates for shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities while the stock transfer books for such stock or the transfer books for such Marketable Securities, as the case may be, or the Security Register are duly closed for any purpose, but certificates for shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities shall be issued and delivered as soon as practicable after the opening of such books or Security Register. A Security shall be deemed to have been converted as of the close of business on the date of the surrender of such Security for conversion as provided above, and the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record Holder or Holders of such Common Stock or other Marketable Securities as of the close of business on such date. In case any Security shall be surrendered for partial conversion, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to or upon the written order of the Holder of the Securities so surrendered, without charge to such Holder (subject to the provisions of Section 12.08), a new Security or Securities in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Security.
          (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the event the Company shall have rescinded a redemption of Securities pursuant to Section 11.09 hereof, any Holder of Securities that shall have surrendered Securities for conversion following the day on which notice of the subsequently rescinded redemption shall have been given but prior to the later of (a) the close of business on the Trading Day next succeeding the date on which public announcement of the rescission of such redemption shall have been made and (b) the date of the
 
mailing of the notice of rescission required by Section 11.09 hereof (a "") may rescind the conversion of such Securities surrendered for conversion by (i) properly completing a form prescribed by the Company and mailed to Holders of Securities (including Converting Holders) with the Company's notice of rescission, which form shall provide for the certification by any Converting Holder rescinding a conversion on behalf of any beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of Securities that the beneficial ownership (within the meaning of such Rule) of such Securities shall not have changed from the date on which such Securities were surrendered for conversion to the date of such certification and (ii) delivering such form to the Company no later than the close of business on that date which is fifteen Trading Days following the date of the mailing of the Company's notice of rescission. The delivery of such form by a Converting Holder shall be accompanied by (x) any certificates representing shares of Common Stock or other securities issued to such Converting Holder upon a conversion of Securities that shall be rescinded by the proper delivery of such form (the ""), (y) any securities, evidences of indebtedness or assets (other than cash) distributed by the Company to such Converting Holder by reason of such Converting Holder being a record holder of Surrendered Securities and (z) payment in New York Clearing House funds or other funds acceptable to the Company of an amount equal to the sum of (I) any cash such Converting Holder may have received in lieu of the issuance of fractional Surrendered Securities and (II) any cash paid or payable by the Company to such Converting Holder by reason of such Converting Holder being a record holder of Surrendered Securities. Upon receipt by the Company of any such form properly completed by a Converting Holder and any certificates, securities, evidences of indebtedness, assets or cash payments required to be returned by such Converting Holder to the Company as set forth above, the Company shall instruct the transfer agent or agents for shares of Common Stock or other securities to cancel any certificates representing Surrendered Securities (which Surrendered Securities shall be deposited in the treasury of the Company) and shall instruct the Registrar to reissue certificates representing Securities to such Converting Holder (which Securities shall be deemed to have been outstanding at all times during the period following their surrender for conversion). The Company shall, as promptly as practicable, and in no event more than five Trading Days following the receipt of any such properly completed form and any such certificates, securities, evidences of indebtedness, assets or cash payments required to be so returned, pay to the Holder of Securities surrendered to the Company pursuant to a rescinded conversion or as otherwise directed by such Holder any interest paid or other payment made to Holders of Securities during the period from the time such Securities shall have been surrendered for conversion to the rescission of such conversion. All questions as to the validity, form, eligibility (including time of receipt) and acceptance of any form submitted to the Company to rescind the conversion of Securities, including questions as to the proper completion or execution of any such form or any certification contained therein, shall be resolved by the Company, whose determination shall be final and binding.
Converting Holder
Surrendered Securities
          SECTION 12.03 The Conversion Price with respect to any Security which is convertible into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities shall be adjusted from time to time as follows:
Adjustment of Conversion Price for Common Stock or Marketable Securities.
          (1) In case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of such Securities are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend in shares of its Common Stock or other Marketable Securities, (ii) combine its outstanding shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities into a smaller number of shares or securities, (iii) subdivide its outstanding shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities or (iv) issue by reclassification of its shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities any shares of stock or other Marketable Securities of the Company, then the Conversion Price in
 
effect immediately before such action shall be adjusted so that the Holders of such Securities, upon conversion thereof into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities immediately following such event, shall be entitled to receive the kind and amount of  shares of capital stock of the Company or other Marketable Securities which they would have owned or been entitled to receive upon or by reason of such event if such Securities had been converted immediately before the record date (or, if no record date, the effective date) for such event. An adjustment made pursuant to this Section 12.03(1) shall become effective retroactively immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution and shall become effective retroactively immediately after the effective date in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification. For the purposes of this Section 12.03(1), each Holder of Securities shall be deemed to have failed to exercise any right to elect the kind or amount of securities receivable upon the payment of any such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification (provided that if the kind or amount of securities receivable upon such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification is not the same for each nonelecting share, then the kind and amount of securities or other property receivable upon such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification for each nonelecting share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the nonelecting shares).
          (2) In case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of such Securities are outstanding, issue rights or warrants to all holders of shares of its Common Stock or other Marketable Securities entitling them (for a period expiring within 45 days after the record date for such issuance) to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities (or securities convertible into shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities) at a price per share less than the Current Market Price of the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities at such record date (treating the price per share of the securities convertible into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities as equal to (x) the sum of (i) the price for a unit of the security convertible into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities plus (ii) any additional consideration initially payable upon the conversion of such security into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities divided by (y) the number of shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities initially underlying such convertible security), the Conversion Price with respect to such Securities shall be adjusted so that it shall equal the price determined by dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the date of issuance of such rights or warrants by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights or warrants plus the number of additional shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities offered for subscription or purchase (or into which the convertible securities so offered are initially convertible), and the denominator of which shall be the number of  shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights or warrants plus the number of shares or securities which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares or securities so offered for subscription or purchase (or the aggregate purchase price of the convertible securities so offered plus the aggregate amount of any additional consideration initially payable upon conversion of such Securities into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities) would purchase at such Current Market Price of the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities. Such adjustment shall become effective retroactively immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants.
 
          (3) In case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of such Securities are outstanding, distribute to all holders of shares of its Common Stock or other Marketable Securities (including any such distribution made in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the continuing corporation and the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities are not changed or exchanged) cash, evidences of its indebtedness, securities or assets (excluding (i) regular periodic cash dividends in amounts, if any, determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, (ii) in dividends payable in shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities for which adjustment is made under Section 12.03(1) or (iii) rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Company (excluding those referred to in Section 12.03(2)), then in each such case the Conversion Price with respect to such Securities shall be adjusted so that it shall equal the price determined by dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the date of such distribution by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Current Market Price of the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities on the record date referred to below, and the denominator of which shall be such Current Market Price of the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities less the then fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be conclusive) of the portion of the cash or assets or evidences of indebtedness or securities so distributed or of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to one share of Common Stock or one other Marketable Security (provided that such denominator shall never be less than 1.0); provided, however, that no adjustment shall be made with respect to any distribution of rights to purchase securities of the Company if a Holder of Securities would otherwise be entitled to receive such rights upon conversion at any time of such Securities into Common Stock or other Marketable Securities unless such rights are subsequently redeemed by the Company, in which case such redemption shall be treated for purposes of this Section as a dividend on the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities. Such adjustment shall become effective retroactively immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders or holders of Marketable Securities entitled to receive such distribution; and in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Conversion Price shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Price which would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed.
          (4) The Company shall be entitled to make such additional adjustments in the Conversion Price, in addition to those required by subsections 12.03(1), 12.03(2) and 12.03(3), as shall be necessary in order that any dividend or distribution of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities, any subdivision, reclassification or combination of shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities or any issuance of rights or warrants referred to above shall not be taxable to the holders of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities for United States Federal income tax purposes.
          (5) In any case in which this Section 12.03 shall require that any adjustment be made effective as of or retroactively immediately following a record date, the Company may elect to defer (but only for five (5) Trading Days following the filing of the statement referred to in Section 12.05) issuing to the Holder of any Securities converted after such record date the shares of Common Stock and other capital stock of the Company or other Marketable Securities issuable upon such conversion over and above the shares of Common Stock and other capital stock of the Company or other Marketable Securities issuable upon such conversion on the basis of the Conversion Price prior to adjustment; provided, however, that the Company shall deliver to such Holder a
 
due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing such Holder's right to receive such additional shares upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.
          (6) All calculations under this Section 12.03 shall be made to the nearest cent or one-hundredth of a share or security, with one-half cent and .005 of a share, respectively, being rounded upward. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 12.03, the Company shall not be required to make any adjustment of the Conversion Price unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of such price. Any lesser adjustment shall be carried forward and shall be made at the time of and together with the next subsequent adjustment which, together with any adjustment or adjustments so carried forward, shall amount to an increase or decrease of at least 1% in such price. Any adjustments under this Section 12.03 shall be made successively whenever an event requiring such an adjustment occurs.
          (7) In the event that at any time, as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to this Section 12.03, the Holder of any Security thereafter surrendered for conversion shall become entitled to receive any shares of stock of or other Marketable Securities of the Company other than shares of Common Stock or Marketable Securities into which the Securities originally were convertible, the Conversion Price of such other shares or Marketable Securities so receivable upon conversion of any such Security shall be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to Common Stock and Marketable Securities contained in subparagraphs (1) through (6) of this Section 12.03, and the provision of Sections 12.01, 12.02 and 12.04 through 12.09 with respect to the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities shall apply on like or similar terms to any such other shares or Marketable Securities and the determination of the Board of Directors as to any such adjustment shall be conclusive.
          (8) No adjustment shall be made pursuant to this Section (i) if the effect thereof would be to reduce the Conversion Price below the par value (if any) of the Common Stock or other Marketable Security, if any, or (ii) subject to Section 12.03(5) hereof, with respect to any Security that is converted prior to the time such adjustment otherwise would be made.
          SECTION 12.04 In case of either (a) any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party, other than a merger or consolidation in which the Company is the surviving or continuing corporation and which does not result in a reclassification of, or change (other than a change in par value or from par value to no par value or from no par value to par value, as a result of a subdivision or combination) in, outstanding shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities or (b) any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company to another Person, then each Security then Outstanding shall be convertible from and after such merger, consolidation, sale or conveyance of property and assets into the kind and amount of shares of stock or other securities and property (including cash) receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities into which such Securities would have been converted immediately prior to such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, subject to adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article XII (and assuming such holder of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities failed to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property (including cash) receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance (provided that,
Consolidation or Merger of the Company.
 
if the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property (including cash) receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance is not the same for each nonelecting share, then the kind and amount of securities, cash or other property (including cash) receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance for each nonelecting share, shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the nonelecting shares or securities)). The Company shall not enter into any of the transactions referred to in clause (a) or (b) of the preceding sentence unless effective provision shall be made so as to give effect to the provisions set forth in this Section 12.04. The provisions of this Section 12.04 shall apply similarly to successive consolidations, mergers, sales or conveyances.
          SECTION 12.05 Whenever an adjustment in the Conversion Price with respect to a series of Securities is required:
Notice of Adjustment.
          (1) the Company shall forthwith place on file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent for such Securities a certificate of the Treasurer of the Company, stating the adjusted Conversion Price determined as provided herein and setting forth in reasonable detail such facts as shall be necessary to show the reason for and the manner of computing such adjustment, such certificate to be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct; and
          (2) a notice stating that the Conversion Price has been adjusted and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price shall forthwith be mailed, first class postage prepaid, by the Company to the Holders of record of such Outstanding Securities.
          SECTION 12.06 In case:
Notice in Certain Events.
          (1) of a consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and for which approval of any stockholders of the Company is required, or of the sale or conveyance to another person or entity or group of persons or entities acting in concert as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company; or
          (2) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company; or
          (3) of any action triggering an adjustment of the Conversion Price pursuant to this Article XII;
then, in each case, the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and the Agent for the applicable Securities, and shall cause to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to the Holders of record of applicable Securities, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of any distribution or grant of rights or warrants triggering an adjustment to the Conversion Price pursuant to this Article XII, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of record of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities entitled to such distribution, rights or warrants are to be determined, or (y) the date on which any reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, dissolution, liquidation or winding up triggering an adjustment to the Conversion Price pursuant to this Article XII is expected to become effective, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock or other Marketable Securities for securities or other
 
property deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
          Failure to give such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the legality or validity of the proceedings described in clause (1), (2) or (3) of this Section.
          SECTION 12.07 (a) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the Securities, such number of its duly authorized  shares of Common Stock or number or principal amount of other Marketable Securities as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all applicable outstanding Securities into such Common Stock or other Marketable Securities at any time (assuming that, at the time of the computation of such number of shares or securities, all such Securities would be held by a single Holder); provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall preclude the Company from satisfying its obligations in respect of the conversion of the Securities by delivery of purchased shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities which are held in the treasury of the Company. The Company shall from time to time, in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the authorized amount of the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities to be increased if the aggregate of the authorized amount of the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities remaining unissued and the issued shares of such Common Stock or other Marketable Securities in its treasury (other than any such shares reserved for issuance in any other connection) shall not be sufficient to permit the conversion of all Securities.
Company to Reserve Stock or other Marketable Securities; Registration; Listing.
          (b) If any shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities which would be issuable upon conversion of Securities hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority before such shares or securities may be issued upon such conversion, the Company will in good faith and as expeditiously as possible endeavor to cause such shares or securities to be duly registered or approved, as the case may be. The Company will endeavor to list the shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities required to be delivered upon conversion of the Securities prior to such delivery upon the principal national securities exchange upon which the outstanding Common Stock or other Marketable Securities is listed at the time of such delivery.
          SECTION 12.08 The Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes that may be payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities on conversion of Securities pursuant hereto. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities or the portion, if any, of the Securities which are not so converted in a name other than that in which the Securities so converted were registered, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue has paid to the Company the amount of such tax or has established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
Taxes on Conversion.
          SECTION 12.09 If any Securities are surrendered for conversion subsequent to the record date preceding an Interest Payment Date but on or prior to such Interest Payment Date (except Securities called for redemption on a Redemption Date between such record date and Interest Payment Date), the Holder of such Securities at the close of business on such record date shall be entitled to receive the interest
Conversion After Record Date.
 
payable on such securities on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion thereof. Securities surrendered for conversion during the period from the close of business on any record date next preceding any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such Interest Payment Date shall (except in the case of Securities which have been called for redemption on a Redemption Date within such period) be accompanied by payment in New York Clearing House funds or other funds acceptable to the Company of an amount equal to the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date on the Securities being surrendered for conversion. Except as provided in this Section 12.09, no adjustments in respect of payments of interest on Securities surrendered for conversion or any dividends or distributions or interest on the Common Stock or other Marketable Securities issued upon conversion shall be made upon the conversion of any Securities.
          SECTION 12.10 Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment reducing the applicable Conversion Price below the then par value (if any) of the shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities deliverable upon conversion of the Securities, the Company will take any corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock or other Marketable Securities at such adjusted Conversion Price.
Corporate Action Regarding Par Value of Common Stock.
          SECTION 12.11 Any determination that the Company or the Board of Directors must make pursuant to this Article is conclusive.
Company Determination Final.
          SECTION 12.12 The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article should be made, how it should be made or what it should be. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Securities. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article. Each Conversion Agent other than the Company shall have the same protection under this Section as the Trustee.
Trustee's Disclaimer.
          SECTION 13.01 (a) Each Guarantor, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, will fully, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee, to each Holder of Securities (including each Holder of Securities issued under the Indenture after the date of this Indenture) and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns (i) the full and punctual payment of principal of and interest on the Securities when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, and all other monetary obligations of the Company under this Indenture (including obligations to the Trustee) and the Securities and (ii) the full and punctual performance within applicable grace periods of all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture and the Securities.
Guarantees.
          (b) Each of the Guarantors further agrees that its obligations hereunder shall be unconditional irrespective of the absence or existence of any action to enforce the same, the recovery of any judgment against the Company or any other Guarantor (except to the extent such judgment is paid) or any waiver or amendment of the provisions of this Indenture or the Securities to the extent that any such action or any similar action would otherwise constitute a
 
legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor (except that each such waiver or amendment shall be effective in accordance with its terms).
          (c) Each of the Guarantors further agrees that each Guarantee constitutes a guarantee of payment, performance and compliance and not merely of collection.
          (d) Each of the Guarantors further agrees to waive presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to the Company or any other Person, and also waives diligence, notice of acceptance of its Guarantee, presentment, demand for payment, notice of protest for nonpayment, the filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company or any other Person and any right to require a proceeding first against the Company or any other Person. The obligations of the Guarantors shall not be affected by any failure or policy on the part of the Trustee to exercise any right or remedy under this Indenture or the Securities of any series.
          (e) The obligation of each Guarantor to make any payment hereunder may be satisfied by causing the Company or any other Person to make such payment. If any Holder of any Security or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company or any Guarantor, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to any of the Company or any Guarantor, any amount paid by any of them to the Trustee or such Holder, the Guarantee of such Guarantor, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
          (f) Each Guarantor also agrees to pay any and all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by the Trustee or any Holder of Securities in enforcing any of their respective rights under its Guarantees.
          (g) Any term or provision of this Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) TWE will be automatically released from its obligations under its Guarantee upon receipt by the Trustee of a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company certifying that TWE has no outstanding Indebtedness For Borrowed Money as of the date of such certificate, other than any other guarantee of Indebtedness For Borrowed Money that will be released concurrently with the release of such Guarantee, and (ii) TW NY will be automatically released from its obligations under its Guarantee upon receipt by the Trustee of a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company certifying that (x) TW NY has no outstanding Indebtedness For Borrowed Money as of the date of such certificate, other than any other guarantee of Indebtedness For Borrowed Money that will be released concurrently with the release of such Guarantee, and (y) TW NY is a wholly-owned direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company.
          (h) Any term or provision of this Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum aggregate amount of each of the Guarantees shall not exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the relevant Guarantor without rendering the relevant Guarantee under this Indenture voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
Signature Page: Indenture

 
Exhibit 4.2
Execution Copy
 
 
               THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE between TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the "Company"), TW NY CABLE HOLDING INC., a Delaware corporation ("TW NY"), TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE," and together with TW NY, the "Guarantors"), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (hereinafter called the "Trustee"), is made and entered into as of April 9, 2007.
               WHEREAS, the Company and the Guarantors have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007 (the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance from time to time of its debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called "Securities") in one or more fully registered series;
               WHEREAS, Sections 3.01 and 9.01(5) of the Indenture provide that the Company and the Trustee may from time to time enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto to establish the form or terms of Securities of a new series issued pursuant to the Indenture;
               WHEREAS, the Company desires to establish the terms of a series of securities entitled the 5.40% Notes Due 2012 (the "2012 Notes"), a series of securities entitled the 5.85% Notes Due 2017 (the "2017 Notes") and a series of securities entitled the 6.55% Debentures Due 2037 (the "2037 Debentures" and, together with the 2012 Notes and the 2017 Notes, the "Notes" and each a "series" of Notes), the issuance of each of which was authorized by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company, dated March 22, 2007, and a resolution of the Offering Committee of the Company, dated April 4, 2007; and
               WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder and duly issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company, and to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with the terms of the Notes and this First Supplemental Indenture.
     NOW THEREFORE:
               In consideration of the premises provided for herein, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes as follows:
 
               Section 101
Definitions.
               For all purposes of the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture relating to each series of Securities created hereby, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article. Each capitalized term that is used in this First Supplemental Indenture but not defined herein shall have the meaning specified in the Indenture. The terms "hereof," "herein," "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this First Supplemental Indenture.
               "" has the meaning specified in the recitals.
2012 Notes
               "has the meaning specified in the recitals.
2017 Notes"
               " has the meaning specified in the recitals.
"2037 Debentures
               "" means, with respect to each series of Notes, a Global Security substantially in the form of , , or hereto, as applicable, bearing the Global Security Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depository or its nominee, each of which shall be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding Principal Amount of the applicable series of Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
144A Global Note
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
               "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
               "" has the meaning specified in Section 201(c).
Agent Members
               "" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security, the rules and procedures of the Depository that are applicable to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
               "" means, with respect to each series of Notes, a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof, substantially in the form attached hereto as , , or hereto, as applicable, and such Notes shall not bear the Global Security Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Securities" attached thereto.
Certificated Security
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
               "" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
               "" has the meaning specified in Section 201(a).
Depository
               "" has the meaning specified in Section 201(a).
DTC
               "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute.
Exchange Act
               "" means, with respect to each series of Notes, any securities of the Company containing terms identical in all material respects to such Notes, except that the Exchange Notes will not bear the Private Placement Legend, and will be issued and exchanged for the Notes of the same series pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture.
Exchange Notes
               "" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
               "" has the meanings specified in the recitals.
First Supplemental Indenture
               "" means, with respect to each series of Notes, individually and collectively, the Restricted Global Securities and the Unrestricted Global Securities, substantially in the form of , , or , hereto, as applicable.
Global Securities
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
               "" means the legend set forth in Section 202(f)(2), which is required to be placed on all Global Securities issued under this First Supplemental Indenture.
Global Security Legend
               "" has the meaning specified in the recitals.
Indenture
               "" of any Note means the date on which such Note was originally issued.
Issue Date
               "" means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Notes for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer.
Letter of Transmittal
               has the meaning specified in the recitals.
"Notes"
               "" shall be the agent specified in Section 201(e).
Paying Agent
               "" of any Note means the principal amount as set forth on the face of such Note.
Principal Amount
               "" means, with respect to each series of Notes, any securities of the Company containing terms identical in all material respects to such
Private Exchange Notes
 
Notes, except that the Private Exchange Notes will be issued and exchanged for the Notes of the same series pursuant to a Private Exchange in the Exchange Offer (each as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) and may be subject to restrictions on transfer and bear a legend to such effect.
               "" means the legend set forth in Section 202(f)(1) to be placed on all Notes issued under this First Supplemental Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
               "" has the meaning specified in Section 201(a).
QIB
               "" means (i) the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 9, 2007, among the Company, TW NY and TWE and ABN AMRO Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the initial purchasers listed on Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement dated April 4, 2007, as amended, supplemented or modified and (ii) any Registration Rights Agreement related to any additional 2012 Notes, 2017 Notes or 2037 Debentures issued pursuant to Section 203 hereof.
Registration Rights Agreement
               "" means a Registration Statement as defined and described in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Registration Statement
               "" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
               "" means, with respect to each series of Notes, a Global Security in the form of , , or hereto, as applicable, bearing the Global Security Legend and the Private Placement Legend, deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, each of which shall be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding Principal Amount of the applicable series of Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Regulation S Global Note
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
               "" means a Certificated Security, which shall bear a Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Certificated Security
               "" means a Global Security, which shall bear a Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Security
               "" means the "distribution compliance period" as defined in Regulation S.
Restricted Period
               "" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act or any successor to such Rule.
Rule 144
               "" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act or any successor to such Rule.
Rule 144A
 
               "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto.
SEC
               "" has the meaning specified in the preamble of this First Supplemental Indenture.
Securities
               "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor statute.
Securities Act
               "" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Securities in global form, or any successor thereto.
Securities Custodian
               "" means a written certification substantially in the form set forth in hereto.
Transfer Certificate
Exhibit D
               "" means a Certificated Security which does not bear a Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Certificated Security
               "" means, with respect to each series of Notes, a permanent Global Security substantially in the form of , , or hereto, as applicable, that bears the Global Security Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Securities" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, representing such series of Notes, and that does not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Security
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
               "" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
               Section 201 .
Designation of Notes and Title; Establishment of Form
               There shall be (i) a series of Securities designated the "5.40% Notes due 2012" of the Company, and the form thereof shall be substantially as set forth in hereto, (ii) a series of Securities designated the "5.85% Notes due 2017" of the Company, and the form thereof shall be substantially as set forth in hereto, and (iii) a series of Securities designated the "6.55% Debentures due 2037" of the Company, and the form thereof shall be substantially as set forth in hereto. Each such form of Note is incorporated into and shall be deemed a part of this First Supplemental Indenture, with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by the Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
 
herewith, be determined by the officers of the Company executing such Notes, as evidenced by their execution of the Notes.
                    (a) . Each of the 2012 Notes, the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Debentures are initially being offered and sold to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A (collectively, "QIBs" or individually a "QIB") in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act or in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Each series of Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Restricted Global Securities, in fully registered form without interest coupons, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of such Notes represented thereby with the Trustee, at its Corporate Trust Office, as Securities Custodian for the depository, The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") (such depository, or any successor thereto, being referred to as the "Depository"), and registered in the name of its nominee, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. Notes initially offered and sold to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A shall be issued in the form of one or more 144A Global Notes. Notes initially offered and sold in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act shall be issued in the form of one or more Regulation S Global Notes. Clearstream Banking, S.A. ("Clearstream Luxembourg") and Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System ("Euroclear") may hold beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Notes on behalf of their participants through their respective depositories. Beneficial interests in a Regulation S Global Note may also be held through organizations other than Clearstream Luxembourg and Euroclear that are participants in DTC. The aggregate Principal Amount of each Restricted Global Security may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Securities Custodian as hereinafter provided, subject in each case to compliance with the Applicable Procedures.
Restricted Global Securities
                    (b) . Prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, beneficial interests in a Regulation S Global Note maybe exchanged for beneficial interests in a 144A Global Note only if the transferor first delivers to the Trustee a Transfer Certificate to the effect that:
Regulation S Global Securities
                    (1) the transfer of the beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Note is being made in accordance with Rule 144A; and
                    (2) the beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Note is being transferred to a Person:
                    (A) whom the transferor reasonably believes to be a QIB within the meaning of Rule 144A purchasing for its own account or the account of a QIB in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A; and
                    (B) in accordance with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States.
 
                    (c) . Each Global Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate Principal Amount of Outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate Principal Amount of Outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions or purchases of such Notes. Any endorsement of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the Principal Amount of Outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Securities Custodian in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depository and the Securities Custodian.
Global Securities in General
               Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depository ("Agent Members") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have rights under this First Supplemental Indenture with respect to any Global Security held in the name of the Depository or any nominees thereof, or under the Global Security, and the Depository (including, for this purpose, their nominees) may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the sole owner and Holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall (A) prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depository or (B) impair, as between the Depository, its Agent Members and any other Person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Note.
                    (d) . Certificated Securities shall be issued only under the limited circumstances provided in Section 2.04 of the Indenture and of Section 202(a)(1) hereof.
Certificated Securities
                    (e) . The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Paying Agent and Registrar in connection with the Notes. At all times there shall be a Paying Agent in the City of New York.
Paying Agent and Registrar
               Section 202 .
Transfer and Exchange
                    (a) .
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities
                    (1) Certificated Securities shall be issued in exchange for interests in any Global Security only if (a) the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depository for such Global Security or if it at any time shall no longer be eligible or in good standing under the Exchange Act or other applicable statute or regulation and no successor depository is appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice or the Company becomes aware of such ineligibility, (b) there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect
 
to a series of Notes entitling the Holders of Notes of such Series to accelerate the maturity of such Notes in accordance with Section 5.02 of the Indenture or (c) at any time the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that the Notes of any series or portion thereof issued or issuable in the form of one or more Global Securities shall no longer be represented by such Global Securities. In any of the foregoing cases, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Certificated Securities of such series of Notes in exchange in whole or in part for such Global Security, authenticate and deliver Certificated Securities of such series of Notes, in definitive form in an aggregate Principal Amount equal to the Principal Amount of such Global Securities in exchange therefor. Only Restricted Certificated Securities shall be issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities, and only Unrestricted Certificated Securities shall be issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Unrestricted Global Securities. Certificated Securities issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Global Securities shall be registered in such names and shall be in such authorized denominations as the Depository, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. Upon the exchange of the entire principal amount of a Global Security for Certificated Securities of the same series of Notes, such Global Security shall be canceled by the Trustee or its agent. The Trustee shall deliver at its Corporate Trust Office such Certificated Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. Such exchange shall be effected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures. Nothing herein shall require the Trustee to communicate directly with beneficial owners, and the Trustee shall in connection with any transfers hereunder be entitled to rely on instructions received through the registered Holder.
                              In the event that Certificated Securities are issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Global Securities in accordance with the foregoing paragraph and, thereafter, the events or conditions specified in this Section 202(a)(1) which required such exchange shall have ceased to exist, the Company shall give notice to the Trustee and to the Holders stating that Holders may exchange Certificated Securities for interests in Global Securities of the same series of Notes by complying with the procedures set forth in this First Supplemental Indenture and briefly describing such procedures and the events or circumstances requiring that such notice be given.
                    (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture other than the provisions set forth in Section 202(a)(1) hereof, a Global Security may not be transferred, except as a whole by the Depository to a nominee of the Depository or by a nominee of the Depository to the Depository or another nominee of the Depository or by the Depository or any such nominee to successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository. Nothing in this Section 202(a)(2) shall prohibit or render ineffective any transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security effected in accordance with the other provisions of this Section 202.
 
                    (b) . The Notes are issuable only in registered form. Subject to this Section 202(b), a Holder may transfer a Note only by written application to the Trustee stating the name of the proposed transferee and otherwise complying with the terms of this First Supplemental Indenture. No such transfer shall be effected until, and such transferee shall succeed to the rights of a Holder only upon, final acceptance and registration of the transfer by the Trustee in the Security Register. Prior to the registration of any transfer by a Holder as provided herein, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company shall treat the person in whose name the Note is registered as the owner thereof for all purposes whether or not the Note shall be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Furthermore, any Holder of a Global Security shall, by acceptance of such Global Security, agree that transfers of beneficial interests in such Global Security may be effected only through a book entry system maintained by the Holder of such Global Security (or its agent) in compliance with its normal procedures and that ownership of a beneficial interest in the Note shall be required to be reflected in a book entry system. When Notes are presented to the Trustee with a request to register the transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same series of Notes of other authorized denominations (including an exchange of Notes for Exchange Notes of the same series of Notes or Private Exchange Notes of the same series of Notes), the Trustee shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transactions are met (including that such Notes are duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee and the Company, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing); provided that no exchanges of Notes for Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes of the same series of Notes shall occur until a Registration Statement shall have been declared effective by the SEC and that any Notes that are exchanged for Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes of the same series of Notes shall be canceled by the Trustee. To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Notes.
Transfer and Exchange
                    (c) . When Certificated Securities are presented by a Holder to the Trustee with a request:
Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Securities
                    (1) to register the transfer of the Certificated Securities to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of Certificated Securities of the same series of Notes only; or
                    (2) to exchange such Certificated Securities for an equal Principal Amount of Certificated Securities of the same series of Notes of other authorized denominations,
the Trustee shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested; provided, however, that the Certificated Securities presented or surrendered for register of transfer or exchange:
 
                    (1) shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer meeting the requirements of the fifth paragraph of Section 3.05 of the Indenture; and
                    (2) in the case of a Restricted Certificated Security, such request shall be accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable:
                    (A) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being delivered to the Trustee by a Holder for registration in the name of such Holder, without transfer, or such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate);
                    (B) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to (i) a person the Holder reasonably believes is a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, (ii) outside the United States in compliance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act or (iii) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
                    (C) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certification to that effect from the Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) and, if the Company or the Trustee so requests, a customary opinion of counsel, certificates and other information reasonably acceptable to the Company or the Trustee to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act.
                    (d) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities shall be effected through the Depository, in accordance with the provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Securities
                    (1) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Securities may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
 
Private Placement Legend; , , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in a Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser (as such term is defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) except in connection with a transfer pursuant to Section 201(b). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of the same series of Notes. Except as may be required by the Applicable Procedures, no written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Trustee to effect the transfers described in this Section 202(d)(1).
provided
however
                    (2) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 202(d)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Trustee either (i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depository in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depository to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security of the same series of Notes in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (ii) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase. Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 202(h) hereof, the requirements of this Section 202(d)(2) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Trustee of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities contained in the Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount at maturity of the relevant Global Securities.
Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities not subject to Section 
202(d)(1)
                    (3) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security of the same series of Notes if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 202(d)(2) above and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Security
                    (A) If the transferee is to take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a Transfer Certificate, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
 
                    (B) If the transferee is to take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in a Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a Transfer Certificate, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
                    (4) . Any person having a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security may upon request, subject to the Applicable Procedures, transfer such beneficial interest to a person who is required or permitted to take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Global Security of the same series of Notes. Upon receipt by the Trustee of written instructions or such other form of instructions as is customary for the Depository, from the Depository or its nominee on behalf of any person having a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security and the following additional information and documents in such form as is customary for the Depository from the Depository or its nominee on behalf of the person having such beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security (all of which may be submitted by facsimile or electronically):
Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Beneficial Interest in an Unrestricted Global Security
                    (A) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from the transferor (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
                    (B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act Rule 144, a certification to that effect from the transferor (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) and, if the Company or the Trustee so requests, a customary opinion of counsel, certificates and other information reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Trustee to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act,
the Trustee, as a Security Registrar and Securities Custodian, shall reduce or cause to be reduced the aggregate Principal Amount of the Restricted Global Security of such series of Notes by the appropriate Principal Amount and shall increase or cause to be increased the aggregate Principal Amount of the Unrestricted Global Security of the same series of Notes by a like Principal Amount. Such transfer shall otherwise be effected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures. If no Unrestricted Global Security is then outstanding, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of a Company Order (which the Company agrees to deliver promptly), authenticate and deliver an Unrestricted Global Security.
                    (e) . If Certificated Securities are presented by a Holder to the Trustee with a request:
Transfers of Certificated Securities for Beneficial Interest in Global Securities
 
                    (1) to register the transfer of such Certificated Securities to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Security of the same series of Notes, which request shall specify whether such Global Security will be a Restricted Global Security or an Unrestricted Global Security; or
                    (2) to exchange such Certificated Securities for an equal Principal Amount of beneficial interests in a Global Security of the same series of Notes, which beneficial interests will be owned by the Holder transferring such Certificated Securities (that in the case of such an exchange, Restricted Certificated Securities may be exchanged only for Restricted Global Securities and Unrestricted Certificated Securities may be exchanged only for Unrestricted Global Securities),
provided
the Trustee shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested by canceling such Certificated Security and causing the aggregate Principal Amount of the Global Security of such series of Notes to be increased accordingly and, if no such Global Security is then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver a new Global Security for the applicable series of Notes; , , that the Certificated Securities presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange:
provided
however
                    (3) shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer meeting the requirements the fifth paragraph of Section 3.05 of the Indenture;
                    (4) in the case of a Restricted Certificated Security to be transferred for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of the same series of Notes, such request shall be accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable:
                    (A) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
                    (B) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in item 3(a) of the Transfer Certificate, and, if the Company, the Trustee or the Security Registrar so requests, a customary opinion of counsel, certificates and other information reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Trustee to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act;
 
                    (5) in the case of a Restricted Certificated Security to be transferred or exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security of the same series of Notes, such request shall be accompanied by a certification from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) to the effect that such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred either (a) to a person the Holder reasonably believes is a QIB (which, in the case of an exchange, shall be such Holder) in accordance with Rule 144A or (b) if such Restricted Security is being transferred pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or 904 under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in item 3(b) of the Transfer Certificate); and
                    (6) in the case of an Unrestricted Certificated Security to be transferred or exchanged for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of the same series of Notes, such request need not be accompanied by any additional information or documents.
                    (f) .
Legends
                    (1) . Except as permitted below, each Restricted Global Security shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
Private Placement Legend
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS, AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION OF THIS SECURITY, THE HOLDER: (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT, PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION), RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY EXCEPT (A) TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC. OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (D) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT;
 
AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND. IF THE PROPOSED TRANSFEREE IS A PURCHASER WHO IS NOT A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER OR A U.S. PERSON, THE HOLDER MUST, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISH TO THE BANK OF NEW YORK AS TRUSTEE (OR A SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE, AS APPLICABLE), SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS IT MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE EARLIER OF THE TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY PURSUANT TO CLAUSE 2(D) ABOVE OR UPON ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION). AS USED IN THIS SECURITY, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTION," "UNITED STATES" AND "U.S. PERSON" HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
                    (2) . Each Global Security shall bear a legend as provided in Section 2.04(a) of the Indenture and shall also bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Security Legend
THIS NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (1) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 202 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (2) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 202 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (3) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.09 OF THE INDENTURE AND (3) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.
                    (3) . For so long as DTC is the Depository, each Global Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form in lieu of the legend required under Section 2.04(a) of the Indenture:
DTC Legend
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR
 
REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR INDIVIDUAL SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAMES OF PARTICIPANTS IN DTC, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC OR BY A NOMINEE OF DTC TO DTC OR A NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY.
                    (4) Upon any sale or transfer of a Restricted Global Security or Restricted Certificated Security (x) pursuant to Rule 144, or (y) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, as a result of which, in the case of a Security transferred pursuant to clause (x), such Security shall cease to be a "restricted security" within the meaning of Rule 144:
                    (A) in the case of any Restricted Certificated Security, the Trustee shall permit the Holder thereof to exchange such Restricted Certificated Security for an Unrestricted Certificated Security of the same series of Notes, or (under the circumstances described in Section 202(e) hereof) to transfer such Restricted Certificated Security to a transferee who shall take such Security in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of the same series of Notes, and in each case shall rescind any restriction on the transfer of such Security; , , that the Holder of such Restricted Certificated Security shall, in connection with such exchange or transfer, comply with the other applicable provisions of this Section 202; and
provided
however
                    (B) in the case of any beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, the Trustee shall permit the beneficial owner thereof to transfer such beneficial interest to a transferee who shall take such interest in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security of the same series of Notes and shall rescind any restriction on transfer of such beneficial interest; provided, however, that such Unrestricted Global Security shall continue to be subject to the provisions of Section 202(a)(2) hereof, and provided further, however, that the owner of such beneficial interest shall, in connection with such transfer, comply with the other applicable provisions of this Section 202.
 
                    (5) Upon the exchange, registration of transfer or replacement of Securities not bearing the legend described in paragraph (1) above, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in definitive registered form in authorized denominations, Securities that do not bear such legend and which do not have a Transfer Certificate attached thereto.
                    (g) . Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall prohibit the sale or other transfer of any Notes (including beneficial interests in Global Securities) to the Company, TW NY, TWE or any of their respective Subsidiaries.
Transfers to the Company
                    (h) . Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 3.03 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver promptly (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Securities for each series of Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities for the same series of Notes tendered for acceptance in accordance with the Exchange Offer and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer, and (ii) Certificated Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Certificated Securities for each series of Notes tendered for acceptance in accordance with the Exchange Offer and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Securities for the applicable series of Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of such Restricted Global Securities so accepted Unrestricted Global Securities of the same series of Notes in the appropriate principal amount.
Exchange Offer
               Section 203 .
Amount
                    (a) The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver 2012 Notes for original issue in an aggregate Principal Amount of up to $1,500,000,000 upon a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of 2012 Notes, without any further action by the Company. The aggregate Principal Amount of 2012 Notes that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture, as supplemented hereby, is unlimited. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the 2012 Notes, issue additional notes having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the 2012 Notes. Any additional 2012 Notes, together with the original issuance of 2012 Notes, including the Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes, will constitute a single series of 2012 Notes under the Indenture. No additional 2012 Notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred with respect to the 2012 Notes. The Company may not issue new 2012 Notes to replace 2012 Notes that it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
                    (b) The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver 2017 Notes for original issue in an aggregate Principal Amount of up to $2,000,000,000 upon a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of 2017 Notes, without any further action by the Company. The aggregate Principal Amount of 2017 Notes that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture, as supplemented hereby, is unlimited. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the 2017 Notes, issue additional notes having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the 2017 Notes. Any additional 2017 Notes, together with the original issuance of 2017 Notes, including the Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes, will constitute a single series of 2017 Notes under the Indenture. No additional 2017 Notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred with respect to the 2017 Notes. The Company may not issue new 2017 Notes to replace 2017 Notes that it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
                    (c) The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver 2037 Debentures for original issue in an aggregate Principal Amount of up to $1,500,000,000 upon a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of 2037 Debentures, without any further action by the Company. The aggregate Principal Amount of 2037 Debentures that may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture, as supplemented hereby, is unlimited. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the 2037 Debentures, issue additional debentures having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the 2037 Debentures. Any additional 2037 Debentures, together with the original issuance of 2037 Debentures, including the Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes, will constitute a single series of 2037 Debentures under the Indenture. No additional 2037 Debentures may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred with respect to the 2037 Debentures. The Company may not issue new 2037 Debentures to replace 2037 Debentures that it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
               Section 204 .
Interest
                    (a) Outstanding 2012 Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 5.40% per annum on the Principal Amount of the 2012 Notes from April 9, 2007, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date for the 2012 Notes to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, to, but excluding, July 2, 2012 (or such earlier date as determined pursuant to Section 211 of this First Supplemental Indenture), payable semiannually in arrears on January 2 and July 2 of each year, commencing on July 2, 2007, to the Persons in whose names the 2012 Notes are registered at the close of business on the December 15 or June 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date for the 2012 Notes; , , that interest on each Exchange Note issued in respect of the 2012 Notes will accrue from the last Interest Payment Date for the 2012 Notes to which interest was paid on the 2012 Note surrendered in exchange for such Exchange Note or, if no interest has been paid on such 2012 Note, from the Issuance Date of such 2012 Note. In accordance with Section 3.10
provided
however
 
of the Indenture, interest on the 2012 Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Each payment of interest on the 2012 Notes shall include interest accrued through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date for the 2012 Notes. If interest on the 2012 Notes is payable on a Saturday, Sunday or any other day when banks are not open for business in The City of New York, the Company will make the payment on the next Business Day, and no interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment. Interest will cease to accrue on a 2012 Note upon its maturity or redemption.
                    (b) Outstanding 2017 Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 5.85% per annum on the Principal Amount of the 2017 Notes from April 9, 2007, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date for the 2017 Notes to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, to, but excluding, May 1, 2017 (or such earlier date as determined pursuant to Section 211 of this First Supplemental Indenture), payable semiannually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, commencing on November 1, 2007, to the Persons in whose names the 2017 Notes are registered at the close of business on the April 15 or October 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date for the 2017 Notes; , , that interest on each Exchange Note issued in respect of the 2017 Notes will accrue from the last Interest Payment Date for the 2017 Notes to which interest was paid on the 2017 Note surrendered in exchange for such Exchange Note or, if no interest has been paid on such 2017 Note, from the Issuance Date of such 2017 Note. In accordance with Section 3.10 of the Indenture, interest on the 2017 Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Each payment of interest on the 2017 Notes shall include interest accrued through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date. If interest on the 2017 Notes is payable on a Saturday, Sunday or any other day when banks are not open for business in The City of New York, the Company will make the payment on the next Business Day, and no interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment. Interest will cease to accrue on a 2017 Note upon its maturity or redemption.
provided
however
                    (c) Outstanding 2037 Debentures shall bear interest at the rate of 6.55% per annum on the Principal Amount of the 2037 Debentures from April 9, 2007, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date for the 2037 Debentures to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, to, but excluding, May 1, 2037 (or such earlier date as determined pursuant to Section 211 of this First Supplemental Indenture), payable semiannually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, commencing on November 1, 2007, to the Persons in whose names the 2037 Debentures are registered at the close of business on the April 15 or October 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date for the 2037 Debentures; , , that interest on each Exchange Note issued in respect of the 2037 Debentures will accrue from the last Interest Payment Date for the 2037 Debentures to which interest was paid on the 2037 Debenture surrendered in exchange for such Exchange Note or, if no interest has been paid on such 2037 Debenture, from the Issuance Date of such 2037 Debenture. In accordance with Section 3.10 of the Indenture, interest on the 2037 Debentures will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of
provided
however
 
twelve 30-day months. Each payment of interest on the 2037 Debentures shall include interest accrued through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date for the 2037 Debentures. If interest on the 2037 Debentures is payable on a Saturday, Sunday or any other day when banks are not open for business in The City of New York, the Company will make the payment on the next Business Day, and no interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment. Interest will cease to accrue on a 2037 Debenture upon its maturity or redemption.
               Section 205
Additional Interest.
               Additional Interest with respect to the 2012 Notes, the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Notes shall be payable in accordance with the provisions and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
               Section 206
Denominations.
               Each Note shall be in fully registered form without coupons, in a denomination of $2,000 and integral multipliers of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.
               Section 207
Place of Payment.
               The Place of Payment for the Notes and the place or places where the Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange or redemption and where notices may be given to the Company in respect of the Notes is at the office of the Trustee in New York, New York and at the agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose at the office of the Trustee; , , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
               Section 208 .
Redemption
                    (a) There shall be no sinking fund for the retirement of any series of Notes.
                    (b) The Company may redeem each series of Notes in accordance with the provisions of Article XI the Indenture and Section 211 of this First Supplemental Indenture.
               Section 209 .
Stated Maturity
                    (a) The date on which the principal of the 2012 Notes is due and payable, unless earlier accelerated or redeemed pursuant to the Indenture, shall be July 2, 2012.
 
                    (b) The date on which the principal of the 2017 Notes is due and payable, unless earlier accelerated or redeemed pursuant to the Indenture, shall be May 1, 2017.
                    (c) The date on which the principal of the 2037 Debentures is due and payable, unless earlier accelerated or redeemed pursuant to the Indenture, shall be May 1, 2037.
               Section 210 .
Other Terms of Notes
               Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Article, the terms of the 2012 Notes, 2017 Notes and the 2037 Debentures shall be as set forth in the form of the 2012 Notes, 2017 Notes and the 2037 Debentures set forth in , and hereto, respectively, and as provided in the Indenture.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
               Section 211
Optional Redemption
               Each of the 2012 Notes, the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Debentures may be redeemed, in whole, or from time to time in part, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, notice written to the Holders of the applicable Notes and subject to the conditions set forth in Article XI of the Indenture and to the conditions and at the redemption prices set forth in the form of 2012 Notes, the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Debentures set forth in Exhibit A, Exhibit B and Exhibit C, respectively, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this First Supplemental Indenture, together with accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to the redemption date.
               Section 301 .
Provisions Applicable Only to Notes
               The Provisions contained herein shall apply to the Notes only and not to any other series of Security issued under the Indenture and any covenants provided herein are expressly being included solely for the benefit of the Notes and not for the benefit of any other series of Security issued under the Indenture. These amendments shall be effective for so long as there remain any Notes Outstanding.
               Section 302 .
Reports by Company
               If at any time while any of the Securities are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144, the Company is no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company shall prepare and shall furnish to any Holder, any beneficial owner of Securities and any prospective purchaser of
 
Securities designated by a Holder or a beneficial owner of Securities, promptly upon request, the information required pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) (or any successor thereto) under the Securities Act in connection with the offer, sale or transfer of Securities.
               Section 303
Events of Default
               Section 5.01(1) of the Indenture is hereby amended and restated in its entirety, only with respect to the 2012 Notes, the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Debentures, to read as follows:
"(1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series (including Additional Interest) when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or"
               Section 401 .
Integral Part
               This First Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture with respect to the Notes only.
               Section 402 .
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
               The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed, and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. The provisions of this First Supplemental Indenture shall, subject to the terms hereof, supersede the provisions of the Indenture to the extent the Indenture is inconsistent herewith.
               Section 403 .
Counterparts
               This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
               Section 404 .
Governing Law
               THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
               Section 405 .
Conflict of Any Provision of Indenture with Trust Indenture Act of 1939
               If and to the extent that any provision of this First Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by, or with another provision included in this First Supplemental Indenture by operation of, any of Sections 310 to 318, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such imposed duties or incorporated provision shall control.
               Section 406 .
Effect of Headings
               The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
               Section 407 .
Severability of Provisions
               In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
               Section 408 .
Successors and Assigns
               All covenants and agreements in this First Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the Guarantors shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
               Section 409 .
Benefit of Supplemental Indenture
               Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Security Registrar, any Paying Agent and their successors hereunder, and the Holders of the Notes, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture.
               Section 410 .
Acceptance by Trustee
               The Trustee accepts the amendments to the Indenture effected by this First Supplemental Indenture and agrees to execute the Securities created by the Indenture as hereby amended, but only upon the terms and conditions set forth in this First Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the recitals or statements contained herein, which shall be taken as the statements of the Company and except as provided in the Indenture the Trustee shall not be responsible or accountable in any way whatsoever for or with respect to the validity or execution or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture and the Trustee makes no representation with respect thereto.
 
               IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first written above.
Signature Page: First Supplemental Indenture
 
EXHIBIT A
[UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR INDIVIDUAL SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAMES OF PARTICIPANTS IN DTC, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC OR BY A NOMINEE OF DTC TO DTC OR A NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY.]
1
THIS SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (1) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 202 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (2) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 202 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (3) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.09 OF THE INDENTURE AND (3) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.]
2
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS, AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION OF THIS SECURITY, THE HOLDER: (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT, PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION), RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY EXCEPT (A) TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC. OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (D) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE, OR (E) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS
 
 
LEGEND. IF THE PROPOSED TRANSFEREE IS A PURCHASER WHO IS NOT A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER OR A U.S. PERSON, THE HOLDER MUST, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISH TO THE BANK OF NEW YORK AS TRUSTEE (OR A SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE, AS APPLICABLE), SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS IT MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE EARLIER OF THE TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY PURSUANT TO CLAUSE 2(D) ABOVE OR UPON ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION). AS USED IN THIS SECURITY, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTION," "UNITED STATES" AND "U.S. PERSON" HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
CUSIP: _______
               Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (such corporation or any successor under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof being called the "Company"), TW NY Cable Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TW NY"), and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE" and, together with TW NY, the "Guarantors"), promise to pay to or registered assigns, the principal sum of ($) on July 2, 2012, at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York. This Note has the benefit of unconditional guarantees by the Guarantors, as more fully described on the reverse hereof.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                     
               Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the other side of this Note.
Dated:           , 200_
 
 
 
               This Note (as defined below) is one of the duly authorized issue of senior debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Debt Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007, among the Company, TW NY, TWE, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of April 9, 2007, among the Company, TW NY, TWE, and the Trustee (as supplemented, the "Indenture") to which reference is hereby made for a statement of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, and any agent of the Trustee, any Paying Agent, the Company, the Guarantors and the Holders of the Debt Securities, and the terms upon which the Debt Securities are issued and may be authenticated and delivered.
               The Debt Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may have different conversion prices or exchange provisions (if any), may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any), may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as provided or permitted in the Indenture. This Note is one of the series of Debt Securities of the Company issued pursuant to the Indenture designated as the 5.40% Notes due 2012 (the "Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,500,000,000. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, issue additional notes having the same ranking, interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes. Any additional notes will, together with the Notes, constitute a single series of the Notes under the Indenture. No additional notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred with respect to the Notes.
               The Company promises to pay interest from April 9, 2007, on the principal amount of this Note semi-annually on January 2 and July 2 of each year beginning July 2, 2007 at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in like coin or currency, at the rate per annum specified in the title hereof. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If interest or principal on this Note is payable on a Saturday, Sunday or any other day when banks are not open for business in The City of New York, the Company will make the payment on the next business day, and no interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment.
 
               [Additional Interest may be paid in respect of this Note under the circumstances described in the Registration Rights Agreement. The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of such Registration Rights Agreement.]
3
               Each of TW NY and TWE, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, to each Holder of Notes, and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, (i) the full and punctual payment of principal of and interest on the Notes when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, and all other monetary obligations of the Company under the Indenture (including obligations to the Trustee) and the Notes and (ii) the full and punctual performance within applicable grace periods of all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture and the Notes.
               The Guarantees constitute guarantees of payment, performance and compliance and not merely of collection. The obligation of the Guarantors to make any payments may be satisfied by causing the Company or any other Person to make such payments. Further, the Guarantors agree to pay any and all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) incurred by the Trustee or any Holder of Notes in enforcing any of their respective rights under the Guarantees.
               The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any January 2 or July 2 will, except as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the December 15 or June 15 next preceding the interest payment date (herein called the "Regular Record Date") whether or not a Business Day, and may, at the option of the Company, be paid by check mailed to the registered address of such Person. Any such interest which is payable, but is not so punctually paid or duly provided for, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid either to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
               Initially, the Trustee will be the Paying Agent and Registrar with respect to this Note. The Company reserves the right at any time to vary or terminate the appointment of any Paying Agent or Registrar, to appoint additional or other Paying Agents and other Registrars and to approve any change in the office through which any Paying Agent or Registrar acts; , there will at all times be a Paying Agent in The City of New York.
provided that
 
 
               The Notes will be redeemable at any time and from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the option of the Company, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed, at respective redemption prices equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, as defined below, discounted to the redemption date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate, as defined below, plus 20 basis points, plus, in either case, accrued interest to the date of redemption that has not been paid (such redemption price, the "Redemption Price").
               "Comparable Treasury Issue" means, with respect to the Notes, the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("Remaining Life") of the Notes being redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the Remaining Life of such Notes.
               "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date for the Notes: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations obtained by the Trustee.
               "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers, to be appointed by the Company.
               "Reference Treasury Dealer" means four primary U.S. Government securities dealers to be selected by the Company.
               "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
               "Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; , , , if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date.
provided
however
that
               "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date for the Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated
 
"H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury debt securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; if no maturity is within three months before or after the maturity date for the Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the redemption date.
provided that
               On and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price, and accrued interest. On or before the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with a paying agent, or the Trustee, money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of and accrued interest on the Notes to be redeemed on such date. If the Company elects to redeem less than all of the Notes of a series, then the Trustee will select the particular Notes of such series to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate.
               If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes and all accrued interest thereon may be declared due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.
               The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the Company and the Trustee to enter into supplemental indentures to the Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Debt Securities of each series under the Indenture with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of all Series to be affected thereby (acting as one class). The Indenture also permits the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of each series on behalf of the Holders of all Debt Securities of such series to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults and their consequences with respect to such series under the Indenture. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note or such other Note. The Indenture also permits the release of a Guarantor from its obligations under its Guarantee in certain circumstances without the consent of the Holders of the Debt Securities.
 
               No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal and any premium of and any interest on this Note at the place, rate and respective times and in the coin or currency prescribed herein and in the Indenture.
               As provided in the Indenture and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions therein set forth, including the deposit of certain trust funds in trust, at the Company's option, either (i) the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by, and the obligations under, the Debt Securities of any series and to have satisfied all the obligations (with certain exceptions) under the Indenture relating to the Debt Securities and the Guarantees of such series or (ii) the Company and the Guarantors shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition of certain restrictive covenants or provisions set forth in any additions or changes to or deletions from covenants and Events of Default with respect to the Debt Securities and the Guarantees of such series.
               The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons, in a minimum denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. Notes may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture.
               Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Note at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, a new Note or Notes of authorized denominations for a like aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture.
               No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
               Subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
               Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
               THIS NOTE SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
               Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been manually executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
               The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to Time Warner Cable Inc., 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902, Attention of Investor Relations.
 
               The following exchanges or redemptions of a part of this Global Security have been made:
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
(Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax ID no.)
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
     
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
     
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
     
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
                    
                    
Date: Your Signature:
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
                     
                           
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note)
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
                    
                    
     
 
EXHIBIT B
[UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR INDIVIDUAL SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAMES OF PARTICIPANTS IN DTC, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC OR BY A NOMINEE OF DTC TO DTC OR A NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY.]
5
THIS SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (1) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 202 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (2) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 202 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (3) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.09 OF THE INDENTURE AND (3) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.]
6
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS, AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION OF THIS SECURITY, THE HOLDER: (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT, PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION), RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY EXCEPT (A) TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC. OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (D) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE, OR (E) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE
 
 
SECURITIES ACT; AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND. IF THE PROPOSED TRANSFEREE IS A PURCHASER WHO IS NOT A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER OR A U.S. PERSON, THE HOLDER MUST, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISH TO THE BANK OF NEW YORK AS TRUSTEE (OR A SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE, AS APPLICABLE), SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS IT MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE EARLIER OF THE TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY PURSUANT TO CLAUSE 2(D) ABOVE OR UPON ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION). AS USED IN THIS SECURITY, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTION," "UNITED STATES" AND "U.S. PERSON" HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
CUSIP:
                    
          Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (such corporation or any successor under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof being called the "Company"), TW NY Cable Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TW NY"), and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE" and, together with TW NY, the "Guarantors"), promise to pay to or registered assigns, the principal sum of ($) on May 1, 2017, at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York. This Note has the benefit of unconditional guarantees by the Guarantors, as more fully described on the reverse hereof.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                     
          Interest Payment:      Dates:Semi-annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1, beginning November 1, 2007
          Record Dates:      April 15 and October 15
          Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the other side of this Note.
Dated:            , 200___
 
 
 
          This Note (as defined below) is one of the duly authorized issue of senior debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Debt Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007, among the Company, TW NY, TWE, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of April 9, 2007, among the Company, TW NY, TWE, and the Trustee (as supplemented, the "Indenture") to which reference is hereby made for a statement of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, and any agent of the Trustee, any Paying Agent, the Company, the Guarantors and the Holders of the Debt Securities, and the terms upon which the Debt Securities are issued and may be authenticated and delivered.
          The Debt Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may have different conversion prices or exchange provisions (if any), may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any), may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as provided or permitted in the Indenture. This Note is one of the series of Debt Securities of the Company issued pursuant to the Indenture designated as the 5.85 % Notes due 2017 (the "Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $2,000,000,000. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, issue additional notes having the same ranking, interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes. Any additional notes will, together with the Notes, constitute a single series of the Notes under the Indenture. No additional notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred with respect to the Notes.
          The Company promises to pay interest from April 9, 2007, on the principal amount of this Note semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year beginning November 1, 2007 at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in like coin or currency, at the rate per annum specified in the title hereof. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If interest or principal on this Note is payable on a Saturday, Sunday or any other day when banks are not open for business in The City of New York, the Company will make the payment on the next business day, and no interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment.
 
          [Additional Interest may be paid in respect of this Note under the circumstances described in the Registration Rights Agreement. The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of such Registration Rights Agreement.]
7
          Each of TW NY and TWE, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, to each Holder of Notes, and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, (i) the full and punctual payment of principal of and interest on the Notes when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, and all other monetary obligations of the Company under the Indenture (including obligations to the Trustee) and the Notes and (ii) the full and punctual performance within applicable grace periods of all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture and the Notes.
          The Guarantees constitute guarantees of payment, performance and compliance and not merely of collection. The obligation of the Guarantors to make any payments may be satisfied by causing the Company or any other Person to make such payments. Further, the Guarantors agree to pay any and all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) incurred by the Trustee or any Holder of Notes in enforcing any of their respective rights under the Guarantees.
          The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any May 1 or November 1 will, except as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the April 15 or October 15 next preceding the interest payment date (herein called the "Regular Record Date") whether or not a Business Day, and may, at the option of the Company, be paid by check mailed to the registered address of such Person. Any such interest which is payable, but is not so punctually paid or duly provided for, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid either to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
          Initially, the Trustee will be the Paying Agent and Registrar with respect to this Note. The Company reserves the right at any time to vary or terminate the appointment of any Paying Agent or Registrar, to appoint additional or other Paying Agents and other Registrars and to approve any change in the office through which any
 
 
Paying Agent or Registrar acts; , there will at all times be a Paying Agent in The City of New York.
provided that
          The Notes will be redeemable at any time and from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the option of the Company, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed, at respective redemption prices equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, as defined below, discounted to the redemption date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate, as defined below, plus 30 basis points, plus, in either case, accrued interest to the date of redemption that has not been paid (such redemption price, the "Redemption Price").
          "Comparable Treasury Issue" means, with respect to the Notes, the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("Remaining Life") of the Notes being redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the Remaining Life of such Notes.
          "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date for the Notes: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations obtained by the Trustee.
          "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers, to be appointed by the Company.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer" means four primary U.S. Government securities dealers to be selected by the Company.
          "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
          "Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; , , , if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date.
provided
however
that
 
          "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date for the Notes: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury debt securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; if no maturity is within three months before or after the maturity date for the Notes, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the redemption date.
provided that
          On and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price, and accrued interest. On or before the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with a paying agent, or the Trustee, money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of and accrued interest on the Notes to be redeemed on such date. If the Company elects to redeem less than all of the Notes of a series, then the Trustee will select the particular Notes of such series to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate.
          If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes and all accrued interest thereon may be declared due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the Company and the Trustee to enter into supplemental indentures to the Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Debt Securities of each series under the Indenture with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of all Series to be affected thereby (acting as one class). The Indenture also permits the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of each series on behalf of the Holders of all Debt Securities of such series to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults and their consequences with respect to such series under the Indenture. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such
 
Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note or such other Note. The Indenture also permits the release of a Guarantor from its obligations under its Guarantee in certain circumstances without the consent of the Holders of the Debt Securities.
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal and any premium of and any interest on this Note at the place, rate and respective times and in the coin or currency prescribed herein and in the Indenture.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions therein set forth, including the deposit of certain trust funds in trust, at the Company's option, either (i) the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by, and the obligations under, the Debt Securities of any series and to have satisfied all the obligations (with certain exceptions) under the Indenture relating to the Debt Securities and the Guarantees of such series or (ii) the Company and the Guarantors shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition of certain restrictive covenants or provisions set forth in any additions or changes to or deletions from covenants and Events of Default with respect to the Debt Securities and the Guarantees of such series.
          The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons, in a minimum denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. Notes may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture.
          Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Note at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, a new Note or Notes of authorized denominations for a like aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture.
          No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          Subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
          Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
          THIS NOTE SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been manually executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
          The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to Time Warner Cable Inc., 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902, Attention of Investor Relations.
 
          The following exchanges or redemptions of a part of this Global Security have been made:
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
                    
 
 
EXHIBIT C
[UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR INDIVIDUAL SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAMES OF PARTICIPANTS IN DTC, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC OR BY A NOMINEE OF DTC TO DTC OR A NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY.]
9
THIS SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITORY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (1) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 202 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (2) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 202 OF THE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (3) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 3.09 OF THE INDENTURE AND (3) THIS GLOBAL SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITORY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY.]
10
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS, AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION OF THIS SECURITY, THE HOLDER: (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; (2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT, PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE HOLDING PERIOD APPLICABLE TO SALES OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION), RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY EXCEPT (A) TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC. OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) PURSUANT TO THE EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (D) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE, OR (E) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS
 
 
LEGEND. IF THE PROPOSED TRANSFEREE IS A PURCHASER WHO IS NOT A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER OR A U.S. PERSON, THE HOLDER MUST, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISH TO THE BANK OF NEW YORK AS TRUSTEE (OR A SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE, AS APPLICABLE), SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS IT MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE EARLIER OF THE TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY PURSUANT TO CLAUSE 2(D) ABOVE OR UPON ANY TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY UNDER RULE 144(k) UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION). AS USED IN THIS SECURITY, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTION," "UNITED STATES" AND "U.S. PERSON" HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
CUSIP:
                    
     Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (such corporation or any successor under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof being called the "Company"), TW NY Cable Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TW NY"), and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE" and, together with TW NY, the "Guarantors"), promise to pay to or registered assigns, the principal sum of ($) on May 1, 2037, at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York. This Debenture has the benefit of unconditional guarantees by the Guarantors, as more fully described on the reverse hereof.
                    
                    
                    
     Interest Payment Dates: Semi-annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1, beginning November 1, 2007
     Record Dates: April 15 and October 15
     Additional provisions of this Debenture are set forth on the other side of this Debenture.
Dated:                      , 200_
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
The Bank of New York, as Trustee,
 
     This Debenture (as defined below) is one of the duly authorized issue of senior debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Debt Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007, among the Company, TW NY, TWE, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of April 9, 2007, 2007, among the Company, TW NY, TWE, and the Trustee (as supplemented, the "Indenture") to which reference is hereby made for a statement of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, and any agent of the Trustee, any Paying Agent, the Company, the Guarantors and the Holders of the Debt Securities, and the terms upon which the Debt Securities are issued and may be authenticated and delivered.
     The Debt Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may have different conversion prices or exchange provisions (if any), may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any), may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as provided or permitted in the Indenture. This Debenture is one of the series of Debt Securities of the Company issued pursuant to the Indenture designated as the 6.55 % Debentures due 2037 (the "Debentures"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,500,000,000. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Debentures, issue additional debentures having the same ranking, interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Debentures. Any additional debentures will, together with the Debentures, constitute a single series of the Debentures under the Indenture. No additional debentures may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred with respect to the Debentures.
     The Company promises to pay interest from April 9, 2007, on the principal amount of this Debenture semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year beginning November 1, 2007 at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in like coin or currency, at the rate per annum specified in the title hereof. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. If interest or principal on this Debenture is payable on a Saturday, Sunday or any other day when banks are not open for business in The City of New York, the Company will make the payment on the next business day, and no interest will accrue as a result of the delay in payment.
 
     [Additional Interest may be paid in respect of this Debenture under the circumstances described in the Registration Rights Agreement. The Holder of this Debenture is entitled to the benefits of such Registration Rights Agreement.]
11
     Each of TW NY and TWE, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, to each Holder of Debentures, and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, (i) the full and punctual payment of principal of and interest on the Debentures when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, and all other monetary obligations of the Company under the Indenture (including obligations to the Trustee) and the Debentures and (ii) the full and punctual performance within applicable grace periods of all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture and the Debentures.
     The Guarantees constitute guarantees of payment, performance and compliance and not merely of collection. The obligation of the Guarantors to make any payments may be satisfied by causing the Company or any other Person to make such payments. Further, the Guarantors agree to pay any and all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) incurred by the Trustee or any Holder of Debentures in enforcing any of their respective rights under the Guarantees.
     The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any May 1 or November 1 will, except as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Debenture (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the April 15 or October 15 next preceding the interest payment date (herein called the "Regular Record Date") whether or not a Business Day, and may, at the option of the Company, be paid by check mailed to the registered address of such Person. Any such interest which is payable, but is not so punctually paid or duly provided for, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid either to the Person in whose name this Debenture (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Debentures not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Debentures may be listed and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
     Initially, the Trustee will be the Paying Agent and Registrar with respect to this Debenture. The Company reserves the right at any time to vary or terminate the appointment of any Paying Agent or Registrar, to appoint additional or other Paying Agents and other Registrars and to approve any change in the office through which any Paying Agent or Registrar acts; , there will at all times be a Paying Agent in The City of New York.
provided that
 
 
     The Debentures will be redeemable at any time and from time to time, as a whole or in part, at the option of the Company, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of the Debentures to be redeemed, at respective redemption prices equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Debentures to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, as defined below, discounted to the redemption date, on a semi-annual basis, assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate, as defined below, plus 35 basis points, plus, in either case, accrued interest to the date of redemption that has not been paid (such redemption price, the "Redemption Price").
     "Comparable Treasury Issue" means, with respect to the Debentures, the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("Remaining Life") of the Debentures being redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the Remaining Life of such Debentures.
     "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date for the Debentures: (1) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all quotations obtained by the Trustee.
     "Independent Investment Banker" means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers, to be appointed by the Company.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means four primary U.S. Government securities dealers to be selected by the Company.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
     "Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to each Debenture to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; , , , if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Debenture, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date.
provided
however
that
     "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date for the Debentures: (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the
 
immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury debt securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; if no maturity is within three months before or after the maturity date for the Debentures, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from those yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month; or (2) if that release, or any successor release, is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the redemption date.
provided that
     On and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Debentures or any portion thereof called for redemption, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price, and accrued interest. On or before the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with a paying agent, or the Trustee, money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of and accrued interest on the Debentures to be redeemed on such date. If the Company elects to redeem less than all of the Debentures of a series, then the Trustee will select the particular Debentures of such series to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate.
     If an Event of Default with respect to the Debentures shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Debentures and all accrued interest thereon may be declared due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the Company and the Trustee to enter into supplemental indentures to the Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Debt Securities of each series under the Indenture with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of all Series to be affected thereby (acting as one class). The Indenture also permits the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of each series on behalf of the Holders of all Debt Securities of such series to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults and their consequences with respect to such series under the Indenture. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Debenture shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Debenture and of any Debenture issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Debenture or such other Debenture. The Indenture also permits the release of a Guarantor from its obligations
 
under its Guarantee in certain circumstances without the consent of the Holders of the Debt Securities.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Debenture or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal and any premium of and any interest on this Debenture at the place, rate and respective times and in the coin or currency prescribed herein and in the Indenture.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions therein set forth, including the deposit of certain trust funds in trust, at the Company's option, either (i) the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by, and the obligations under, the Debt Securities of any series and to have satisfied all the obligations (with certain exceptions) under the Indenture relating to the Debt Securities and the Guarantees of such series or (ii) the Company and the Guarantors shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition of certain restrictive covenants or provisions set forth in any additions or changes to or deletions from covenants and Events of Default with respect to the Debt Securities and the Guarantees of such series.
     The Debentures are issuable in registered form without coupons, in a minimum denomination of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. Debentures may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Debentures of other authorized denominations at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture.
     Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Debenture at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, a new Debenture or Debentures of authorized denominations for a like aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Debenture is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Debenture is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms used in this Debenture which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
     THIS DEBENTURE SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been manually executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture, this Debenture shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
     The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to Time Warner Cable Inc., 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902, Attention of Investor Relations.
 
     The following exchanges or redemptions of a part of this Global Security have been made:
 
 
To assign this Debenture, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Debenture to
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Debenture on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                        
 
Date: Your Signature:
                                 
                                                                                                                                                      
 
 
 
EXHIBIT D
Time Warner Cable Inc. 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902
The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street New York, NY 10007 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
          Reference is hereby made to the Indenture dated as of April 9, 2007, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 9, 2007 (together, the "Indenture"), among Time Warner Cable Inc. (the "Company"), TW NY Cable Holding Inc. ("TW NY"), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. ("TWE" and, together with TW NY, "the Guarantors") and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee, relating to the 2012 Notes, the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Debentures issued by the Company and guaranteed by the Guarantors. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture or the First Supplemental Indenture.
          [] (the "Transferor") owns and proposes to transfer the [2012 Note[s]][2017 Note[s]] [2037 Debenture[s]] or interest in such [2012 Note[s]][2017 Note[s]] [2037 Debenture[s]] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $ in such [2012 Note[s]] [2017 Note[s]] [2037 Debentures] or interests (the "Transfer"), to (the "Transferee"), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
           1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Certificated Security is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Certificated Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Certificated Security
 
each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Certificated Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend.
           2. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Certificated Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend.
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Regulation S Global Note or a Certificated Security pursuant to Regulation S
           3. . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the germs of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Certificated Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend.
o
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or of an Unrestricted Certificated Security pursuant to Rule 144
           3. . The Transferee is the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company.
o
Check if Transferee is the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company
           4. . The transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act (file no. ). Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to an Effective Registration Statement
                    
 
or Certificated Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend.
 
          This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
1. The Transferor owns and proposes to transfer the following:
2. After the Transfer the Transferee will hold:
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.

 
Exhibit 4.3
Execution Copy
 
 
          This Registration Rights Agreement (this "") is dated as of April 9, 2007, by and among TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), TW NY CABLE HOLDING INC., a Delaware corporation (""), TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("," and together with TW NY, the "") (the Company and the Guarantors are referred to collectively herein as the ""), on the one hand, and ABN AMRO Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives (the "Representatives") for the several Purchasers named on Schedule I hereto (together with the Representatives, the ""), on the other hand.
Agreement
Company
TW NY
TWE
Guarantors
Issuers
Initial Purchasers
          This Agreement is entered into in connection with the Purchase Agreement, dated April 4, 2007, by and among the Issuers and the Initial Purchasers (the ""), relating to the offering of $1,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.40% Notes due 2012 of the Company (the ""), $2,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.85% Notes due 2017 of the Company (the "") and $1,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.55% Debentures due 2037 of the Company (the "" and, together with the 2012 Notes and the 2017 Notes, the "" and each, a "" of Notes ). The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the Initial Purchasers' obligation to purchase the Notes under the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
2012 Notes
2017 Notes
2037 Debentures
Notes
Series
          The parties hereby agree as follows:
     Section 1.
Definitions
          As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(c) hereof.
action
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Additional Interest
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Advice
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the first introductory paragraph hereto.
Agreement
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Applicable Period
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Board of Directors
          "" shall mean each day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to be closed.
Business Day
 
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the first introductory paragraph hereto and shall also include the Company's permitted successors and assigns.
Company
          "" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
          "" shall mean a calendar day.
day
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Delay Period
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(g) hereof.
EDGAR
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
Effectiveness Period
          "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Notes
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
          "" shall mean each free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) prepared by or on behalf of the Company or used or referred to by the Company in connection with the sale of the Notes or the Exchange Notes.
Free Writing Prospectus
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the first introductory paragraph hereto.
Guarantors
          "" shall mean any holder of a Registrable Note or Registrable Notes.
Holder
          "" shall mean the Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007, by and among the Issuers and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007, by and among the Issuers and Trustee pursuant to which the Notes are being issued, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the first introductory paragraph hereof.
Initial Purchasers
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(n) hereof.
Inspectors
          "" shall mean April 9, 2007, the date of original issuance of each Series of Notes.
Issue Date
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the first introductory paragraph hereto.
Issuers
 
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof.
Losses
          "" shall mean National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
NASD
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the second introductory paragraph hereto.
Notes
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof.
Participant
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealer
          "" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated limited liability company, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Private Exchange
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Private Exchange Notes
          "" shall mean the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, any prospectus subject to completion and a prospectus that includes any information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A or 430B promulgated under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any Free Writing Prospectus, prospectus supplement, and all other amendments and supplements to the Prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.
Prospectus
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the second introductory paragraph hereof.
Purchase Agreement
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(n) hereof.
Records
          "" shall mean each Note upon its original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto, each Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iv) hereof is applicable upon original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto and each Private Exchange Note upon original issuance thereof and at all times subsequent thereto, in each case until (i) a Registration Statement (other than, with respect to any Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iv) hereof is applicable, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) covering such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note has been declared effective by the Commission and such Note, Exchange Note or such Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, has been disposed of in accordance with such effective Registration Statement, (ii) such Note has been exchanged pursuant to the Exchange Offer for an Exchange Note or Exchange Notes that may be resold without restriction under federal securities laws, (iii) such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note, as the case may be, ceases to be outstanding for purposes of the Indenture or (iv) such Note, Exchange Note or Private Exchange Note has been sold in compliance with Rule 144 or is salable pursuant to Rule 144(k).
Registrable Notes
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Registration Default
 
          "" shall mean any appropriate registration statement of the Issuers covering any of the Registrable Notes filed with the Commission under the Securities Act, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including any Free Writing Prospectus, post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the first introductory paragraph hereto.
Representatives
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Requesting Participating Broker-Dealer
          "" shall mean Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar or successor rule (other than Rule 144A) or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission providing for offers and sales of securities made in compliance therewith resulting in offers and sales by subsequent holders that are not affiliates of an issuer of such securities being free of the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act.
Rule 144
          "" shall mean Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar or successor rule (other than Rule 144) or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission.
Rule 144A
          "" shall mean Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar or successor rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission.
Rule 415
          "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in the second introductory paragraph hereto.
Series
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(c) hereof.
Shelf Filing Event
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.
Shelf Registration
          "" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
TIA
          "" shall mean the trustee under the Indenture and the trustee (if any) under any indenture governing the Exchange Notes and Private Exchange Notes.
Trustee
          "" or "" shall mean a registration in which securities of the Issuers are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
underwritten registration
underwritten offering
 
     Section 2.
Exchange Offer
          (a) Unless the Exchange Offer would violate applicable law or interpretation of the staff of the Commission, the Issuers shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to (i) prepare and file a Registration Statement (the "") with the Commission on an appropriate registration form with respect to a registered offer (the "") to exchange any and all of the Registrable Notes for each Series for a like aggregate principal amount of notes of such series (including the guarantees with respect thereto, the "") that are identical in all material respects to the Notes of such Series (except that the Exchange Notes shall not contain restrictive legends, terms with respect to transfer restrictions or Additional Interest upon a Registration Default), (ii) cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act and (iii) consummate the Exchange Offer within 270 days after the Issue Date (or, if such 270th day is not a Business Day, on or prior to the first Business Day thereafter). Upon the Exchange Offer Registration Statement being declared effective by the Commission, the Issuers shall promptly commence the Exchange Offer and offer the Exchange Notes of each Series in exchange for surrender of the Notes of such Series. The Issuers shall keep the Exchange Offer open for not less than 30 days (or longer if required by applicable law) after the date notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
Exchange Offer
Exchange Notes
          Each Holder that participates in the Exchange Offer will be required to represent to the Issuers in writing that (i) any Exchange Notes to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of such Holder's business, (ii) it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Notes in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act, (iii) it is not an "affiliate" of the Company or any Guarantor as defined by Rule 405 of the Securities Act, or if it is an affiliate, it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act to the extent applicable, (iv) if such Holder is not a broker-dealer, it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Notes and (v) if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Notes for its own account in exchange for Registrable Notes that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities (a ""), it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Notes.
Participating Broker-Dealer
          (b) The Issuers and the Initial Purchasers acknowledge that the staff of the Commission has taken the position that any Participating Broker-Dealer may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Notes (other than a resale of an unsold allotment resulting from the original offering of the Notes).
          The Issuers and the Initial Purchasers also acknowledge that the staff of the Commission has taken the position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Notes, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Notes owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligations under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Notes for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
 
          In light of the foregoing, if requested by a Participating Broker-Dealer (a ""), the Issuers agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective for a period necessary to comply with applicable law in connection with such resales but in no event more than 180 days after the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective, or such longer period if extended pursuant to any Delay Period in accordance with the last paragraph of Section 5 hereof, or such earlier date as each Requesting Participating Broker-Dealer shall have notified the Company in writing that such Requesting Participating Broker-Dealer has resold all Exchange Notes acquired by it in the Exchange Offer (such period, the ""). The Issuers shall include a plan of distribution in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement that meets the requirements set forth in the preceding paragraph.
Requesting Participating Broker-Dealer
Applicable Period
          With respect to each Series, if, prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer, any Initial Purchaser or any other Holder holds any Notes of such Series acquired by it that have, or that are reasonably likely to be determined to have, the status of an unsold allotment in an initial distribution, or if any Holder is not entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer, the Issuers upon the request of any such Initial Purchaser or any such Holder, as the case may be, shall simultaneously with the delivery of the Exchange Notes of such Series in the Exchange Offer, issue and deliver to the Initial Purchasers or any such Holder, as the case may be, in exchange (the "") for such Notes of such Series held by such Initial Purchaser or any such Holder a like principal amount of notes of such Series (the "") of the Issuers that are identical in all material respects to the Exchange Notes of such Series except that the Private Exchange Notes of each Series may be subject to restrictions on transfer and bear a legend to such effect. The Private Exchange Notes of each Series shall be issued pursuant to the same indenture as the Exchange Notes of such Series and bear the same CUSIP number as the Exchange Notes (if permitted by the CUSIP Service Bureau).
Private Exchange
Private Exchange Notes
          Upon consummation of the Exchange Offer in accordance with this Section 2, the Issuers shall have no further registration obligations other than the Issuers' continuing registration obligations with respect to (i) Private Exchange Notes, (ii) Exchange Notes held by Participating Broker-Dealers and (iii) Notes or Exchange Notes as to which clause (c)(iv) of this Section 2 applies.
          In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Issuers shall:
     (1) mail or cause to be mailed to each Holder entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
     (2) utilize the services of a depository for the Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, which may be the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee;
     (3) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Notes at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last Business Day on which the Exchange Offer shall remain open; and
 
     (4) otherwise comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules and regulations.
     As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any, the Issuers shall:
     (1) accept for exchange all Registrable Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn by the Holders pursuant to the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any;
     (2) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Notes so accepted for exchange; and
     (3) with respect to each Series, issue and cause the Trustee to authenticate and deliver promptly to each such Holder of Registrable Notes of such Series, Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes of the same Series, as the case may be, equal in principal amount to the Registrable Notes of such Holder so accepted for exchange; provided, however, that in the case of any Registrable Notes held in global form by a depository, authentication and delivery to such depository of one or more Exchange Notes in global form in such amount shall satisfy such requirement.
          With respect to each Series, Interest on each Exchange Note and Private Exchange Note issued pursuant to the Exchange Offer and in the Private Exchange will accrue from the last interest payment date on which interest was paid on the Notes of such Series surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Notes of such Series, from the Issue Date.
          The Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that (i) the Exchange Offer or Private Exchange, as the case may be, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the Commission, (ii) no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or by any governmental agency which might materially impair the ability of the Issuers to proceed with the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange, and no material adverse development shall have occurred in any existing action or proceeding with respect to the Issuers and (iii) all governmental approvals shall have been obtained, which approvals the Company reasonably deems necessary for the consummation of the Exchange Offer or Private Exchange.
          With respect to each Series, the Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes of such Series shall be issued under (i) the Indenture of such Series or (ii) an indenture identical in all material respects to the Indenture of such Series (in either case, with such changes as are necessary to comply with any requirements of the Commission to effect or maintain the qualification thereof under the TIA) and which, in either case, has been qualified under the TIA and shall provide that (a) the Exchange Notes of such Series shall not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture and (b) the Private Exchange Notes of such Series shall be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture or such indenture shall provide that the Exchange Notes, the Private Exchange Notes and the Notes of such Series shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class and that none of the Exchange Notes, the Private Exchange Notes or the Notes of such Series will have the right to vote or consent as a separate class on any matter.
 
          (c) In the event that (i) any changes in law or the applicable interpretations of the staff of the Commission do not permit the Issuers to effect the Exchange Offer, (ii) for any reason the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 270 days of the Issue Date, or if such 270th day is not a Business Day, on or prior to the first Business Day thereafter, (iii) any Holder notifies the Company prior to the 30th day following consummation of the Exchange Offer that it is prohibited by law or applicable interpretations of the staff of the Commission from participating in the Exchange Offer, (iv) in the case of any Holder who participates in the Exchange Offer, such Holder notifies the Company prior to the 30th day following the consummation of the Exchange Offer that it did not receive Exchange Notes on the date of the exchange that may be sold without restriction under state and federal securities laws (other than due solely to the status of such Holder as an affiliate of any Issuer within the meaning of the Securities Act) or (v) any Initial Purchaser so requests with respect to Notes or Private Exchange Notes that have, or that are reasonably likely to be determined to have, the status of unsold allotments in an initial distribution (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (v) of this sentence, a ""), then the Issuers shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to file a Shelf Registration pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
Shelf Filing Event
     Section 3.
Shelf Registration
          If at any time a Shelf Filing Event shall occur, then:
     (a) . The Issuers shall use their commercially reasonable efforts to as promptly as practicable file with the Commission a Registration Statement for an offering to be made on a continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 covering all of the Registrable Notes not exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Private Exchange Notes and Exchange Notes as to which Section 2(c)(iv) is applicable (the ""). The Shelf Registration shall be on Form S-1 or another appropriate form permitting registration of such Registrable Notes for resale by Holders in the manner or manners designated by them (including, without limitation, one or more underwritten offerings). The Issuers shall not permit any securities other than the Registrable Notes to be included in the Shelf Registration.
Shelf Registration
Shelf Registration
     (b) The Issuers shall use their commercially reasonable efforts (x) to cause the Shelf Registration to be declared effective under the Securities Act and (y) to keep the Shelf Registration continuously effective under the Securities Act for the lesser of two years from the Issue Date and the time period referred to in Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (the ""), or such shorter period ending when all Registrable Notes covered by the Shelf Registration have been sold in the manner set forth and as contemplated in the Shelf Registration; , , that (i) the Effectiveness Period in respect of the Shelf Registration shall be extended to the extent required to permit dealers to comply with the applicable prospectus delivery requirements of Rule 174 under the Securities Act and (ii) the Company may suspend the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration by written notice to the Holders solely (A) as a result of the filing of a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration to incorporate annual audited financial information with respect to the Company where such post-effective amendment is not yet effective and needs to be declared effective to permit Holders to use the related Prospectus or (B) to the extent and for so long as permitted by the penultimate paragraph of Section 5.
Effectiveness Period
provided
however
 
     (c) . The Issuers agree to supplement or make amendments to the Shelf Registration and the related Prospectus as and when required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used for such Shelf Registration or by the Securities Act or rules and regulations thereunder for shelf registration.
Supplements and Amendments
     Section 4.
Additional Interest
          (a) The Issuers and the Initial Purchasers agree that the Holders will suffer damages if the Issuers fail to fulfill their obligations under Section 2 or Section 3 hereof and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages with precision. Accordingly, the Issuers agree that if:
     (i) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 270th day following the Issue Date, or, if that day is not a Business Day, the next day that is a Business Day; or
     (ii) the Shelf Registration is required to be filed but is not declared effective by the later of (1) the 210th day after the occurrence of the applicable Shelf Filing Event and (2) the 270th day following the issue date, or is declared effective by such date but thereafter ceases to be effective or usable during the Effectiveness Period (unless the Shelf Registration ceases to be effective or usable as specifically permitted by the penultimate paragraph of Section 5 hereof),
(each such event referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) a ""), the interest rate borne by the affected Registrable Notes of the applicable Series shall be increased ("") by 0.25% per annum; , that Additional Interest shall accrue only for those days that a Registration Default occurs and is continuing, including the date on which any such Registration Default shall occur to, but excluding, the earlier of (1) the date on which all Registration Defaults have been cured or (2) the date on which such Registrable Note of such Series ceases to be a Registrable Note of such Series or otherwise becomes freely transferable by Holders other than affiliates of the Issuers without further registration under the Securities Act. Such Additional Interest shall be calculated based on a year consisting of 360 days comprised of twelve 30-day months. With respect to each Series of Registrable Notes, following the cure of all Registration Defaults on such Series of Registrable Notes the accrual of Additional Interest will cease, the interest rate will revert to the original rate and, upon any subsequent Registration Default following any such cure of all Registration Defaults, Additional Interest will begin accruing again at a rate of 0.25% per annum as provided above until all Registration Defaults have been cured.
Registration Default
Additional Interest
provided
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) the amount of Additional Interest payable shall not increase because more than one Registration Default has occurred and is pending and (2) a Holder of Registrable Notes that is not entitled to the benefits of the Shelf Registration (., such Holder has not elected to include information with respect to itself in such Shelf Registration) shall not be entitled to Additional Interest with respect to a Registration Default that pertains to the Shelf Registration.
e.g
          (b) With respect to each Series, so long as Registrable Notes of such Series remain outstanding, the Company shall notify the Trustee within five Business Days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Additional Interest is required to be paid. The
 
Additional Interest due shall be payable on each interest payment date to the record Holder of Registrable Notes of the applicable Series affected thereby entitled to receive the interest payment to be paid on such date as set forth in the Indenture.
          The Initial Purchasers and the Holders acknowledge and agree that the Additional Interest provided by this Section 4 of this Agreement shall be the exclusive monetary remedy available to Holders for any Registration Default.
     Section 5.
Registration Procedures
          In connection with the filing of any Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2 or 3 hereof, the Issuers shall effect such registrations to permit the sale of the securities covered thereby in accordance with the intended method or methods of disposition thereof, and pursuant thereto and in connection with any Registration Statement filed by the Issuers hereunder, the Issuers shall:
     (a) Use their commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the Commission the Registration Statement or Registration Statements prescribed by Section 2 or 3 hereof, and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause each such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective as provided herein; , , that, if (1) such filing is pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period relating thereto, before filing any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto, the Issuers shall furnish to and afford the Holders of the Registrable Notes covered by such Registration Statement or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel (if requested by any such person) and the managing underwriters, if any, a reasonable opportunity to review copies of all such documents (including copies of any documents to be incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits thereto) proposed to be filed, that each such Person receiving documents in connection herewith shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such documents and the information contained herein (which actions may include, without limitation, the execution of a confidentiality agreement). The Issuers shall not file any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto if the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Notes covered by such Registration Statement, or any such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel, or the managing underwriters, if any, shall reasonably object.
provided
however
provided
     (b) Use their commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Shelf Registration or Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as the case may be, as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective for the Effectiveness Period or the Applicable Period, as the case may be; cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any Prospectus supplement required by applicable law, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) promulgated under the Securities Act; and comply with the applicable provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement as so amended or in
 
such Prospectus as so supplemented and with respect to the subsequent resale of any securities being sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer covered by any such Prospectus, in each case, in accordance with the intended methods of distribution set forth in such Registration Statement or Prospectus, as so amended or supplemented.
     (c) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, furnish without charge to each selling Holder named in any Shelf Registration Statement, and each of the underwriter(s), if any, or such Participating Broker-Dealer as the case may be, a reasonable time before filing with the Commission, copies of any Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (other than with respect to any such amendment or supplement resulting solely from the incorporation by reference of any report filed under the Exchange Act), which documents will be subject to the review and comment of such Holders and underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, or Participating Broker-Dealer as the case may be, for a period of at least three Business Days, and the Issuers will not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all such documents incorporated by reference) to which the Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, or the Participating Broker-Dealer as the case may be, shall reasonably object in writing within three Business Days after the receipt of the draft thereof (such objection to be deemed timely made upon confirmation of facsimile transmission within such period). Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Issuers shall not be required to take any actions under this Section 5(c) that are not, in the reasonable opinion of counsel for the Issuers, in compliance with applicable law or to include any disclosure which at the time would have an adverse effect on the business or operations of the Company and/or its subsidiaries, as determined in good faith by the Issuers and (ii) any Person who receives disclosure pursuant to this Section 5(c) shall agree in writing that it will not disclose, or use in connection with any market transactions in violation of any applicable securities laws, any such information that the Company determines, in good faith, to be confidential and that it notifies such Person in writing is confidential unless (i) the disclosure of such information is necessary to avoid or correct a material misstatement or omission in such Registration Statement or Prospectus or (ii) such information has been made generally available to the public.
     (d) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period relating thereto from whom the Company has received written notice that such broker-dealer will be a Participating Broker-Dealer in the applicable Exchange Offer, notify the selling Holders of Registrable Notes, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel (if such counsel is known to the Issuers) and the managing underwriters, if any, as promptly as possible (i) when a Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to a Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective under the Securities Act (including in such notice a written statement that
 
any Holder may, upon request, obtain, at the sole expense of the Issuers, one conformed copy of such Registration Statement or post-effective amendment including financial statements and schedules, documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference and exhibits), (ii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iii) if at any time when a Prospectus is required by the Securities Act to be delivered in connection with sales of the Registrable Notes or resales of Exchange Notes by Participating Broker-Dealers the representations and warranties of the Issuers contained in any agreement (including any underwriting agreement) contemplated by Section 5(m) hereof cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (iv) of the receipt by any of the Issuers of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of a Registration Statement or any of the Registrable Notes or the Exchange Notes for offer or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (v) of the making of any changes in or amendments or supplements to such Registration Statement, Prospectus or documents so that, in the case of the Registration Statement, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and that in the case of the Prospectus, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (vi) of the Company's determination that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate.
     (e) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, use their commercially reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of a Prospectus or suspending the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Notes or the Exchange Notes, as the case may be, for sale in any jurisdiction, and, if any such order is issued, to use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any such order at the earliest practicable moment.
     (f) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, furnish to each selling Holder of Registrable Notes or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, who so requests, one firm of counsel for all such persons and each managing underwriter, if any, at the sole expense of the Issuers, one conformed copy of the Registration Statement or Registration Statements and each post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, and, if requested, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits.
     (g) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus
 
contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, deliver to each selling Holder of Registrable Notes or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their respective counsel (if requested) and the underwriters, if any, at the sole expense of the Issuers, if not otherwise available on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval ("EDGAR") System or similar system, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses (including each form of preliminary prospectus) and each amendment or supplement thereto and any documents incorporated by reference therein as such Persons may reasonably request; and, subject to the last paragraph of this Section 5, the Issuers hereby consent to the use of such Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Notes or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, and the underwriters or agents, if any, and dealers (if any), in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Notes covered by, or the sale by Participating Broker-Dealers of the Exchange Notes pursuant to, such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.
     (h) Prior to any public offering of Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes or any delivery of a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, use their commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify, and to cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Notes or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes, as the case may be, for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any selling Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer, or the managing underwriter or underwriters reasonably request; keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be kept effective and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Exchange Notes or Registrable Notes covered by the applicable Registration Statement; , , that no Issuer shall be required to (A) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified, (B) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject or (C) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
however
     (i) If a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Notes and the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Notes to be sold, which certificates, consistent with the Indenture, shall not bear any restrictive legends and shall be in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company; and enable such Registrable Notes to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or selling Holders may reasonably request a reasonable period of time prior to any sale of such Registrable Notes.
     (j) Use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes covered by any Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by
 
such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be reasonably necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof or the underwriter or underwriters, if any, to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes, except as may be required solely as a consequence of the nature of such selling Holder's business, in which case the Issuers will cooperate in all reasonable respects with the filing of such Registration Statement and the granting of such approvals.
     (k) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 5(d)(v) or 5(d)(vi) hereof, as promptly as practicable prepare and (subject to Section 5(a) and the penultimate paragraph of this Section 5) file with the Commission, at the sole expense of the Issuers, a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Notes being sold thereunder or to the purchasers of the Exchange Notes to whom such Prospectus will be delivered by a Participating Broker-Dealer, any such Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     (l) On or prior to the effective date of the first Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Notes of each Series, (i) provide the Trustee with certificates for the Registrable Notes of each Series in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and (ii) provide a CUSIP number for the Registrable Notes of each Series.
     (m) In connection with any underwritten offering of Registrable Notes pursuant to a Shelf Registration, enter into an underwriting agreement as is customary in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Notes and take all such other actions as are reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of such Registrable Notes and, whether or not such offering is an underwritten offering, (i) use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the written opinions of counsel to the Issuers and written updates thereof in form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters, addressed to the underwriters covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings; and (ii) use their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain "comfort" letters and updates thereof in form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters from the independent certified public accountants of the Issuers (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement), addressed to each of the underwriters, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings.
 
     (n) If (1) a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof or (2) a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, make reasonably available for inspection by any selling Holder of such Registrable Notes being sold or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, any underwriter participating in any such disposition of Registrable Notes, if any, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by any such selling Holder or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, or underwriter (collectively, the ""), at the offices where normally kept, during reasonable business hours, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and instruments of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "") as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise any applicable due diligence responsibilities, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement and Prospectus. Each Inspector shall agree in writing that it will keep the Records confidential and that it will not disclose, or use in connection with any market transactions in violation of any applicable securities laws, any Records that the Company determines, in good faith, to be confidential and that it notifies the Inspectors in writing are confidential unless (i) the disclosure of such Records is necessary to avoid or correct a material misstatement or omission in such Registration Statement or Prospectus, (ii) the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction, (iii) disclosure of such information is necessary or advisable in the opinion of counsel for an Inspector in connection with any action, claim, suit or proceeding, directly or indirectly, involving or potentially involving such Inspector and arising out of, based upon, relating to, or involving this Agreement or the Purchase Agreement, or any transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or arising hereunder or thereunder, or (iv) the information in such Records has been made generally available to the public; , , that (i) each Inspector shall agree to provide notice to the Company of the potential disclosure of any information by such Inspector pursuant to clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of this sentence to permit the Issuers to obtain a protective order (or waive the provisions of this paragraph (n)) and (ii) each such Inspector shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information (if practicable) to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of the Holder or any Inspector.
Inspectors
Records
provided
however
     (o) In the case of a Shelf Registration, promptly prior to the filing of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or Prospectus, provide copies of such document, to the extent requested, to the Initial Purchaser, each selling Holder named in any Registration Statement, and to the underwriter(s), if any, make each of the Issuers' and Guarantors' management, officers and other representatives available for discussion of such document and other customary due diligence matters, and include such information in such document prior to the filing thereof as such selling Holders or underwriter(s), if any, reasonably may request; provided that the requirements of this paragraph shall not apply to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, its Current Reports on Form 8-K or any other documents filed pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Person who receives documents or disclosure pursuant to this Section 5(o) shall agree
Exchange Act Documents
 
in writing that it will not disclose, or use in connection with any market transactions in violation of any applicable securities laws, any such information that the Company determines, in good faith, to be confidential and that it notifies such Person in writing are confidential unless (i) the disclosure of such information is necessary to avoid or correct a material misstatement or omission in such Registration Statement or Prospectus or (ii) such information has been made generally available to the public.
     (p) Provide an indenture trustee for the Registrable Notes or the Exchange Notes of each Series, as the case may be, and cause the Indenture or the trust indenture provided for in Section 2(a) hereof to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of the Exchange Offer or the first Registration Statement relating to the Registrable Notes of such Series; and in connection therewith, cooperate with the trustee under any such indenture and the Holders of the Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes of such Series, as applicable, to effect such changes to such indenture as may be required for such indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA; and execute, and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause such trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner.
     (q) Comply in all material respects with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and make generally available to the Company's securityholders earnings statements satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) no later than 45 days after the end of any 12-month period (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) (i) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts underwritten offering and (ii) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company after the effective date of a Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods consistent with the requirements of Rule 158.
     (r) If the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Registrable Notes by Holders to the Company (or to such other Person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the Exchange Notes or the Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be, mark, or cause to be marked, on such Registrable Notes that such Registrable Notes are being cancelled in exchange for the Exchange Notes or the Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be; that in no event shall such Registrable Notes be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
provided
     (s) Cooperate with each seller of Registrable Notes covered by any Registration Statement and each underwriter, if any, participating in the disposition of such Registrable Notes and their respective counsel in connection with any filings reasonably required to be made with the NASD.
     (t) Use their commercially reasonable efforts to take all other steps reasonably necessary or advisable to effect the registration of the Exchange Notes and/or Registrable Notes covered by a Registration Statement contemplated hereby.
 
          The Company may require each seller of Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes as to which any registration is being effected to furnish to the Company such information regarding such seller and the distribution of such Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes as the Company may, from time to time, reasonably request. The Company may exclude from such registration the Registrable Notes of any seller so long as such seller fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request and in the event of such an exclusion, the Issuers shall have no further obligation under this Agreement (including, without limitation, the obligations under Section 4) with respect to such seller or any subsequent Holder of such Registrable Notes. Each seller as to which any Shelf Registration is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make any information previously furnished to the Company by such seller not materially misleading.
          Each Holder of Registrable Notes and each Participating Broker-Dealer agrees by acquisition of such Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes that, upon the Company providing notice to such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, (x) of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 5(d)(ii), 5(d)(iii), 5(d)(iv) or 5(d)(v) hereof, or (y) that the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") has resolved that the Company has a business purpose for doing so, then, upon providing such notice (which shall refer to the penultimate paragraph of this Section 5), the Issuers may delay the filing or the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration (if not then filed or effective, as applicable) and shall not be required to maintain the effectiveness thereof or amend or supplement the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration, in all cases, for a period (each, "") expiring upon the earlier to occur of (i) in the case of the immediately preceding clause (x), such Holder's or Participating Broker-Dealer's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 5(j) hereof or until it is advised in writing (the "") by the Company that the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any amendments or supplements thereto or (ii) in the case of the immediately preceding clause (y), the date which is the earlier of (A) the date on which such business purpose ceases to interfere with the Issuers' obligations to file or maintain the effectiveness of any such Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement or (B) 120 days after the Company notifies the Holders of such good faith determination. There shall not be (i) more than three Delay Periods during any 12-month period and (ii) more than an aggregate of 180 days of Delay Periods during any 12-month period. The maximum length of the Applicable Period set forth in Section 2(b) shall be extended by a number of days equal to the number of days during any Delay Period. Any Delay Period will not alter the obligations of the Issuers to pay Additional Interest under the circumstances set forth in Section 4 hereof.
Board of Directors
bona fide
Delay Period
Advice
          Each Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, by its acceptance of any Registrable Note, agrees that during any Delay Period, each Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer will discontinue disposition of such Notes or Exchange Notes covered by such Registration Statement or Prospectus or Exchange Notes to be sold by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be.
     Section 6.
Registration Expenses
          All fees and expenses incident to the performance of or compliance with this Agreement by the Issuers (other than any underwriting discounts or commissions) shall be borne by the Issuers, whether or not the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration is filed or
 
becomes effective or the Exchange Offer is consummated, including, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of compliance with state securities or Blue Sky laws (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes and determination of the eligibility of the Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions (x) where the holders of Registrable Notes are located, in the case of an Exchange Offer, or (y) as provided in Section 5(h) hereof, in the case of a Shelf Registration or in the case of Exchange Notes to be sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period)), (ii) printing expenses, including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and of printing prospectuses if the printing of prospectuses is requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Notes included in any Registration Statement or in respect of Exchange Notes to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period, as the case may be, (iii) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses of the Issuers, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Issuers and the reasonable fees and disbursements of one special counsel for all of the sellers of Registrable Notes in connection with the Shelf Registration not to exceed $20,000 (exclusive of any counsel retained pursuant to Section 7 hereof) selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes, Exchange Notes and Private Exchange Notes being registered and reasonably satisfactory to the Issuers, (v) fees and disbursements of all independent registered public accounting firms referred to in Section 5(m)(ii) hereof (including, without limitation, the expenses of any special audit and "comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance), (vi) fees and expenses of all other Persons retained by any of the Issuers, (vii) internal expenses of the Issuers (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of officers and employees of the Company performing legal or accounting duties), (viii) the expense of any annual audit, (ix) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the securities to be registered on any securities exchange, and the obtaining of a rating of the securities, in each case, if applicable, (x) any required fees and expenses incurred in connection with any filing required to be made with the NASD and (xi) the expenses relating to printing and distributing all Registration Statements and the certificates representing the Notes and Exchange Notes. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary, each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions of any underwriters with respect to any Registrable Notes sold by or on behalf of it.
     Section 7.
Indemnification
          (a) The Issuers, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Registrable Notes included in a Registration Statement and each Participating Broker-Dealer selling Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, each Person, if any, who controls any such Person within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, the agents, employees, officers and directors of each Holder and each such Participating Broker-Dealer and the agents, partners, members, employees, officers, managers and directors of any such controlling Person (each, a "") from and against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses whatsoever (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees of one firm of counsel (together with any local counsel) and any and all reasonable expenses actually incurred in investigating or defending against any litigation, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever, and any and all reasonable amounts paid in settlement of any claim or litigation that is approved by the Issuers in accordance with Section 7(c) below)
Participant
 
(collectively, "") to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or any preliminary prospectus or any Free Writing Prospectus, or caused by, arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, that (i) the foregoing indemnity shall not be available to any Participant insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to such Participant furnished to the Company in writing by or on behalf of such Participant expressly for use therein and (ii) that part of a registration statement which shall constitute the statement of Eligibility and Qualification (Form T-1) of the Trustee. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Issuers may otherwise have, including, but not limited to, liability under this Agreement.
Losses
provided
          (b) Each Participant agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless each Issuer, each Person, if any, who controls any Issuer within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, and each of their respective agents, partners, members, employees, officers and members of the board of directors from and against any Losses to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or any preliminary prospectus, or any Free Writing Prospectus or caused by, arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that any such Loss arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to such Participant furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of such Participant expressly for use therein.
          (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection 7(a) or 7(b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding (collectively, an ""), such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify each party against whom indemnification is to be sought in writing of the commencement of such action (but the failure so to notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability that it may have under this Section 7 except to the extent that it has been prejudiced in any material respect by such failure). In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies an indemnifying party of the commencement of such action, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in such action, and to the extent it may elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense of such action with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnified party or parties shall
action
 
have the right to employ its or their own counsel in any such action, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party or parties unless (i) the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by the indemnifying parties in connection with the defense of such action, (ii) the indemnifying parties shall not have employed counsel to take charge of the defense of such action within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, or (iii) the named parties to such action (including any impleaded parties) include such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or parties (or such indemnifying parties have assumed the defense of such action), and such indemnified party or parties shall have reasonably concluded, after consultation with counsel, that there may be defenses available to it or them that are different from or additional to those available to one or all of the indemnifying parties (in which case the indemnifying parties shall not have the right to direct the defense of such action on behalf of the indemnified party or parties), in any of which events such reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be borne by the indemnifying parties. In no event shall the indemnifying party be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one firm of counsel (together with appropriate local counsel) at any time for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but substantially similar or related actions arising in the same jurisdiction out of the same general allegations or circumstances. Any such separate firm for the Participants shall be designated in writing by Participants who sold a majority in interest of Registrable Notes sold by all such Participants and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company and any such separate firm for the Issuers, their affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents and such control Person of such Issuers shall be designated in writing by such Issuers and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Holders. An indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any claim or action effected without its written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
          (d) In order to provide for contribution in circumstances in which the indemnification provided for in this Section 7 is for any reason held to be unavailable from the indemnifying party for any Losses referred to therein, or is insufficient to hold harmless a party indemnified under this Section 7 for any Losses referred to therein, each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such aggregate Losses (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by each indemnifying party, on the one hand, and each indemnified party, on the other hand, from the sale of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers or the resale of the Registrable Notes by such Holder, as applicable, or (ii) if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of each indemnified party, on the one hand, and each indemnifying party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Issuers, on the one hand, and each Participant, on the other hand, shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as (x) the total proceeds from the sale of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers (net of discounts and commissions but before deducting expenses) received by the Issuers are to (y) the total fees and commissions received by such Participant in connection with the sale of the Registrable
 
Notes. The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Issuers or such Participant and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission or alleged statement or omission.
          (e) The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, (i) in no case shall any Participant be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the fees and commissions received by such Participant in connection with the sale of the Registrable Notes exceeds the amount of any damages that such Participant has otherwise paid by reason of any untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission and (ii) no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Any party entitled to contribution will, promptly after receipt of notice of commencement of any action against such party in respect of which a claim for contribution may be made against another party or parties under this Section 7, notify such party or parties from whom contribution may be sought, but the omission to so notify such party or parties shall not relieve the party or parties from whom contribution may be sought from any obligation it or they may have under this Section 7 or otherwise, except to the extent that it has been prejudiced in any material respect by such failure; , , that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under this Section 7 for purposes of indemnification. Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, no party shall be liable for contribution with respect to any action or claim settled without its written consent, , , that such written consent was not unreasonably withheld.
provided
however
provided
however
     Section 8.
Rules 144 and 144A
          The Issuers covenant that if at any time the Issuers are not subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, they will, upon the request of any Holder, or beneficial owner, of Registrable Notes that are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 and are not saleable pursuant to Rule 144(k), make available such information necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The Issuers further covenant that for so long as any Registrable Notes remain outstanding they will take such further action as any Holder of Registrable Notes may reasonably request from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Registrable Notes without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by Rule 144(k) and Rule 144A under the Securities Act, as such Rules may be amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to require the Issuers to register any of their securities under any section of the Exchange Act.
     Section 9.
Underwritten Registrations
          If any of the Registrable Notes covered by any Shelf Registration are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will
 
manage the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such Registrable Notes included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company.
          No Holder of Registrable Notes may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder if such Holder does not (a) agree to sell such Holder's Registrable Notes on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) complete and execute all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
     Section 10.
Miscellaneous
          (a) . The Issuers have not entered, as of the date hereof, and shall not, after the date of this Agreement, enter into any agreement with respect to any of their securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Notes in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not conflict with and are not inconsistent with, in any material respect, the rights granted to the holders of any of the Issuers' other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
          (b) . The Issuers shall not, directly or indirectly, take any action with respect to the Registrable Notes of each Series as a class that would adversely affect the ability of the Holders of Registrable Notes of such Series to include such Registrable Notes in a registration undertaken pursuant to this Agreement other than as contemplated in this Agreement.
Adjustments Affecting Registrable Notes
          (c) . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given except pursuant to a written agreement duly signed and delivered by (I) the Company (on behalf of all Issuers) and (II) (A) the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Registrable Notes and (B) in circumstances that would adversely affect the Participating Broker-Dealers, the Participating Broker-Dealers holding not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Exchange Notes held by all Participating Broker-Dealers; provided, however, that this Section 10(c) may not be amended, modified or supplemented except pursuant to a written agreement duly signed and delivered by the Issuers and each Holder and each Participating Broker-Dealer (including any Person who was a Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer of Registrable Notes or Exchange Notes, as the case may be, disposed of pursuant to any Registration Statement) affected by any such amendment, modification, waiver or supplement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to depart from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders of Registrable Notes whose securities are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect, impair, limit or compromise the rights of other Holders of Registrable Notes may be given by Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Notes being sold pursuant to such Registration Statement.
Amendments and Waivers
          (d) . All notices and other communications (including, without limitation, any notices or other communications to the Trustee) provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, next-day air courier or telecopier:
Notices
 
     (i) if to a Holder of the Registrable Notes or any Participating Broker-Dealer, at the most current address of such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, set forth on the records of the registrar under the Indenture.
     (ii) if to any Issuer, to it at:
Time Warner Cable Inc. 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902
Fax: (203) 328-4094 Attention: General Counsel
with a copies to:
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1285 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10019-6064
Fax: (212) 757-3990 Attention: John C. Kennedy, Esq.
and
Time Warner Inc. One Time Warner Center New York, NY 10019
Fax: (212) 484-7151 Attention: Treasurer
 
     (iii) if to the Representatives, to them at:
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich St. New York, NY 10013
Fax: (212) 816-7912 Attention: General Counsel ABN AMRO Incorporated Park Avenue Plaza 55 East 52nd Street New York, NY 10055
Attention: Legal Department
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. 60 Wall Street New York, NY 10005
Fax: (212) 797-2202 Attention: Debt Capital Markets
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC One Wachovia Center, DC-6 (NC0613) 301 South College Street Charlotte, NC 28288-0602
Fax: (704) 383-0661 Attention: Syndicate Department
          All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: when delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged by the recipient's telecopier machine, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
          Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address and in the manner specified in such Indenture.
          (e) . So long as any Registrable Notes remain outstanding, the Issuers shall cause each Person that becomes a guarantor of the Notes under the Indenture to execute and deliver a counterpart to this Agreement which subjects such Person to the provisions of this Agreement as a Guarantor.
Guarantors
 
          (f) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto, the Holders and the Participating Broker-Dealers; provided, however, that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign holds Registrable Notes.
Successors and Assigns
          (g) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
          (h) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
          .
(i)
Governing Law
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THEREOF.
          (j) . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and the parties hereto shall use their best efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction. It is hereby stipulated and declared to be the intention of the parties that they would have executed the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions without including any of such that may be hereafter declared invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable.
Severability
          (k) . Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Notes is required hereunder, Registrable Notes held by the Issuers or any of their affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Securities Held by the Issuers or Their Affiliates
          (l) . Holders and beneficial owners of Registrable Notes and Participating Broker-Dealers are intended third-party beneficiaries of this Agreement, and this Agreement may be enforced by such Persons. No other Person is intended to be, or shall be construed as, a third-party beneficiary of this Agreement.
Third-Party Beneficiaries
          (m) . This Agreement, together with the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture, is intended by the parties as a final and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and therein and any and all prior oral or written agreements, representations, or warranties, contracts, understandings, correspondence, conversations and memoranda between the Holders on the one hand and the Issuers on the other, or between or among any agents, representatives, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors in interest or successors in interest with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof are merged herein and replaced hereby.
Entire Agreement
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
Signature Page: Registration Rights Agreement
 
Signature Page: Registration Rights Agreement

 
Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
April 4, 2007 New York, New York
To the Representatives   named in Schedule I   hereto of the Purchasers   named in Schedule I hereto
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several initial purchasers named in Schedule I hereto (the "Purchasers"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, the respective principal amounts of its 5.40 % Notes due 2012, 5.85 % Notes due 2017 and 6.55 % Debentures due 2037 identified in Schedule I hereto (collectively, the "Debt Securities"), to be issued under an indenture (as from time to time amended or supplemented, the "Indenture") among the Company, TW NY Cable Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TW NY"), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE" and, together with TW NY, the "Guarantors"), and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee") (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture, to be entered into among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance of debt securities in one or more series, all of which will be entitled to the benefit of the Guarantees referred to below. Each of TW NY and TWE is a subsidiary of the Company. Pursuant to the Indenture, each of TW NY and TWE, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, has agreed to fully, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee (together, the "Guarantees," and together with the Debt Securities, the "Securities"), to each holder of Debt Securities and to the Trustee, (i) the full and punctual payment of principal of and interest on the Debt Securities when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, and all other monetary obligations of the Company under the Indenture and the Debt Securities and (ii) the full and punctual performance within applicable grace periods of all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture and the Debt Securities. If the firm or firms listed in Schedule I hereto include only the firm or firms listed in Schedule I hereto, then the terms "Purchasers" and "Representatives," as used herein, shall each be deemed to refer to such firm or firms.
     Holders (including subsequent transferees) of the Securities will have the registration rights set forth in the registration rights agreement, among the Company, the Guarantors and the Purchasers (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), to be dated the
 
2
Closing Date, for so long as such Debt Securities constitute "Registrable Notes" (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement). Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will agree to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), under the circumstances set forth therein, (i) a registration statement under the Act (the "Exchange Offer Registration Statement") relating to the Securities in a like aggregate principal amount as the Company issued under the Indenture, identical in all material respects to the Securities and registered under the Act (the "Exchange Notes"), to be offered in exchange for the Securities (such offer to exchange being referred to as the "Exchange Offer") and (ii) if necessary under the Registration Rights Agreement, a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Act (the "Shelf Registration Statement") and, together with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the "Registration Statements") relating to the resale by certain holders of the Securities and to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statements to become effective and cause such Registration Statements to remain effective and usable for the periods specified in the Registration Rights Agreement and to consummate the Exchange Offer.
          All references in this Agreement to the Preliminary Offering Memorandum (as defined in Section 1(a) hereof), the Disclosure Package, and the Final Offering Memorandum (as defined in Section 1(a) hereof ) shall be deemed as of the relevant time and date to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein that were filed prior to the Execution Time; all references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information that is "contained", "included", "stated" or "set forth" in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Disclosure Package, or the Final Offering Memorandum (and all other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference from time to time in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Disclosure Package, and the Final Offering Memorandum, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum shall be deemed to mean and include any (i) Permitted Free Writing Communication (as defined in Section 5(g) hereof) used by the Company after the date of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Final Offering Memorandum, as the case may be, or (ii) any document incorporated by reference therein that was filed after the Execution Time. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 19 hereof.
          1. . Each of the Company, TW NY, and TWE represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Purchaser as set forth below in this Section 1.
Representations and Warranties
     (a) A preliminary offering memorandum, dated April 4, 2007 (the "Preliminary Offering Memorandum"), relating to the Debt Securities to be offered to the Purchasers and a final offering memorandum dated as of the date of this Agreement (the "Final Offering Memorandum") disclosing the offering price and other final terms of the Debt Securities (even if finalized and issued subsequent to the date of this Agreement) have been or will be prepared by the Company.
 
3
     (b) As of the Execution Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Final Offering Memorandum, as of the date of this Agreement does not, and as of the Closing Date will not, include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for use therein; it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of the Purchasers consist of the information described as such in paragraph (b) of Section 8 hereof.
     (c) Each of the Company, TW NY and TWE is validly existing as a corporation or limited partnership, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with full corporate or partnership power and authority, as the case may be, under such laws to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, and any amendment or supplement thereto, and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement; and each of the Company, TW NY and TWE is duly qualified to transact business as a foreign corporation or limited partnership, as the case may be, and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases property of a nature, or transacts business of a type, that would make such qualification necessary, except to the extent that the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise (a "Material Adverse Effect").
     (d) Each of the Company's significant subsidiaries, as such term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the Act, is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation or organization, with full power and authority under such laws to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, and is duly qualified to transact business as a foreign limited liability company or partnership and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases property of a nature, or transacts business of a type, that would make such qualification necessary, except to the extent that the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (e) The Company's authorized equity capitalization is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, and any amendment or supplement thereto; and except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package, all of the outstanding capital stock or partnership interests of the Guarantors, as applicable, is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims; all of the issued shares of the Company's Class B Common Stock are owned directly or indirectly by Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner").
 
4
     (f) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, there is no pending or, to our best knowledge, threatened action, suit or proceeding before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties that would (i) materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company or any Guarantor, as appropriate, to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement or the Securities or (ii) would have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (g) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the Company, TW NY and TWE.
     (h) Neither the Company nor any Guarantor is in violation or default of (i) any provision of its charter, bylaws, limited liability company agreement or other organizational documents, (ii) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other material agreement to which it is a party, or (iii) any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or such Guarantor or any of its properties, as applicable, except in the case of clauses (ii) or (iii), for such violations or defaults that would not have a material adverse effect on the performance by the Company of this Agreement or a Material Adverse Effect.
     (i) Assuming the accuracy of, and compliance with, the representation, warranties and agreements of the Purchasers under Section 4 of this Agreement and the compliance by the holders of the Securities with the offering and transfer restrictions set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, no consent, approval, authorization or order of any court or governmental agency or body is required for the authorization, issuance, sale and delivery of the Securities by the Company and the Guarantors or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Registration Rights Agreement, except such as have been or will be obtained under the Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act and such as may be required under the blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Purchasers and such other approvals as have been obtained.
     (j) Assuming the accuracy of, and compliance with, the representations, warranties and agreements of the Purchasers under Section 4 of this Agreement and the compliance by the holders of the Securities with the offering and transfer restrictions set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement by the Company, TW NY and TWE, the issuance, sale and delivery of Debt Securities by the Company, the issuance and delivery of their respective Guarantees by TW NY and TWE, and the consummation by the Company, TW NY and TWE of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement,
 
5
the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and compliance by the Company, TW NY and TWE with the terms of this Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement or the Securities (i) do not and will not result in any violation of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or By-laws, as amended, of the Company or TW NY or the certificate of limited partnership, as amended, or limited partnership agreement, as amended, of TWE, and (ii) do not and will not conflict with, or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or of any Guarantor under (x) any indenture, mortgage or loan agreement, or any other agreement or instrument, to which the Company or any Guarantor is a party or by which any of them may be bound or to which any of their properties may be subject (except for such conflicts, breaches or defaults or liens, charges or encumbrances that would not have a Material Adverse Effect), (y) any existing applicable law, rule or regulation (except for such conflicts, breaches, liens, charges or encumbrances that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and other than the securities or blue sky laws of various jurisdictions), or (z) any judgment, order or decree of any government, governmental instrumentality or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any Guarantor or any of their respective properties (except for such conflicts, breaches, liens, charges or encumbrances that would not have a Material Adverse Effect).
     (k) The documents incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the dates they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
     (l) The Securities will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
     (m) The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, will, at the Closing Date, constitute a legal, valid and binding instrument enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and subject as to enforceability to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); and the Debt Securities and the Exchange Notes have been duly authorized by the Company, and, when the Debt Securities are executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Purchasers pursuant to this Agreement, and, when the Exchange Notes are executed and authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to the holders of the Securities in exchange therefor as contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors'
 
6
rights generally from time to time in effect and subject as to enforceability to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement.
     (n) The Indenture has been duly authorized by each of TW NY and TWE and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by each of TW NY and TWE and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, will, at the Closing Date, constitute a legal, valid and binding instrument enforceable against each of TW NY and TWE in accordance with its terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and subject as to enforceability to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); and the Guarantees have been duly authorized by the Guarantors, and, when the Guarantees are executed and delivered in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Purchasers pursuant to this Agreement, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and subject as to enforceability to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and the Guarantees.
     (o) To the knowledge of the Company, each firm of independent accountants that is reporting upon certain audited or reviewed financial statements and schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum is an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the financial statements covered by the audit or review of such firm, in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Exchange Act and the respective applicable published rules and regulations thereunder.
     (p) The consolidated financial statements, as amended, and the related notes of the Company and any other person included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, other than the consolidated financial statements of Adelphia Communications Corporation and the Special-Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas & Cleveland Cable System Operations (A Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation), present fairly in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the consolidated financial position of the Company, and any such other person, as of the dates indicated and the consolidated results of operations of the Company, and any such other person, and cash flows of each of the Company, and any other such person, for the periods specified. Such financial statements of the Company have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as otherwise noted therein and subject, in the case of interim statements, to normal year-end audit adjustments. The financial statement schedules included or
 
7
incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, other than the financial statement schedules of Adelphia Communications Corporation and the Special-Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas & Cleveland Cable System Operations (A Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation), present fairly in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles the information required to be stated therein. Any supplementary summary financial information or condensed consolidating financial information included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, other than the supplementary summary financial information or condensed consolidating financial information of Adelphia Communications Corporation and the Special-Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas & Cleveland Cable System Operations (A Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation), complies with all applicable accounting requirements and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission. Any pro forma financial information included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum complies with all applicable accounting requirements and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission for such pro forma information. Such pro forma financial information has been properly compiled on the pro forma basis or bases described therein, and, in the opinion of the Company, the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions or circumstances referred to therein.
     (q) None of the Company, TW NY or TWE is an "investment company" or an entity "controlled" by an "investment company", as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     (r) No securities of the same class (within the meaning of Rule 144A(d)(3) under the Act) as the Securities are listed on any national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act or quoted in a U.S. automated inter-dealer quotation system.
     (s) Assuming the accuracy of, and compliance with, the representations, warranties and agreements of the Purchasers in Section 4 of this Agreement and the compliance by the holders of the Securities with the offering and transfer restrictions set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, the offer and sale of the Securities in the manner contemplated by this Agreement is exempt from the registration requirements of the Act; and it is not necessary to qualify the Indenture in respect of the Securities under the Trust Indenture Act.
     (t) Neither the Company, nor any of its affiliates, nor any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Purchasers, as to whom the Company makes no representation) (i) has, within the six-month period prior to the date hereof, offered or sold in the United States or to any U.S. person (as such terms are defined in Regulation S under the Act) the Debt Securities or any security of the same class or series as the Debt Securities or (ii) has offered or will offer or sell the Debt Securities (A) in the United States by means of any form of general solicitation or
 
8
general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) under the Act or (B) with respect to any such securities sold in reliance on Rule 903 or Registration S under the Act, by means of any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Rule 902(c) of Regulation S. The Company, its affiliates and any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Purchasers, as to whom the Company makes no representation) have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
     (u) The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company, TW NY and TWE and, on the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantors. When the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly executed and delivered, the Registration Rights Agreement will be a valid and binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantors, enforceable against the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, subject (i) to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect (ii) as to enforceability to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and (iii) as to rights of indemnification and contributions by principles of public policy or Federal and state securities laws relating thereto. On the Closing Date, the Registration Rights Agreement will conform in all material respects to the description thereof in the Disclosure Package and in the Final Offering Memorandum.
     (v) On the Closing Date, the Indenture, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission applicable to an indenture which is qualified thereunder.
     (w) The Company has been advised by The PORTAL Market ("PORTAL") of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. (the "NASD") that the Debt Securities have been designated PORTAL-eligible in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD.
SM
     (x) The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. To the knowledge of the Company, the Company's and each of its subsidiaries' internal controls over financial reporting are effective and the Company and its subsidiaries are not aware of any material weakness in their internal control over financial reporting.
     (y) The Company and its officers and directors are in compliance in all material respects with applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
 
9
the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith that are effective and applicable to the Company and its officers and directors at the Execution Time.
          2. . Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Purchaser, and each Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company at the purchase price (i) of 99.465% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from April 9, 2007 to the Closing Date, the principal amount of 2012 Notes set forth opposite such Purchaser's name in Schedule I hereto, (ii) of 99.319% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from April 9, 2007 to the Closing Date, the principal amount of 2017 Notes set forth opposite such Purchaser's name in Schedule I hereto and (iii) of 98.481% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from April 9, 2007 to the Closing Date, the principal amount of 2037 Debentures set forth opposite such Purchaser's name in Schedule I hereto.
Purchase and Sale
          3. . Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made on the Closing Date.
Delivery and Payment
          The Company will deliver to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Purchasers against payment of the purchase price the Securities to be offered and sold by the Purchasers in reliance on Regulation S (the "Regulation S Securities") in the form of one or more temporary global Debt Securities in registered form without interest coupons (the "Regulation S Global Securities") which will be deposited with the Trustee as custodian for The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") and registered in the name of its nominee. The Company will deliver against payment of the purchase price the Securities to be purchased by each Purchaser hereunder and to be offered and sold by each Purchaser in reliance on Rule 144A under the Act ("Rule 144A") in the form of one permanent global security in definitive form without interest coupons (the "Restricted Global Securities") deposited with the Trustee as custodian for DTC and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC. The Regulation S Global Securities and the Restricted Global Securities shall be assigned separate CUSIP numbers. The Regulation S Global Securities and the Restricted Global Securities shall include the legend regarding restrictions on transfer set forth under "Notice to Investors" in the Final Offering Memorandum. Interests in any permanent global securities will be held only in book-entry form through DTC, except in the limited circumstances described in the Final Offering Memorandum.
          Payment for the Regulation S Securities and the 144A Securities shall be made by the Purchasers through the Representatives in federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account of the Company or an account as the Company may direct at a bank acceptable to Purchasers, at the office of Shearman & Sterling LLP at 9:00 a.m. (New York time) on the Closing Date, against delivery to the Trustee as custodian for DTC of (i) the Regulation S Global Securities representing all of the Regulation S Securities and (ii) the Restricted Global Securities representing all of the 144A Securities. The Regulation S Global Securities and the Restricted Global Securities will be made available for inspection at the office of Shearman & Sterling LLP at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
 
10
          4. .
Offering by Purchasers
     (a) Each Purchaser will offer the Securities for sale only upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum;
     (b) Each Purchaser is purchasing the Securities pursuant to a private sale exempt from registration under the Act without the intent to distribute the Securities in violation of the Act;
     (c) Each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants that it is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Regulation D under the Act.
     (d) Each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, acknowledges that the Securities have not been registered under the Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except in accordance with Regulation S or otherwise pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act. Each Purchaser severally represents and agrees that it has offered and sold the Securities and will offer and sell the Securities only in accordance with Rule 903 under the Act or Rule 144A. Accordingly, neither such Purchaser nor its affiliates, nor any persons acting on its or their behalf, have engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts with respect to the Securities, and such Purchaser, its affiliates and all persons acting on its or their behalf have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S and Rule 144A. Each Purchaser severally and not jointly, represents and agrees that, at or prior to confirmation of sale of the Securities, other than a sale pursuant to Rule 144A, such Purchaser will have sent to each distributor, dealer or person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration, that purchases the Securities from it during the distribution compliance period (as defined in Regulation S) a confirmation or notice to substantially the following effect:
"The securities covered hereby have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the date of the commencement of the offering and the closing date, except in either case in accordance with Regulation S (or Rule 144A if available) under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S."
Terms used in this subsection (d) have the meanings given to them by Regulation S.
     (e) Each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and agrees that it and each of its affiliates has not entered and will not enter into any contractual arrangement with respect to the distribution of the Securities except for any such arrangements with the other Purchasers or affiliates of the other Purchasers or with the prior written consent of the Company.
 
11
     (f) Each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and agrees that it and each of its affiliates has not offered or sold and will not offer or sell the Securities by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising, within the meaning of Rule 502(c) under the Act, including, but not limited to (i) any advertisement, article, notice or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine or similar media or broadcast over television or radio, or (ii) any seminar or meeting whose attendees have been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising. Each Purchaser severally represents and agrees, with respect to resales made in reliance on Rule 144A of any of the Securities, to deliver either with the confirmation of such resale or otherwise prior to settlement of such resale a notice to the effect that the resale of such Securities has been made in reliance upon the exemption from the registration requirements of the Act provided by Rule 144A.
     (g) Each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and agrees that it and each of its affiliates (i) is a person whose ordinary activities involve it in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or agent) for the purposes of its business and it has not offered or sold and will not offer or sell the Securities other than to persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or as agent) for the purposes of their businesses who it is reasonable to expect will acquire, hold, manage or dispose of investments (as principal or agent) for the purposes of their businesses where the issue of the Securities would otherwise constitute a contravention of Section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ("FSMA") by the Company, (ii) has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of section 21 of the FSMA) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of any Securities in circumstances in which section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company; and (iii) has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Debt Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
     (h) Each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and agrees that it will not offer or sell any securities, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to, or for the benefit of, any resident of Japan (which term as used herein means any person resident in Japan, including any corporation or other entity organized under the laws of Japan), or to others for re-offering or resale, directly or indirectly, in Japan or to a resident of Japan, except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of, and otherwise in compliance with, the Securities and Exchange Law and any other applicable laws, regulations and ministerial guidelines of Japan.
     (i) Each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and agrees that, in relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a "Relevant Member State"), with
 
12
effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State (the "Relevant Implementation Date") it has not made and will not make an offer of debt securities to the public in that Relevant Member State prior to the publication of a prospectus in relation to the Securities which has been approved by the competent authority in that Relevant Member State or, where appropriate, approved in another Relevant Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, all in accordance with the Prospectus Directive, except that it may, with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, make an offer of Securities to the public in that Relevant Member State at any time (i) to legal entities which are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities; (ii) to any legal entity which has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 43,000,000 and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 0,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated accounts; or (iii) in any other circumstances which do not require the publication by the Company of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive. For the purposes of this provision, the expression an "offer of debt securities to the public" in relation to any debt securities in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the debt securities to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe the debt securities, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State.
     (j) Each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and agrees that it and each of its affiliates has not (i) offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, in Hong Kong, by means of any document, the Securities other than (a) to "professional investors" as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) of Hong Kong and any rules made under that Ordinance or (b) in other circumstances which do not result in the document being a "prospectus" as defined in the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32) of Hong Kong or which do not constitute and offer to the public within the meaning of that Ordinance or (ii) issued or had in its possession for the purposes of issue, and will not issue or have in its possession for the purposes of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, any advertisement, invitation or document relating to the Securities which is directed at, or the contents of which are likely to be accessed or read by, the public in Hong Kong (except if permitted to do so, under the securities laws of Hong Kong) other than with respect to the Securities which are or are intended to be disposed of only to persons outside Hong Kong or only to "professional investors" as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance and any rules made under that Ordinance.
          5. . The Company and the Guarantors agree with the several Purchasers that:
Agreements
 
13
     (a) Prior to the termination of the offering of the Securities, none of the Company, TW NY and TWE will amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum unless the Company or a Guarantor has furnished you a copy of such supplement or amendment for your review and the Representatives have not reasonably objected to such amendment or supplement in a timely manner.
     (b) The Company will prepare a final term sheet, containing solely a description of the Securities, in the form attached hereto as Schedules II, III and IV.
     (c) If there occurs an event or development as a result of which the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum would include an untrue statement of a material fact or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances then prevailing, not misleading, the Company (i) will notify promptly the Representatives so that any use of the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum may cease until it is amended or supplemented and (ii) will promptly prepare, at its own expense, an amendment or supplement which will correct such misstatement or omission.
     (d) The proceeds of the offering of the Securities will be applied as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
     (e) The Company, TW NY and TWE will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Purchasers, without charge, copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, each other document comprising part of the Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum (including all amendments and supplements thereto), in each case, as soon as reasonably available and in such quantities as the Representatives shall reasonably request.
     (f) The Company and the Guarantors will arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of each series of Securities for distribution, offering and sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate, will maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution of such series of Securities and will arrange for the determination of the legality of the Securities for purchase by institutional investors; , , that none of the Company, TW NY or TWE shall be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 5(f), (ii) file any general consent to service of process or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not so subject.
provided
however
     (g) The Company agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and each Purchaser, severally and not jointly, agrees with the Company that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute a Free Writing Communication, other than information contained in the final term sheet prepared pursuant to Section 5(b) hereto; provided that the prior written consent of the parties hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of the Free Writing
 
14
Communication included in Schedules II, III and IV hereto. Any such free writing communication consented to by the Representatives or the Company, as the case may be, is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Communication."
     (h) None of the Company, its affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf will, directly or indirectly, make offers or sales of any security, or solicit offers to buy any security, under circumstances that would require the registration of the Securities under the Act.
     (i) None of the Company, its affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf will engage in any directed selling efforts (within the meaning of Regulation S) with respect to the Securities; and each of them will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S.
     (j) None of the Company, its affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf will engage in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in connection with any offer or sale of the Securities in the United States.
     (k) During the period of two years after the Closing Date, the Company will not, and will not permit any of its affiliates (as defined in Rule 144 under the Act) to, resell any of the Securities which constitute "restricted securities" under Rule 144 that have been reacquired by any of them, unless (i) such Securities are sold pursuant to a registration statement which is effective under the Act or (ii) such Securities are sold accompanied by an opinion of counsel that the buyer of such Securities is acquiring freely tradable securities.
     (l) During the period of two years after the Closing Date, the Company will not be or become an open-end investment company, unit investment trust or face-amount certificate company that is or is required to be registered under Section 8 of the Investment Company Act.
     (m) The Company will pay all expenses incidental to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement including (i) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee, in connection with the Indenture and the Securities; (ii) all expenses in connection with the initial delivery of the Securities and, as applicable, the Exchange Notes to the Purchasers, the preparation, printing and distribution of this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Securities, the Indenture, the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, any other documents comprising any part of the Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum, all amendments and supplements thereto; (iii) the cost of qualifying the Offered Securities for trading in the Portal Market and any expenses incidental thereto; (iv) any reasonable expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) incurred in connection with qualification of the Securities or the Exchange Notes for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives of the Purchasers designate and the printing of memoranda relating thereto; (v) any fees charged by investment rating agencies for the rating of the Securities; (vi) the costs and charges of any transfer agent and registrar; and (vii) the costs of qualifying the Securities with DTC.
 
15
     (n) In connection with the offering of the Securities, until the Representatives on behalf of the Purchasers shall have notified the Company of the completion of the resale of the Securities, neither the Company nor any of its affiliates (other than the Purchasers or their affiliates as to which the Company makes no agreement) has or will, either alone or with one or more other persons, bid for or purchase, for any account in which it or any of its affiliates has a beneficial interest, any Securities or attempt to induce any person to purchase any Securities; and neither it nor any of its affiliates (other than the Purchasers or their affiliates as to which the Company makes no agreement) will make bids or purchases for the purpose of creating actual, or apparent, active trading in, or of raising the price of, the Securities.
     (o) The Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Debt Securities to become qualified for trading in the PORTAL Market.
          6. . The obligations of the Purchasers to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy in all material respects of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company and the Guarantors contained herein as of the Execution Time and the Closing Date, to the accuracy in all material respects of the statements of the Company and the Guarantors made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by each of the Company, TW NY and TWE of its obligations hereunder, to the due execution and delivery of the Indenture, to the absence of any event or condition which would give you the right to terminate this Agreement and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Purchasers
     (a) At the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to you the opinion of the General Counsel to the Company, or an Associate or Deputy General Counsel to the Company that practices in the area of corporate and securities law, dated the Closing Date, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
     (b) At the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to you the opinion and statement of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, counsel to the Company and the Guarantors, each dated the Closing Date, substantially in the form of Exhibit B and Exhibit C hereto, respectively;
     (c) At the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Purchasers, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum (together with any supplement thereto), any Company Free Writing Communications and other related matters as the Representatives may reasonably require, and the Company and the Guarantors shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
 
16
     (d) (1) The Company shall have furnished to the Representatives a certificate of the Company, signed by any two officers who are an Executive or Senior Vice President of the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have examined the Disclosure Package, the Final Offering Memorandum and any supplements or amendments to any of the foregoing and this Agreement and that:
     (i) the representations and warranties of the Company, TW NY and TWE in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date and each of the Company, TW NY and TWE has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date.
     (ii) since the date of the most recent financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), the Company has made all filings with the Commission and announcements, in either case required to be made by the Act or the Exchange Act.
     (2) TW NY shall have furnished to the Representatives a certificate of TW NY, signed by any two officers who are Vice Presidents of TW NY, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have examined the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and any supplement or amendments thereto and that the representations and warranties of TW NY in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date and TW NY has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date.
     (3) TWE shall have furnished to the Representatives a certificate of TWE, signed by any two officers, one of whom is an Executive or Senior Vice President of TWE, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have examined the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and any supplement or amendments thereto and that the representations and warranties of TWE in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date and TWE has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date.
     (e) The Representatives shall have received from (A) Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for the Company and (B) Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for Comcast, at the Execution Time and at the Closing Date, letters, dated as of the Execution Time and as of the Closing Date, as the case may be, in form and
 
17
substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountant's "comfort letters" to underwriters, delivered according to Statement of Auditing Standards No. 72 (or any successor bulletin), with respect to the audited, unaudited, pro forma and special purpose carve-out financial statements, as applicable, and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum; and (ii) the Purchasers shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for Adelphia, at the Execution Time and at the Closing Date, letters, dated as of the Execution Time and as of the Closing Date, as the case may be, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountant's "comfort letters" to underwriters, delivered according to Statement of Auditing Standards No. 72 (or any successor bulletin), with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements of Adelphia contained or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum.
     (f) Subsequent to the Execution Time or, if earlier, the dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), there shall not have been (i) any decrease or increase specified in the letter or letters referred to in paragraph (e) of this Section 6 or (ii) any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting the business (including the results of operations or management) or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto) the effect of which, in any case referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above, is, in the reasonable judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of any series of Securities as contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto).
     (g) Subsequent to the Execution Time, (i) there shall not have been any downgrade in the credit ratings of any of the Company's, TW NY's or TWE's debt securities by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. or Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, and (ii) none of the Company, TW NY or TWE shall have been placed under special surveillance, with negative implications, by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. or Standard & Poor's Ratings Group.
     (h) At the Closing Date, the Company and the Guarantors shall have executed and delivered the Registration Rights Agreement.
     (i) At the Closing Date, the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee shall have executed and delivered the Indenture.
     (j) Prior to the Closing Date, the Company and the Guarantors shall have furnished to the Representatives such further information, certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
 
18
          If any of the conditions specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled in all material respects when and as provided in this Agreement, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be in all material respects reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Purchasers, this Agreement and all obligations of the Purchasers hereunder may be canceled at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Representatives and such cancellation shall be without liability of any party to any other party, except to the extent provided in Sections 5 and 7. Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
          7. . If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Purchasers set forth in Section 6 hereof is not satisfied or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company, TW NY or TWE to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Purchasers, the Company and the Guarantors will reimburse the Purchasers severally upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities.
Reimbursement of Purchasers' Expenses
          8. . (a) Each of the Company, TW NY and TWE agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Purchaser, the directors, officers, employees and agents of each Purchaser and each person who controls any Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Preliminary Offering Memorandum, any Company Free Writing Communication, the Final Offering Memorandum, the Disclosure Package, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that none of the Company, TW NY or TWE will be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company, TW NY and TWE by or on behalf of any Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company, TW NY or TWE may otherwise have.
Indemnification and Contribution
provided
however
          (b) Each Purchaser severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Company, TW NY and TWE, each of their respective directors, each of their
 
19
respective officers and each person who controls the Company, TW NY or TWE within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company, TW NY and TWE to each Purchaser, but only with reference to written information relating to such Purchaser furnished to the Company, TW NY and TWE by or on behalf of such Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which any Purchaser may otherwise have. Each of the Company, TW NY and TWE acknowledges that (i) the statements set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum in (1) the paragraph of the cover page regarding the delivery of the Securities and (2) the syndicate covering transactions and stabilizing transactions paragraphs under the caption "Plan of Distribution" and (ii) any information furnished by the Purchasers for inclusion in any Company Free Writing Communications, constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the several Purchasers for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity, and you, as the Representatives, confirm that such statements are correct.
          (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including separate local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest, (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that in connection with such action, the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (in addition to local counsel) in any one action or separate but substantially similar actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action or actions), (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have
provided
however
 
20
employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, effect any settlement or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding. No indemnifying party shall be liable for any settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of judgment with respect to, any claim, action, suit or proceeding affected without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
          (d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 8 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company, TW NY, TWE and the Purchasers severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively "Losses") to which the Company, the Guarantors and one or more of the Purchasers may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, TW NY and TWE on one hand, and by the Purchasers, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities; , , that in no case shall any Purchaser (except as may be provided in any agreement among Purchasers relating to the offering of the Securities) be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Purchaser hereunder. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company, TW NY, TWE and the Purchasers severally shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and of the Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses), and benefits received by the Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, in each case as set forth on the cover page of the Final Offering Memorandum. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company, TW NY or TWE on the one hand or the Purchasers on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company, the Guarantors and the Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not
provided
however
 
21
guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 8, each person who controls an Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of an Purchaser shall have the same rights to contribution as such Purchaser, and each person who controls the Company, TW NY or TWE within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer and director of the Company, TW NY or TWE shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company and the Guarantors, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
     9. . If any one or more Purchasers shall fail on the Closing Date to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Purchaser or Purchasers hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Purchasers shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions for each of the Securities which such Purchaser failed to purchase which the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule I hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Purchasers) the Securities which the defaulting Purchaser or Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase; provided, however, that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Purchaser or Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule I hereto, the remaining Purchasers shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Purchasers do not purchase all of the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Purchaser or the Company and the Guarantors. In the event of a default by any Purchaser as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding seven days, as the Representatives and the Company shall determine in order that the required changes in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Purchaser of its liability, if any, to the Company, the Guarantors and any nondefaulting Purchaser for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
Default by a Purchaser
     10. . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if prior to such time (i) trading in the Company's Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share, or any of the Company's, TW NY's or TWE's debt securities shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on such exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum or maximum prices shall have been established on such exchange, or maximum ranges for prices for securities have been required, by such exchange or by order of the Commission or any other governmental authority, (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by Federal or New York State authorities or (iii) there shall have occurred any new outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets of the United States is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of a series of Securities as contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum
Termination
 
22
(exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 10, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party, except to the extent provided in Sections 5 and 7.
          11. . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company, TW NY or TWE or any of their respective officers and of the Purchasers set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Purchaser or the Company, TW NY or TWE, or any of the officers, directors or controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
          12. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, (i) if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to and confirmed to them at Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich St., New York, NY 10013  Fax (212) 816-7912  Attention: General Counsel; ABN AMRO Incorporated, Park Avenue Plaza, 55 East 52nd Street, New York, NY 10055  Attention: Legal Department; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., 60 Wall Street, New York, NY 10005  Fax (212) 797-2202  Attention: Debt Capital Markets; and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, One Wachovia Center, DC-6 (NC0613), 301 South College Street, Charlotte, NC 28288-0602  Fax (704) 383-0661- Attention: Syndicate Department; or, (ii) if sent to the Company, TW NY or TWE, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to (203) 328-4094 and confirmed to it at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, Connecticut 06902-7441  Attention: General Counsel.
Notices
          13. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
          14. . This Agreement constitutes an agreement solely among the parties hereto, and, except as expressly provided in the last sentence of Section 8(d), is not intended to and shall not confer any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities, legal or equitable, on any person other than the parties hereto and their successors or assigns or otherwise constitute any person a third party beneficiary under or by reason of this Agreement.
Third Party Beneficiaries
          15. . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Applicable Law
          16. . This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
Counterparts
          17. . Each of the Company, TW NY and TWE hereby acknowledges that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, TW NY and
No Fiduciary Duty
 
23
TWE on the one hand, and the Purchasers and any affiliate through which any such Purchaser may be acting, on the other, (b) the Purchasers are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Company, TW NY and TWE and (c) each of the Company's, TW NY's and TWE's engagement of the Purchasers in connection with the offering and the process leading up to the offering is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, each of the Company, TW NY and TWE agrees that it is solely responsible for making its own judgments in connection with the offering (irrespective of whether any of the Purchasers has advised or is currently advising the Company on related or other matters). Each of the Company, TW NY and TWE agrees that it will not claim that the Purchasers have rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, TW NY or TWE , in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
          18. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company, TW NY, TWE and the Purchasers, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
          19. . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
          20. . The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
     "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
     "Business Day" shall mean any day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading.
     "Closing Date" shall mean April 9, 2007, which date and time may be postponed to a date not later than five Business Days after such specified date by agreement between the Representatives, acting jointly and without regard to any agreement among the Purchasers and the Company.
     "Commission" shall mean the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
     "Company Free Writing Communication" shall mean a Free Writing Communication prepared by or on behalf of the Company, used or referred to by the Company or containing a description of the final terms of the Securities or of their offering, in the form retained in the Company's records and in each case approved by the Company for use.
     "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, as amended and supplemented to the Execution Time, (ii) the Company Free Writing Communications, if any, identified on Schedules II, III and IV hereto and (iii) any other Free Writing Communications that each of the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and listed on Schedule V hereto.
 
24
     "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
     "Execution Time" shall mean the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto.
     "Free Writing Communication" shall mean a written communication (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Act) that constitutes an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities and is made by means other than the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Final Offering Memorandum.
     "Rule 158", " Rule 163", "Rule 164", "Rule 172", "Rule 405", "Rule 424", "Rule 430B" and "Rule 433" refer to such rules or regulations under the Act.
     "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
 
25
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company, TW NY, TWE and the several Purchasers.
Signature Page: Purchase Agreement
 
26
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date specified in Schedule I hereto.
For themselves and the other several Purchasers, if any, named in Schedule I to the foregoing Agreement.
Signature Page: Purchase Agreement
 
27
 
28
 
29
 
30
 
31
 
32
 
33
 
34
EXHIBIT A
 
35
 
36
As Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of the Company, such counsel has reviewed and participated in the preparation of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, including the documents incorporated by reference therein (except for the financial statements and other information of a financial or statistical nature of Adelphia Communications Corporation ("Adelphia") and Comcast Corporation, including the financial statements of Adelphia and the Special-Purpose Combined Carve-out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas & Cleveland Cable System Operations (A Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation) that are incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum. In examining the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, such counsel has necessarily assumed the correctness and completeness of the statements made or included therein by the Company and the Guarantors, including the documents incorporated by reference therein and takes no responsibility therefor. However, in the course of the preparation by the Company and the Guarantors of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, such counsel has participated in conferences with certain officers of, and accountants for, the Company and the Guarantors with respect thereto, and such counsel's examination of the Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, including the documents incorporated by reference therein and such counsel's participation in the above-mentioned conferences did not disclose any information which gave such counsel reason to believe that: (i) as of 5:44 p.m. on April 4, 2007 (the "Applicable Time"), the Disclosure Package (except for the financial statements, financial statement schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom or from those documents incorporated by reference, as to which such counsel expresses no such belief), contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (ii) the Final Offering Memorandum as of its date or at the Closing Date (except for the financial statements, financial statement schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom or from those documents incorporated by reference, as to which such counsel expresses no such belief) included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
37
EXHIBIT B
 
38
 
39
 
40
 
EXECUTION COPY
EXHIBIT C
In the course of acting as special counsel to the Company in connection with the offering of the Debt Securities, such counsel has participated in conferences and telephone conversations with officers and other representatives of the Company and the independent registered public accountants for the Company during which conferences and conversations the contents of the Disclosure Package (as defined below), the Final Offering Memorandum and related matters were discussed. Based upon such participation (and relying as to factual matters on officers, employees and other representatives of the Company and its subsidiaries), such counsel hereby advises you that our work in connection with this matter did not disclose any information that gave such counsel reason to believe that (i) as of 5:44 p.m. on April 4, 2007 (the "Applicable Time"), the Disclosure Package (except for the financial statements, financial statement schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom or from those documents incorporated by reference, in each case, as to which such counsel expresses no such belief), included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or (ii) at the date the Final Offering Memorandum was issued or at the Closing Date, the Final Offering Memorandum (except for the financial statements, financial statement schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom or from those documents incorporated by reference, as to which such counsel expresses no such belief) included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. For purposes of this letter, the term "Disclosure Package" means (i) the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and (ii) the Company Free Writing Communications identified on Schedules II, III, IV and V to this Agreement.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
April 05, 2007
STAMFORD, Conn.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) announced that it has priced an offering of its debt securities, consisting of $1.5 billion principal amount of 5.40% notes due 2012, $2 billion principal amount of 5.85% notes due 2017 and $1.5 billion principal amount of 6.55% debentures due 2037. The debt securities will be issued by Time Warner Cable Inc. and guaranteed by TW NY Cable Holding Inc. and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., each a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable.
Time Warner Cable intends to use the net proceeds from the issuance of the debt securities to repay a portion of its outstanding bank indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. The offering of the debt securities is expected to close on or about April 9, 2007.
The offering is being made solely by means of a private placement either to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or to certain persons in offshore transactions pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.
The debt securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and the debt securities may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any security in any jurisdiction in which such offering, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological and/or regulatory factors, sales of business assets, and the potential impact of future decisions by management that may result in merger and restructuring charges, as well as the potential impact of any future impairment charges to goodwill or other intangible assets. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Time Warner Cable Inc. Mark Harrad, 203-328-0613 or Tom Robey, 203-351-2015
Contacts
Corporate Communications:
Investor Relations:

 
Exhibit 99.2
April 9, 2007
STAMFORD, Conn.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) announced today that it has completed an offering of its debt securities, consisting of $1.5 billion principal amount of 5.40% notes due 2012, $2 billion principal amount of 5.85% notes due 2017 and $1.5 billion principal amount of 6.55% debentures due 2037. The debt securities were issued by Time Warner Cable Inc. and guaranteed by TW NY Cable Holding Inc. and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., each a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable.
     Time Warner Cable intends to use the net proceeds from the issuance of the debt securities to repay a portion of its outstanding bank indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.
     The offering was made solely by means of a private placement either to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or to certain persons in offshore transactions pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.
     The debt securities have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and the debt securities may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
     This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any security in any jurisdiction in which such offering, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
     This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological and/or regulatory factors, sales of business assets, and the potential impact of future decisions by management that may result in merger and restructuring charges, as well as the potential impact of any future impairment charges to goodwill or other intangible assets. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts


