FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20071108173431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
_______________
 
FORM
 
8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): November 5, 2007
 
TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
North Tower, One Time Warner Center, New York, New York 10019
(Address of principal executive
offices)
          
(Zip
Code)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (212) 364-8200 
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last
report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 5, 2007, John K. Martin, Jr. gave Time Warner Cable Inc. (the Company) notice of his resignation as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective December 31, 2007.
On November 5, 2007, the Companys Board of Directors elected Robert D. Marcus to the position of Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective January 1, 2008.
Mr. Marcus, age 42, joined the Company as Senior Executive Vice President in August 2005, with a broad portfolio of responsibilities, including oversight of the Companys mergers and acquisitions, programming, legal, human resources and business affairs functions. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Marcus served as Senior Vice President, Mergers and Acquisitions at Time Warner Inc. from 2002. Mr. Marcus joined Time Warner Inc. in 1998 as Vice President of Mergers and Acquisitions. Time Warner Inc. currently owns approximately 84.0% of the common stock of the Company (representing a 90.6% voting interest) and consolidates the Companys financial results.
A copy of the Companys press release dated November 6, 2007, announcing Mr. Martins resignation and Mr. Marcus appointment, is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
        
                     99.1       Press Release dated November 6, 2007 issued by Time Warner Cable Inc.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
 
 
General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                  
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
ROB MARCUS NAMED CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OF TIME WARNER CABLE
 
NEW YORK, NY
November 6, 2007
--Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today announced the appointment of Robert D. Marcus as Chief Financial Officer effective January 1, 2008.
 
In his new role, Marcus will retain the title of Senior Executive Vice President and continue to direct Time Warner Cables mergers and acquisitions, programming, human resources and business affairs departments and will add responsibility for all of the Companys financial functions, including accounting, financial planning and analysis, tax, treasury and investor relations. John K. Martin, Jr., who has served as Time Warner Cables CFO since August 2005, will vacate that post to become CFO at Time Warner Inc. (NYSE: TWX) at the beginning of the new year.
 
Rob is a seasoned executive and proven leader with a broad and deep understanding of our business, said Glenn Britt, President and Chief Executive Officer of Time Warner Cable. Widely recognized as a talented dealmaker, Robs contributions to Time Warner Cable have been more far reaching. He has participated in all of our significant business decisions over the last two-plus years and is well respected both within our industry and on Wall Street for his judgment and financial acumen. I am extremely pleased Rob will take on the pivotal CFO role at Time Warner Cable.
 
Marcus said: I look forward to continuing to work with Glenn Britt and Landel Hobbs and the rest of our outstanding team in this new capacity. I am excited about our business
 
 
opportunities ahead and aim to build upon the strong financial organization that John put in place. I remain committed to unlocking the full potential and value of our company for shareholders and look upon my expanded responsibilities as additional tools to get that job done.
 
Commenting on Martins service, Britt added: As CFO, John has played an important role in guiding us through our first nine months as a public company. He has built an exceptionally strong finance team here at Time Warner Cable, which should help ensure a seamless transition. We are indebted to John for his exceptional contributions and wish him well in his new role at Time Warner Inc.
 
Martin said: Working with Glenn, Landel and Rob has been a terrific experience and has prepared me well for my new role at Time Warner Inc. I have every confidence that this leadership team will successfully drive the company forward to achieve its goals. Rob is an enormously talented executive and has earned a stellar reputation on Wall Street. He will bring new insights from his broad business experience to the CFO role and I feel good about leaving the financial leadership of this Company in such capable hands.
 
Marcus joined Time Warner Cable as Senior Executive Vice President in August 2005, with a broad portfolio of responsibilities, including oversight of the Companys mergers and acquisitions, programming, legal, human resources and business affairs functions.
 
Prior to joining Time Warner Cable, Marcus served as Senior Vice President, Mergers and Acquisitions for Time Warner Inc., having served in various executive capacities with the parent company since 1998. In that role, Marcus was the architect and lead negotiator of numerous transactions for Time Warner Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Time Warner Cables acquisition of Adelphia Communications Corp. and related transactions with Comcast Corporation which took place last year.
 
 
 
 
Earlier, Marcus practiced law at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, where he was one of Time Warner Inc.s principal outside corporate counsels.
 
Marcus received a J.D. from Columbia Law School in 1990, where he was a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar and editor of the
Columbia Law Review.
He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Brown University in 1987.
 
Marcus serves on the board of New Alternatives for Children, a New York City based non-profit agency.
 
He lives with his wife and four children in Short Hills, NJ.
 
Contacts:
Corporate Communications
Mark Harrad, 212.364.8203
Maureen Huff, 212.364.8206
 
###
 
 
 
 


