FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20070213061952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Form 8-K
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
On July 31, 2006, we completed the acquisition of a significant portion of the assets of Adelphia Communications Corporation ("ACC") and its subsidiaries (together with ACC, "Adelphia"), which is currently in bankruptcy. As partial consideration for the acquisition, we issued Adelphia approximately 149 million shares of our Class A common stock and approximately 6.1 million shares were issued into escrow. We are filing this Current Report on in order to provide business, financial and other information about us in connection with the distribution by Adelphia of the Class A common stock it received in the acquisition to its creditors in accordance with Adelphia's plan of reorganization under chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code"). The distribution of our Class A common stock by Adelphia is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to section 1145(a) of the Bankruptcy Code. The shares of our Class A common stock distributed by Adelphia in reliance on the exemption provided by section 1145(a) of the Bankruptcy Code will be freely tradable without restriction or further registration pursuant to the resale provisions of section 1145(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, subject to certain exceptions.
Form 8-K
 
In accordance with Adelphia's plan of reorganization, Adelphia expects that it will begin distributing the shares of our Class A common stock that it holds to its creditors after the effectiveness of its plan of reorganization, which occurred today. Our Class A common stock has been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TWC. We expect that our Class A common stock will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange in late February or early March 2007. Additionally, some of the shares of our Class A common stock held by Adelphia will not be immediately distributed but rather, in accordance with Adelphia's plan of reorganization, will be distributed to Adelphia's creditors in a number of months.
 
Pursuant to under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), we are the successor issuer to ACC for reporting purposes under the Exchange Act and our Class A common stock is deemed to be registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.
Rule 12g-3(a)
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
 
Except as the context otherwise requires, references in this Current Report on to "TWC," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us" are to Time Warner Cable Inc. and references to "Time Warner" are to our parent corporation, Time Warner Inc. Some of the statements in this Current Report on are forward-looking statements. For more information, please see "BusinessCaution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements."
Form 8-K
Form 8-K
 
Except as the context otherwise requires, references to information being "pro forma" or "on a pro forma basis" mean after giving effect to the transactions with Adelphia Communications Corporation ("ACC") and its affiliates and subsidiaries (together with ACC, "Adelphia") and Comcast Corporation and its affiliates ("Comcast"), the dissolution of Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P. ("TKCCP"), the distribution of a portion of TKCCP's assets to us and the other transactions described in our unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements contained herein. See "Financial InformationUnaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information." References to information presented as "legacy" or "on a legacy basis," mean, for all periods presented, our operations and systems (1) excluding the systems and subscribers that we transferred to Comcast in connection with the transactions, (2) excluding the systems and subscribers that we acquired in the transactions with Adelphia and Comcast and (3) with respect to subscriber data, including our consolidated entities and only those subscribers in the Kansas City Pool (as defined below) of TKCCP's cable systems. Unless otherwise specified, references to our systems and operations cover our consolidated systems and the Kansas City Pool. When we refer to revenue generating units ("RGUs"), we mean the sum of all of our analog video, digital video, high-speed data and voice subscribers. Therefore, a subscriber who purchases all four of these services would represent four RGUs.
 
 
Industry and market data used throughout this Current Report on were obtained through company research, surveys and studies conducted by third parties, and general industry publications. The information contained in "BusinessOur Industry" is based on studies, analyses and surveys of the cable television, high-speed Internet access and telephone industries and its customers prepared by the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, Forrester Research and International Data Corporation. We have not independently verified any of the data from third party sources nor have we ascertained any underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein. While we are not aware of any misstatements regarding the industry data presented herein, estimates involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed under the heading "Risk Factors."
Form 8-K
Table of Contents
 
 
Overview
 
We are the second-largest cable operator in the United States and an industry leader in developing and launching innovative video, data and voice services. We deliver our services to customers over technologically-advanced, well-clustered cable systems that, as of September 30, 2006, passed approximately 26 million U.S. homes. Approximately 85% of these homes were located in one of five principal geographic areas: New York state, the Carolinas (i.e., North Carolina and South Carolina), Ohio, southern California and Texas. We are currently the largest cable system operator in a number of large cities, including New York City and Los Angeles. As of September 30, 2006, we had over 14.6 million customer relationships through which we provided one or more of our services.
 
We have a long history of leadership within our industry and were the first or among the first cable operators to offer high-speed data service, telephony service and a range of advanced digital video services, such as ("VOD"), high definition television ("HDTV") and set-top boxes equipped with digital video recorders ("DVRs"). We believe our ability to introduce new products and services provides an important competitive advantage and is one of the factors that has led to advanced services penetration rates and revenue growth rates that have been higher than cable industry averages over the last few years. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 7.0 million (or 52%) of our 13.4 million basic video customers subscribed to our digital video services; 6.4 million (or 25%) of our high-speed data service-ready homes subscribed to our residential high-speed data service; and 1.6 million (or nearly 11%) of our voice service-ready homes subscribed to Digital Phone, our newest service, which we launched broadly during 2004. As of September 30, 2006, in our legacy systems, approximately 54% of our 9.5 million basic video customers subscribed to our digital video services and 29% of our high-speed data service-ready homes subscribed to our residential high-speed data service. We have been able to increase our average monthly subscription revenue (which includes video, high-speed data and voice revenues) per basic video subscriber ("subscription ARPU"), driven in large part through the expansion of our service offerings. In the quarter ended September 30, 2006, our subscription ARPU was approximately $90, which we believe was above the cable industry average. In our legacy systems, our subscription ARPU increased to approximately $93 in the third quarter of 2006 from approximately $70 for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. This represents an increase of 33% and a compound annual growth rate of 12%. In addition to consumer subscription services, we also provide communications services to commercial customers and sell advertising time to a variety of national, regional and local businesses.
IP-based
video-on-demand
 
Our business benefits greatly from increasing penetration of multiple services and, as a result, we continue to create and aggressively market desirable bundles of services to existing and potential customers. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 40% of our customers purchased two or more of our video, high-speed data and Digital Phone services, and approximately 8% purchased all three of these services. As of September 30, 2006, in our legacy systems, approximately 44% of our customers purchased two or more of our services and approximately 13% purchased all three. We believe that offering our customers desirable bundles of services results in greater revenue and reduced customer churn.
 
Consistent with our strategy of growing through disciplined and opportunistic acquisitions, on July 31, 2006, we completed a number of transactions with Adelphia and Comcast, which resulted in a net increase of 7.6 million homes passed and 3.2 million basic video subscribers served by our cable systems. As of September 30, 2006, homes passed in the systems acquired from Adelphia and Comcast represented approximately 36% of our total homes passed. These transactions provide us with increased scale and have enhanced the clustering of our already well-clustered systems. As of September 30, 2006, penetration rates for basic video services and advanced services were generally lower in the acquired systems than in our legacy systems. We believe that many of the systems we acquired from Adelphia and Comcast will benefit from the skills of our management team and from the introduction of our advanced service offerings, including telephony service, which was not available to the subscribers in these systems prior to closing. Therefore, we have an opportunity to improve the financial results of these systems.
IP-based
Table of Contents
Recent Developments
 
Transactions with Adelphia and Comcast
 
On July 31, 2006, we completed the following transactions with Adelphia and Comcast:
 
 
For additional information regarding the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange (collectively, the "Transactions"), see "The Transactions."
 
In connection with the Transactions, immediately after the closing of the Redemptions but prior to the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, we paid a stock dividend to holders of record of our Class A and Class B common stock of 999,999 shares of Class A or Class B common stock, respectively, per share of Class A or Class B common stock held at that time. For additional information, see "Market Price of and Dividends on the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder MattersDividends."
 
The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a taxable acquisition of assets that would result in a tax basis in the acquired assets equal to the purchase price we paid. The resulting in the tax basis of the assets would increase future tax deductions, reduce future net cash tax payments and thereby increase our future cash flows. See "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionBusiness Transactions and DevelopmentsTax Benefits from the Transactions."
step-up
 
TKCCP Dissolution
 
TKCCP, a joint venture between us and Comcast, which, as of September 30, 2006, served approximately 1.6 million basic video subscribers throughout Houston, Kansas City, south and west Texas and New Mexico is in the process of being dissolved. In connection with the pending dissolution, on January 1, 2007, TKCCP distributed its assets to its partners. We received TKCCP's cable systems in Kansas City, south and west Texas and New Mexico (referred to in this Current Report on as the "Kansas City Pool"), which collectively served approximately 782,000 basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006, and Comcast received the Houston cable systems (the "Houston Pool"). Comcast has refinanced the debt of TKCCP. We have not and will not assume any debt of TKCCP in connection with the distribution of TKCCP's assets or the dissolution. See "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionBusiness Transactions and DevelopmentsJoint Venture Dissolution."
50-50
Form 8-K
 
Corporate Structure and Other Information
 
Although we and our predecessors have been in the cable business for over 30 years in various legal forms, Time Warner Cable Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation on March 21, 2003. Our principal executive offices are located at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902. Our telephone number is and our corporate website is www.timewarnercable.com. The information on our website is not part of this Current Report on
(203) 328-0600
Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
The following chart illustrates our corporate structure after giving effect to the Transactions, the dissolution of TKCCP and the distribution of a portion of its assets to us, but before giving effect to distribution of the shares of our Class A common stock by Adelphia to certain of its creditors. The subscriber numbers, long-term debt and preferred equity balances presented below are approximate as of September 30, 2006. The guarantee structure reflected below gives effect to certain transactions completed during the fourth quarter of 2006. Certain intermediate entities and certain preferred interests held by us or our subsidiaries are not reflected. The subscriber counts within each entity indicate the number of basic video subscribers attributable to cable systems owned by such entity. Basic video subscriber amounts reflect billable subscribers who receive our basic video service.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Our Industry
 
As the marketplace for basic video services has matured, the cable industry has responded by introducing new services, including enhanced video services like HDTV and VOD, high-speed Internet access and telephony. We believe these advanced services have resulted in improved customer satisfaction, increased customer spending and retention. We expect the demand for these and other advanced services to increase.
IP-based
 
According to a Forrester Research report dated February 2005, the number of HDTV sets in the U.S. is estimated to be approximately 23 million at the end of 2006 and is forecasted to more than double over the next three years. The increasingly wide variety of content made available via VOD, high definition and programming, along with the proliferation of DVRs, is driving customer demand for advanced video services.
Pay-Per-View
 
Bandwidth-intensive online applications, such as file sharing, gaming, and music and video downloading and streaming, are driving demand for reliable high-speed data services. Currently, high-speed data penetration in the United States is relatively low compared with some other industrialized countries and has the potential to grow. International Data Corporation estimated that as of year end 2006, high-speed data penetration in the U.S. would reach approximately 36% of all households, compared to penetration rates of approximately 56% and 51% in Canada and The Netherlands, respectively.
peer-to-peer
 
telephony service, such as our Digital Phone, is proving to be an attractive low-cost, high quality alternative to traditional telephone service as provided by incumbent local telephone companies. The cable industry already provides this service to over four million subscribers as of September 30, 2006. However, telephony penetration is relatively low and we believe there is significant opportunity for growth.
IP-based
IP-based
 
We believe the cable industry is better-positioned than competing industries to widely offer a bundle of advanced services, including video, high-speed data and voice, over a single provider's facilities. For example:
 
 
AT&T Inc. ("AT&T") and Verizon Communications, Inc. ("Verizon") are in the process of building new ("FTTH") or ("FTTN") networks in an attempt to offer customers a product bundle comparable to those offered today by cable companies, but these advanced service offerings will not be broadly available for a number of years. Meanwhile, we expect the cable industry will benefit from its existing offerings while continuing to innovate and introduce new services.
fiber-to-the-home
fiber-to-the-node
 
Our Strengths
 
We benefit from the following competitive strengths:
 
Our advanced cable infrastructure is the foundation of our business, enabling us to provide our customers with a compelling suite of products and services, regularly introduce new services and features and pursue new business opportunities. We believe our legacy cable infrastructure is sufficiently flexible and adaptable to satisfy all current and near-term product requirements, as well as allow us to meet increased subscriber demand, without the need for significant system upgrades. Furthermore, because our infrastructure is engineered to accommodate future capacity enhancements in a cost-efficient, as-needed manner, we believe that the long-term capabilities of our network are functionally comparable to those of proposed or emerging FTTH or FTTN networks of the telephone companies, and superior to the capabilities of the legacy networks of the telephone companies and the delivery systems of direct broadcast satellite operators. As of September 30, 2006, virtually all of our legacy systems had bandwidth capacity of 750MHz or greater and were technically capable of delivering all of our advanced digital video, high-speed data and Digital Phone services. As of September 30, 2006, we estimate that
Advanced cable infrastructure.  
Table of Contents
approximately 85% of the homes passed in the Acquired Systems were served by plant that had bandwidth capacity of 750MHz or greater. We have made and anticipate continuing to make significant capital expenditures over the next 12 to 24 months related to the continued integration of the Acquired Systems, including improvements to plant and technical performance and upgrading system capacity, which will allow us to offer our advanced services and features in the Acquired Systems. We estimate that these expenditures will range from approximately $450 million to $550 million (including amounts incurred through September 30, 2006).
 
We are a recognized leader in developing and introducing innovative new technologies and services, and creating enhancements to existing services. Examples of this leadership have included pioneering the network architecture known as "hybrid fiber coax," or "HFC," for which we received an Emmy award in 1994, the introduction of our Road Runner online service in 1996, VOD in 2000, subscription-video-on-demand ("SVOD") in 2001, set-top boxes with integrated DVRs in 2002, synchronous voting and polling in 2003, our Digital Phone service in 2004, instantaneous "Start Over" of in-progress television programs in 2005 and web video "Quick Clips" on the television in 2006. Our ability to deliver technological innovations that respond to our customers' needs and interests is reflected in the widespread customer adoption of these products and services. This leadership has enabled us to accelerate the rate at which we have introduced new services and features over the last few years, resulting in increased subscription ARPU and lowered customer churn.
Innovation leader.  
 
We operate large, well-clustered cable systems, and the Transactions further enhanced our already well-clustered operations. For example, as of September 30, 2006, we passed approximately 4.4 million homes in the greater Los Angeles area, which prior to the Transactions was an operationally fragmented environment in which we passed only 700,000 homes. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 92% of our homes passed were part of clusters of more than 500,000 homes passed. We believe clustering provides us with significant operating and financial advantages, enabling us to:
Large, well-clustered cable systems.  
 
 
We have established a record of financial growth and strong operating performance driven primarily by the introduction of our advanced services. Key operational and financial metrics illustrating this performance include the following:
Consistent track record.  
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
We have a highly experienced management team. Our senior corporate and operating management averages more than 17 years of service with us. Over our long history in the cable business, our management team has demonstrated efficiency, discipline and speed in its execution of cable system upgrades and the introduction of new and enhanced service offerings and has also demonstrated the ability to efficiently integrate the cable systems we acquire from other cable operators into our existing systems.
Highly-experienced management team.  
 
We believe our presence in the diverse communities we serve helps make us responsive to our customers' needs and interests, as well as to local competitive dynamics. Our locally-based employees are familiar with the services we offer in their area and are trained and motivated to promote additional services at each point of customer contact. In addition, we believe our involvement in local community initiatives reinforces awareness of our brand and our commitment to our communities. We implemented a regional management structure in 2005, which we believe enables us to avoid duplication of resources in our operating divisions.
Local presence.  
 
Our Strategy
 
Our goal is to continue to attract new customers, while at the same time deepening relationships with existing customers in order to increase the amount of revenue we earn from each home we pass and increase customer retention. We plan to achieve these goals through ongoing innovation, focused marketing, superior customer care and a disciplined acquisition strategy.
 
We define innovation as the pairing of technology with carefully-researched insights into the services that our customers will value. We will continue to fast-track laboratory and consumer testing of promising concepts and services and rapidly deploy those that we believe will enhance our customer relationships and increase our profitability. We also seek to develop integrated offerings that combine elements of two or more services. We have a proven track record with respect to the introduction of new services. Examples of new services that we are working to develop or introduce more broadly include the following:
Ongoing innovation.  
 
 
Our marketing strategy has three key components: promoting bundled services, effective merchandising and building our brand. We are focused on marketing bundlesdifferentiated packages of multiple services and features for a single priceas we have seen that customers who subscribe to bundles of our services are generally less likely to switch providers and are more likely to be receptive to additional services, including those that we may offer in the future. For example, following the broad launch of our Digital Phone service in 2004, which enabled us to begin offering our "triple play" of video, data and voice services, we observed a reduction in churn and an increase in growth of basic video subscribers in 2005. Our merchandising strategy is to offer bundles with entry-level pricing, which provides our customer care representatives with the opportunity to offer potential customers additional services or upgraded levels of existing services. In addition, we use the information we obtain from our customers to better tailor new offerings to their specific needs and preferences. Our brand statement, , reinforces our customer-centric strategy.
Marketing.  
The Power of You
TM
 
We believe that providing superior customer care helps build customer loyalty and retention, strengthens the Time Warner Cable brand and increases demand for our services. We have implemented a range of initiatives to ensure that customers have the best possible experience with minimum inconvenience when
Superior customer care.  
Table of Contents
ordering and paying for services, scheduling installations and other visits, or obtaining technical or billing information with respect to their services. In addition, we use customer care channels and inbound calling centers to increase our customers' awareness of the new products and services we offer.
 
We will continue to evaluate and selectively pursue opportunistic strategic acquisitions, system swaps and joint ventures that we believe will add value to our existing business. Consistent with this strategy, we completed the Transactions on July 31, 2006.
Growth through disciplined strategic acquisitions.  
 
As of September 30, 2006, the overall penetration rates in the Acquired Systems for basic video, digital video and high-speed data were lower than our legacy penetration rates for such services. Furthermore, telephony service, which was available to nearly 94% of our legacy homes passed as of September 30, 2006, was not available in any of the Acquired Systems. Our goal with respect to the Acquired Systems is to increase penetration of our basic and advanced services toward the levels enjoyed by our legacy systems, thereby increasing revenue growth and profitability. We intend to take the following steps to achieve our goal:
IP-based
 
 
Products and Services
 
We offer a variety of services over our broadband cable systems, including video, high-speed data and voice services. We market our services separately and as "bundled" packages of multiple services and features. Increasingly, our customers subscribe to more than one of our services for a single price reflected on a single consolidated monthly bill.
 
Video Services
 
We offer a full range of analog and digital video service levels, including premium services such as HBO and Showtime, as well as advanced services such as VOD, HDTV, and set-top boxes equipped with DVRs. The following table presents selected statistical data regarding our video services:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Analog video service is available in all of our operating areas. We typically offer two levels or "tiers" of serviceBasic and Standardwhich together offer, on average, approximately 70 channels for viewing on "cable-ready" television sets without the need for a separate set-top box.
Analog services.  
 
 
We offer our Basic and Standard tiers for a fixed monthly fee. The rates we can charge for our "Basic" tier and certain video equipment are subject to regulation under federal law. For more information please see "Regulatory Matters."
 
As of September 30, 2006, 51.8%, or 13.4 million (56.9%, or 9.5 million, on a legacy basis) of our homes passed subscribed to our basic services. Although basic video subscriber penetration levels have generally been lower in the Acquired Systems, we believe we have an opportunity to increase the number of basic video subscribers in the Acquired Systems.
 
In certain areas, our Basic and Standard tiers also include proprietary local programming devoted to the communities we serve. For instance, we provide local news channels in the following areas: NY1 News and NY1 Noticias in New York, NY; News 14 Carolina in Charlotte, Greensboro and Raleigh, NC; R News in Rochester, NY; Capital News 9 in Albany, NY; News 8 Austin in Austin, TX; and News 10 Now in Syracuse, NY. In most of these areas, these news channels are available exclusively on our cable systems. The channels provide us with a competitive advantage against other distributors of video programming and provide local advertisers with a unique opportunity to reach viewers. Furthermore, we believe that the presence of news gathering organizations in the areas we serve heightens customer awareness of our brand and services, and helps us to establish strong, permanent ties to the community.
24-hour
 
Subscribers to our digital video services receive a wide variety of up to 250 digital video and audio services (in digital format in most of our legacy operating areas) and services that may include:
Digital services.
 
 
Subscribers to our digital video service receive all the channels that are contained in the tier that they purchase for a fixed monthly fee. Digital subscribers may also purchase seasonal sports packages, which are generally available for a single fee for the entire season, although half-season packages are sometimes also available.
Table of Contents
As of September 30, 2006, 52.3%, or approximately 7.0 million, of our basic video subscribers subscribed to our digital video services and in our legacy systems, approximately 53.8% of our 9.5 million basic video subscribers subscribed to our digital video services. Although digital video penetration levels have been lower in the Acquired Systems, we believe we have an opportunity to increase the number of digital subscribers in the Acquired Systems.
 
We offer a number of On-Demand services that enable users to view what they want, when they want it. These serviceswhich are provided only to our digital video customersfeature advanced functionality, such as the ability to pause, rewind and fast-forward the programming using our VOD system. Currently, our On-Demand services cannot be fully matched by our direct broadcast satellite competitors, because of their lack of a robust two-way network, and, accordingly, we believe On-Demand services provide us with a significant advantage over these competitors. We also believe that access to On-Demand programming gives our existing analog subscribers and potential new subscribers a compelling reason to subscribe to our digital video service. Our On-Demand products and services include:
On-Demand services.  
 
 
In September 2006, more than 2.7 million unique users accessed over 64 million streams of On-Demand programming in our legacy systems. In the period starting in January 2005, we doubled the number of On-Demand titles we offered. We charge for most of the movies that are made available in our service on a per-use basis, but our SVOD services are generally included in premium packages or are made available as part of a separate package of SVOD services.
18-month
Movies-on-Demand
 
Set-top boxes equipped with digital video recorders are available for a fixed monthly fee. These set-top boxes enable customers to:
DVRs.  
 
Table of Contents
 
 
We believe the ease of use and installation of our integrated DVR set-top box makes it a more attractive choice compared to similar products offered by third parties. Initially introduced in 2002, we currently offer our DVR product to our digital video subscribers in all our legacy operating areas. As of September 30, 2006, 31%, or approximately 2.2 million, of our digital video subscribers also received a DVR set-top box. Although penetration levels for DVRs have been lower in the Acquired Systems, we believe we have an opportunity to increase the number of DVR subscribers in the Acquired Systems. We charge an additional monthly fee for DVR set-top boxes over and above the normal set-top box charge. The monthly fee for DVR set-top boxes is subject to regulation. See "Regulatory Matters" below.
 
We generally offer approximately 15 channels of high definition television, or HDTV, in each of our systems, mainly consisting of broadcast signals and standard and premium cable networks, as well as HDTV in most of our legacy operating areas. HDTV provides a significantly clearer picture and improved audio quality. In most instances, customers who already subscribe to the standard-definition versions of these services, including in the case of broadcast stations those customers who receive only Basic service, are not charged for the high definition version of the channels. We also offer a package of HDTV channels for an additional monthly fee.
High definition services.  
Movies-on-Demand
 
Our two-way digital cable infrastructure enables us to introduce innovative interactive features and services. We believe these features and services will be important to us because they cannot be offered in comparable form over the one-way networks operated by some of our competitors, such as direct broadcast satellite providers, and are intended to meet the changing needs of our customers and advertisers. Examples of interactive services that we offer or are in the process of trialing or rolling out include:
Interactive services.  
 
 
High-speed Data Services
 
We offer residential and commercial high-speed data services to nearly 99% of homes passed as of September 30, 2006. Our high-speed data services provide customers with a fast, always-on connection to the Internet.
 
The following table presents some statistical data regarding our high-speed data services:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
High-speed data subscribers connect their personal computers or other broadband ready devices to our cable systems using a cable modem, which we provide at no charge or which subscribers can purchase themselves if they wish. Our high-speed data service enables subscribers to connect to the Internet at speeds much greater than traditional telephone modems. In contrast to services, subscribers to our high-speed data service do not have to log in to their account each time they wish to access the service and can remain connected without being disconnected because of inactivity.
dial-up
dial-up
 
We believe our high-speed data service has certain competitive advantages over digital subscriber line ("DSL"). However, a number of incumbent local telephone companies are undertaking fiber optic upgrades of their networks, which will allow them to offer high-speed data services at speeds much higher than DSL speeds. We believe that our cable infrastructure has the capability to match these speeds without the need for major plant upgrades. See "TechnologyOur Cable Systems."
 
As of September 30, 2006, we offered our Road Runner branded, high-speed data service to residential subscribers in virtually all of our legacy cable systems. At September 30, 2006, we were providing the same high-speed data service provided prior to the Transactions in the Acquired Systems on a temporary basis. We expect to replace these pre-existing high-speed data services with Road Runner in all the Acquired Systems before the end of 2007.
Road Runner.  
 
Our Road Runner service provides communication tools and personalized services, including email, PC security, news group, online radio and personal home pages. Electronic messages can be personalized with photo attachments or video clips. The Road Runner portal provides access to content and media from local, national and international providers. It provides topic-specific channels including games, news, sports, autos, kids, music, movie listings, and shopping sites.
 
We offer multiple tiers of Road Runner service, each with different operating characteristics. In most of our operating areas, Road Runner Standardour flagship service levelprovides download speeds of up to 5 to 7 megabits per second (mbps) and upload speeds of up to 384 kilobits per second (kbps); Road Runner Premiumwhich, as of September 30, 2006, is generally available for $9.95 more than Road Runner Standardprovides download speeds of up to 8 to 15 mbps and upload speeds of up to 512 kbps to 2 mbps; and Road Runner Liteour entry level of serviceprovides download speeds of up to 768 kbps and upload speeds of up to 128 kbps. In recent years, we have steadily increased maximum download speeds in response to competitive factors and we anticipate that we will continue to be able to do so for the foreseeable future.
 
Road Runner was a recipient of the SATMetrics award for highest consumer "likelihood to recommend" in 2006, well ahead of all other cable providers, DSL providers, and other Internet service providers ("ISPs"). In addition to Road Runner, most of our cable systems provide high-speed access to the services of certain other on-line providers, including EarthLink.
 
We offer commercial customers a variety of high-speed data services, including Internet access, website hosting and managed security. These services are offered to a broad range of businesses and are marketed under the "Time Warner Cable Business Class" brand. We believe our commercial high-speed data services represent an attractive balance of price and performance for many small to medium-sized businesses seeking to receive high-speed data and related services when compared to the cost of purchasing and installing a T1 line, a comparable service offered by many telecommunications services providers. We expect that small to medium-sized businesses will increasingly find the need to purchase high-speed data services and that those businesses will provide us with a large base of potential accounts. Through a targeted commercial sales effort, we believe we can increase the number of commercial high-speed data accounts we serve by providing business sales and strong customer support.
Time Warner Cable Business Class.  
face-to-face
 
In addition to the residential subscribers and commercial accounts serviced through our cable systems, we provide our Road Runner high-speed data service to third parties for a fee.
Table of Contents
Voice Services
 
Digital Phone is the newest of our core services, having been launched broadly across our legacy systems in 2004. With our Digital Phone service, we can offer our customers a combined, package of video, high-speed data and voice services and effectively compete against similarly bundled products offered by our competitors. Most of our customers receive a Digital Phone package that provides unlimited local, in-state and U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico long-distance calling and a number of calling features for a fixed monthly fee. During 2006, we introduced a lower priced unlimited in-state only calling plan to serve those of our customers that do not extensively use long-distance services, and second line service and we expect to introduce additional calling plans in the future. Our Digital Phone plans include, among others, the following calling features:
Digital Phone.  
easy-to-use
 
 
Subscribers switching to Digital Phone can keep their existing telephone numbers, and customers have the option of having a directory listing. Digital Phone subscribers can make and receive telephone calls using virtually any commercially available telephone handset, including a cordless phone, plugged into standard telephone wall jacks or directly to the special cable modem we provide.
 
As of September 30, 2006, on a legacy basis, Digital Phone had been launched across our footprint and was available to nearly 94% of our homes passed. At that time, we had approximately 1.6 million Digital Phone customers and penetration of voice service to serviceable homes was nearly 11%. This represents a 51% increase in Digital Phone penetration rates since December 31, 2005. Since no comparable telephony service was available in the Acquired Systems, introducing Digital Phone in the Acquired Systems, separately and as part of a bundle, is a high priority. We have begun and expect to continue rolling out Digital Phone in the Acquired Systems as soon as technically and operationally feasible.
IP-based
 
Digital Phone is delivered over the same system facilities we use to provide video and high-speed data services. We provide customers with a voice-enabled cable modem that digitizes voice signals and routes them as data packets, using IP technology, over our own managed broadband cable systems. Calls to destinations outside of our cable systems are routed to the traditional public switched telephone network. Unlike Internet phone providers, such as Vonage and Lingo, which utilize the Internet to transport telephone calls, our Digital Phone service uses only our own managed network and the public switched telephone network to route calls. We believe our managed approach to delivery of voice services allows us to better monitor and maintain call and service quality.
 
We have agreements with Verizon and Sprint Nextel Corporation ("Sprint") under which these companies assist us in providing Digital Phone service by routing voice traffic to the public switched telephone network, delivering enhanced 911 service and assisting in local number portability and long distance traffic carriage. In July 2006, we agreed to expand our multi-year relationship with Sprint as our primary provider of these services, including in the Acquired Systems. See "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Dependence on Third PartiesWe depend on third party suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary equipment, software or
Table of Contents
licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected."
 
In the Exchange, we acquired customers in the Comcast Acquired Systems who receive traditional, circuit-switched local and long distance telephone services. We continue to provide traditional, circuit-switched services to those subscribers and will continue to do so for some period of time, while we will simultaneously market our Digital Phone product to those customers. After some period of time, we intend to discontinue the circuit-switched offering in accordance with regulatory requirements, at which time the only voice services provided by us in those systems will be our Digital Phone service.
Circuit-switched Telephone.  
 
Service Bundles
 
In addition to selling our services separately, we are focused on marketing differentiated packages of multiple services and features, or "bundles," for a single price. Increasingly, many of our customers subscribe to two or three of our services. The bundle represents a discount from the price of buying the services separately and the convenience of a single monthly bill. We believe that these "Double Play" and "Triple Play" offerings increase our customers' satisfaction with us, increase customer retention and encourage subscription to additional features. For the quarter ended September 30, 2006, on a legacy basis, Double Play subscribers increased by 41,000 to approximately 3.3 million, and Triple Play subscribers increased by 166,000 to approximately 1.3 million. In that quarter, on a legacy basis, over 4 in 10 customers, or 44.3%, received at least two services. The table below sets forth the number of our "Double Play" and "Triple Play" customers as of the dates indicated.
 
 
 
 
Cross-platform Features
 
In support of our bundled services strategy, we are developing features that operate across two or more of our services, which we believe increases the likelihood that our customers will buy both such services from us rather than one from us and one from another provider. For example, we have begun to offer customers who subscribe to both Time Warner Digital Cable and Digital Phone, at no charge, a Caller ID on TV feature that displays incoming call information on the customer's television set. In July 2006, we introduced a new feature called "PhotoShowTV" in our Oceanic division in Hawaii that gives customers who subscribe to both Time Warner Digital Cable and Road Runner high-speed online the ability to create and share their personal photo shows with our other Time Warner Cable digital video customers using our VOD technology. We believe that integrated service features like Caller ID on TV and PhotoShowTV can improve customer satisfaction, increase customer retention and increase receptivity to additional services we may offer in the future.
 
New Opportunities
 
Commercial Voice
 
We believe that continued innovation on our advanced cable infrastructure may create additional business opportunities in the future. One such opportunity is the offering of telephony service to commercial customers as an adjunct to our existing commercial data business. We intend to introduce a commercial voice service to small to medium-sized businesses in most of our legacy systems during 2007.
IP-based
 
Wireless Joint Venture
 
In November 2005, we and several other cable companies, together with Sprint, announced that we would form a joint venture to develop integrated video entertainment, wireline and wireless data and communications products
Table of Contents
and services. We and the other participating companies have agreed to work together to develop new products for consumers that combine cable based products, interactive features and the potential of wireless technology to deliver advanced integrated entertainment, communications and wireless services to consumers in their homes and when they are away. In August 2006, two of our operating areas began to market and sell a "Quadruple Play" package of digital video, Road Runner, Digital Phone and wireless service. The package contains some wireline/wireless integration, such as a common voice mail-box for both the home and wireless phone. See "Risk FactorsRisks Related to CompetitionOur competitive position could suffer if we are unable to develop a compelling wireless offering." A separate joint venture formed by the same parties participated in the Federal Communication Commission (the "FCC") Auction 66 for Advanced Wireless Spectrum ("AWS"), and was the winning bidder of 137 licenses. These licenses cover 20 MHz of AWS in about 90% of the continental United States and Hawaii. The FCC awarded these licenses to the venture on November 29, 2006. However, there can be no assurance that the venture will successfully develop mobile and related services.
 
Advertising
 
We sell advertising time to a variety of national, regional and local businesses. As part of the agreements under which we acquire video programming, we typically receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time in such programming, generally two minutes per hour, into which our systems can insert commercials, subject to limitations regarding subject matter. The clustering of our systems expands the share of viewers that we reach within a local designated market area, which helps our local advertising sales personnel to compete more effectively with broadcast and other media. Following the Transactions, we now have a strong presence in the country's two largest advertising markets, New York, New York, and Los Angeles, California, which we believe will enhance our advertising sales operations.
 
In addition, in many locations, contiguous cable system operators have formed advertising "interconnects" to deliver locally inserted commercials across wider geographic areas, replicating the reach of the broadcast stations as much as possible. As of September 30, 2006, we participated in local advertising interconnects in 23 markets, including three markets covered by the Acquired Systems. Our local cable news channels also provide us with opportunities to generate advertising revenue.
 
We are exploring various means by which we could utilize our advanced services, such as VOD and interactive TV to increase advertising revenues. For example, in 2006 we launched Movie Trailers on Demand, an ad-supported VOD channel which provides advertisers a way to reach customers as they are browsing movie previews; DriverTV, an VOD channel which provides advertisers a way to reach customers interested in learning about new cars; and Expo TV, an ad-supported VOD channel which provides advertisers a way to reach customers interested in viewing infomercial and local advertising. With our interactive TV technology, we now offer advertisers new tools. For example, in upstate New York we provide overlays that enable customers to request information, to "telescope" from a traditional advertisement to a long form VOD segment regarding the advertised product to get more information about a product or service, vote on a hot topic or receive more specific additional information. These tools are accompanied by more powerful audience measurement capabilities than we have offered to advertisers in the past that enable us to track aggregate viewership, clicks, and transactions without providing personally identifiable information.
ad-supported
 
Marketing and Sales
 
Our goal is to deepen our relationships with existing customers, thereby increasing the amount of revenue we obtain from each home we serve and increasing customer retention, as well as to attract new customers. Our marketing is focused on conveying the benefits of our servicesin particular, the way our services can enhance and simplify our customers' livesto these target groups. Our marketing strategy focuses on bundles of video, data and voice services, including premium services, offered in differentiated but easy to understand packages. These bundles provide discounted pricing as compared with the aggregate prices for the services provided if they were purchased separately, in addition to the convenience of a single bill. We generally market bundles with entry level pricing, which provide our customer care representatives the opportunity to offer additional services or upgraded levels of existing services that are relevant to targeted customer groups.
Table of Contents
To support these efforts, we utilize our brand and the brand statement, , in conjunction with a variety of integrated marketing, promotional and sales campaigns and techniques. Our advertising is intended to let our diverse base of subscribers and prospects know that we are a customer-centric companyone that empowers customers by providing maximum choice, convenience and valueand that we are committed to exceeding expectations through innovative product offerings and superior customer service. Our message is supported across broadcast, our own cable systems, print, radio and other outlets including outdoor advertising, direct mail, on-line advertising, local grassroots efforts and non-traditional media.
The Power of You
TM
e-mail,
 
We also employ a wide range of direct channels to reach our customers, including outbound telemarketing and sales. In addition, we use customer care channels and inbound call centers to increase awareness of our products and services offered. Creative promotional offers are also a key part of our strategy, and an area where we work with third parties such as consumer electronics manufacturers and cable programmers. We also are developing new sales channels through agreements with local and national retail stores, where our satellite competitors have a strong presence.
door-to-door
 
We have been developing and implementing a number of technology-based tools and capabilities that we believe will allow us to provide more targeted and responsive marketing efforts. These initiatives include the development of customized data storage and flexible access tools. This infrastructure will ensure that critical customer information is in the hands of customer service representatives as they interact with customers and prospects and on an aggregate basis to help us develop marketing programs.
 
Each of our local operations has a marketing and sales function responsible for selecting the relevant marketing communications, pricing and promotional offers for the products and services being sold and the consumer segments being targeted. The marketing and sales strategy is developed in coordination with our regional and corporate marketing teams, with execution by the local operating division.
 
We also maintain a sales presence in a number of retail locations across the markets we serve. This retail presence enables both new and existing customers to learn more about us, and purchase our products and services. We maintain dedicated customer service centers that allow for the resolution of billing and service issues as well as facilitate the sale of new products and services. Our centers are located in our local administrative offices or operations centers, independent facilities or kiosks or booths within larger retail establishments, such as shopping malls.
 
Customer Care
 
We believe that superior customer care can help us to increase customer satisfaction, promote customer loyalty and lasting customer relationships, and increase the penetration of our services. We are committed to putting our customers at the center of everything we do and we are making significant investments in technology and people to support this commitment.
 
Our customer call centers use a range of software and systems to try to ensure the most efficient and effective customer care possible. For instance, many of our customer call centers utilize workforce and call flow management systems to route the millions of calls we receive each month to available representatives and to maximize existing resources. Customer representatives have access to desktop tools to provide the information our customers need, reducing call handling time. These desktop tools provide the representative with timely, valuable information regarding the customer then calling (e.g., notifying the representative if the customer has called previously on the same issue or helping to identify a new service in which the customer might be interested). We use quality assurance software that monitors both the representative's customer interactions and the desktop tools the representative selects during each call.
 
Many of our divisions are utilizing interactive voice recognition systems and on-line customer care systems to allow customers to obtain information they require without the need to speak with a customer care representative. Most customers who wish or need to speak with a representative will talk to a locally-based representative, which enables us to respond to local customer needs and preferences. However, some specialized care functions, such as advanced technical support for our high-speed data service, are handled regionally or nationally.
Table of Contents
In order to enhance customer convenience and satisfaction, we have implemented a number of customer care initiatives. Depending on location, these may include:
 
 
We also provide "Answers on Demand," which allows customers to select discrete help topics from a menu and then view interactive videos that answer their questions. Customers can access Answers on Demand either on-line or on their television set (using our VOD technology).
 
Technology
 
Our Cable Systems
 
Our cable systems employ an extremely flexible and extensible network architecture known as "hybrid fiber coax," or "HFC." We transmit signals on these systems via laser-fed fiber optic cable from origination points known as "headends" and "hubs" to a group of distribution "nodes," and use coaxial cable to deliver these signals from the individual nodes to the homes they serve. We pioneered this architecture and received an Emmy award in 1994 for our HFC development efforts. HFC architecture allows the delivery of two-way video and broadband transmissions, which is essential to providing advanced video services, like VOD, Road Runner high-speed data services and Digital Phone.
 
HFC architecture is the cornerstone technology in our digital cable systems, which we believe constitute one of our greatest competitive strengths. HFC architecture provides us with numerous benefits, including the following:
 
 
The overall capacity of each of our systems is, in part, related to its maximum frequency. As of September 30, 2006, almost all of our legacy homes passed and, according to our estimates, approximately 85% of the homes passed in the Acquired Systems, were served by plant that had been upgraded to at least 750MHz. We have begun to upgrade the plant in the Acquired Systems that is not already operating at 750MHz. Carriage of analog programming (approximately 70 channels per system) uses about two thirds of a typical system's capacity leaving capacity for digital video, high-speed data and voice products. Digital signals, including video, high-speed data and voice signals, can be carried more efficiently than analog signals. Generally 10 to 12 digital channels or their equivalent can be broadcast using the same amount of capacity required to broadcast just one analog channel.
 
We believe that our network architecture is sufficiently flexible and extensible to support our current requirements. However, in order for us to continue to innovate and deliver new services to our customers, as well as meet competitive imperatives, we anticipate that we will need to increase the amount of usable bandwidth available to us in most of our systems over the next few years. We believe that this can be achieved largely through the maximization and careful management of our systems' existing bandwidth, without costly upgrades. For example, to accommodate increasing numbers of HDTV channels and other demands for greater capacity in our network, in certain areas we have begun deployment of a technology known as switched digital video ("SDV").
Table of Contents
SDV ensures that only those channels that are being watched within a given grouping of households are being transmitted to those households. Since it is generally the case that not all channels are being watched at all times by a given group of households, this frees up capacity that can then be made available for other uses. This expansion of network capacity does not rely on extensive upgrade construction. Instead, we invest in switching equipment in our headends and hubs and, as necessary, we segment our plant to ensure that switches and lasers are shared among fewer households. As a result of this process, capacity is made available for new services, including HDTV channels.
 
Video, High-speed Data and Voice Distribution
 
In most systems, we deliver our services via laser-fed fiber optic cable from the headend, either directly or via a hub, to a group of nodes, and use coaxial cable to deliver these signals and services from individual nodes to the homes they serve. A typical hub provides service to approximately 20,000 homes, and our average node provides service to approximately 500 homes.
 
National and regional video services are generally delivered to us through satellites that are owned or leased by the relevant programmer. These services' signals are transmitted to downlink facilities located at our headends. Local video signals, including local broadcast signals, are picked up by antennae or are delivered to our headends via fiber connection. VOD content is received using a variety of these methods and generally stored on servers located at each system's headend.
 
We deliver high-speed data services to our subscribers through our HFC network, our regional fiber networks that are either owned by us or leased from third parties, including, in some instances, AOL LLC (formerly America Online, Inc., "AOL"), a subsidiary of Time Warner, and through backbone networks that provide connectivity to the Internet and are operated by third parties, including AOL. We pay fees for leased circuits based on the amount of capacity used and pay for Internet connectivity based either on a fixed fee for a specified amount of available capacity or on the amount of data traffic received from and sent over the provider's backbone network. We provide all major high-speed data customer service applications and monitor our IP network, through our operation of two national data centers, eight regional data centers and two network operations centers, including one acquired in the Adelphia Acquisition.
 
We deliver Digital Phone voice services to our customers over the same system facilities used to provide video and high-speed data services. We provide Digital Phone customers with a voice-enabled cable modem that digitizes voice signals and routes them as data packets, using "Internet protocol," a common standard for the packaging of data for transmission, over the cable system to one of our regional data centers. At the regional data center, a "softswitch" routes the data packets as appropriate based on the call's destination. Calls destined for end users outside of our network are routed through devices called "session border controllers" in the session initiation protocol format and delivered to our wholesale service providers. Such calls are then routed to a traditional public telephone switch, operated by one of our two wholesale service providers, and then to their final destination (e.g., a residential or business end-user, a 911 dispatcher, or an operator). Calls placed outside of our network and intended for our subscribers follow a reverse route. Calls entirely within our network are generally routed by the softswitch to the appropriate end user without the use of a traditional public telephone switch.
 
Set-top Boxes
 
Our Basic and Standard tier subscribers generally do not require a set-top box to view their video services. However, because our digital signals and signals for premium programming are secured, our digital video customers receiving one-way (i.e., non-interactive) programming, such as premium channels and digital cable networks, can only receive such channels if they have a digital set-top box or if they have a "digital cable ready" television or similar device equipped with a CableCARD (discussed below). Customers receiving our two-way video services, such as VOD and our interactive program guide, must have a digital set-top box that we provide to receive these services. Each of our cable systems uses one of only two "conditional access" systems to secure signals from unauthorized receipt, the intellectual property rights to which are controlled by set-top box manufacturers. In part as a result of the proprietary nature of these conditional access schemes, we currently purchase set-top boxes from a limited number of suppliers. For more information, please see "Risk FactorsRisks Related to
Table of Contents
Dependence on Third PartiesWe depend on third party suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected." The cable industry has recently entered into agreements with certain consumer electronics manufacturers under which they will shortly complete development of a limited number of "interactive digital cable ready" televisions (i.e., sets capable of utilizing our two-way services without the need for a set-top box). We have begun ordering some set-top boxes from some of these manufacturers as well. Our purchasing agreements generally provide us with "most favored nation" treatment under which the suppliers must offer us favorable price terms, subject to some limitations.
 
Historically, we have also relied primarily on set-top box suppliers to create the applications and interfaces we make available to our customers. Although we believe that our current applications and interfaces are compelling to customers, the lack of compatibility among set-top box operating systems has in the past hindered applications development. This is beginning to change somewhat, as third parties have begun to develop interactive applications, such as gaming and polling applications, notwithstanding the lack of common platform among set-top box schemes. Over the last few years, we have been developing our own interactive program guide and user interface, which we began to deploy during 2006.
 
As described below under "Set-top Box Developments," as current technological and compatibility issues for set-top box applications are resolved and a common platform for set-top box applications emerges, we expect that applications developers will devote more time and resources to the creation of innovative digital platform products, which should enable us to offer more attractive features to our subscribers in the future.
 
Set-top Box Developments
 
There have been a number of market and regulatory developments in recent years that may impact the costs and benefits to us of providing customers with set-top boxes.
 
In December 2002, cable operators and consumer-electronics companies entered into a standard-setting agreement, known as the "plug and play agreement," relating to interoperability between cable systems and reception equipment. The FCC promulgated rules to implement the agreement, under which cable systems with activated spectrum of 750MHz or higher must, among other things, support "digital cable ready" consumer electronic devices (e.g., televisions) equipped with a slot for a CableCARD. The CableCARD performs certain security functions normally handled by the kinds of set-top boxes we lease to customers. By inserting a cable-operator provided CableCARD into this slot, the device is able to tune and receive encrypted (or "scrambled") digital signals without the need for a separate
"Plug and play."  
set-top box.
 
The plug and play agreement and the FCC rules address only "unidirectional" devices (i.e., devices capable of utilizing only cable operators' one-way transmission services) and not devices capable of carrying two-way services, such as interactive program guides and VOD). As a result, those of our customers who use a CableCARD equipped television set, and who do not have a set-top box, cannot access these advanced services. If a significant number of our subscribers decline set-top boxes in favor of one-way devices purchased at retail, it could have an adverse effect on our business. For more information, please see "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Dependence on Third PartiesThe adoption of, or the failure to adopt, certain consumer electronics devices may negatively impact our offerings of new and enhanced services." Cable operators, consumer-electronics companies and other market participants have been holding discussions that may lead to a similar set of interoperability agreements covering digital devices capable of carrying cable operators' two-way, interactive products and services. Although efforts to reach an inter-industry agreement on two-way interoperability standards have not yielded results, as noted above, certain consumer electronics manufacturers have entered into direct agreements with the cable industry under which they will shortly complete development of a limited number of two-way capable television sets.
 
If two-way interoperability standards can be agreed upon, or if other efforts to enable consumer electronics devices to securely receive and utilize our two-way services are successful, our business could be benefited. First, consumer electronic companies could manufacture set-top boxes without the need to license our current suppliers' conditional access technology, which could lead to greater competition and innovation. Second, if customers widely adopted such devices sold at retail, it would likely reduce our set-top box capital expenditures and the need for
Table of Contents
installation appointments in homes already wired for cable. However, we could suffer a decline in set-top box revenues. Furthermore, in the long term, interoperability for two-way devices evolves, consumer electronics companies may be more willing to develop products that make enhanced use of digital cable's capabilities, expanding the range of services we could offer.
 
Under another set of FCC regulations, which are scheduled to go into effect on July 1, 2007, cable operators must cease placing into service new set-top boxes with security functions built into the box. In other words, beginning on that date, new set-top boxes deployed by cable operators will be required to utilize a CableCARD or similar means of separating security functions from other set-top box functions. See "Regulatory Act and FCC RegulationsOther regulatory requirements of the Communications Act and the FCC" below. The provision of set-top boxes that accept a CableCARD, or similar separate security device, will significantly increase set-top box costs as compared with the set-top boxes we currently buy, which utilize integrated security. See "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Government RegulationThe FCC's set-top box rules could impose significant additional costs on us." The FCC has also ordered the cable industry to investigate and report on the possibility of implementing a downloadable security system that would be accessible to all set-top devices. If the implementation of such a system proves technologically feasible, this may eliminate the need for consumers to lease separate conditional-access security devices.
MattersCommunications
per-unit
 
CableLabs, a nonprofit research and development consortium founded by members of the cable industry, has put forward a set of hardware and software specifications known as OpenCable, which represent an effort to achieve compatibility across cable network interfaces. The OpenCable software specification, which is known as "open cable application platform," or "OCAP," is intended to create a common platform for set-top box applications regardless of what operating system the box uses. The OpenCable specification is consistent with the CableCARD specification promulgated under the FCC's plug and play rules and the encryption technology that allows the CableCARD to securely communicate with the host device. If widely adopted, OCAP could spur innovation in applications for set-top boxes and cable-ready consumer electronics devices. Furthermore, the availability of multi-platform set-top box applications should, together with the move toward separable conditional access systems, help to make set-top boxes more fungible, resulting in increased competition among manufacturers.
Open cable application platform.  
 
Content and Equipment Suppliers
 
Video Programming Content
 
We believe that offering a wide variety of programming is an important factor influencing a subscriber's decision to subscribe to and retain our video services. We devote considerable resources to obtaining access to a wide range of programming that we believe will appeal to both existing and potential subscribers.
 
The terms and conditions of carriage of cable programming services are generally established through written affiliation agreements between programmers, including affiliates of Time Warner, and us. Most cable programming services are available to us for a fixed monthly per subscriber fee, which sometimes includes a volume discount pricing structure. However, payments to the providers of some premium channels, may be based on a percentage of our gross receipts from subscriptions to the channels. For home shopping channels, we do not pay and generally receive a percentage of the amount spent on home shopping purchases that is attributable to our subscribers and in some instances receive minimum guarantees.
Cable television networks.  
 
Our programming contracts usually continue for a fixed period of time, generally from three to seven years. We believe that our ability to provide compelling programming packages is best served when we have maximum flexibility to determine on which systems and tiers a programming service will be carried. Sometimes, our flexibility is limited by the affiliation agreement. It is often necessary to agree to carry a particular programming service in certain of our cable systems and/or carry the service on a specific tier. In some cases, it is necessary for us to agree to distribute a programming service to a minimum number of subscribers or to a minimum percentage of our subscribers.
 
Generally, we carry all local full power analog broadcast stations serving the areas in which we provide cable service. In most areas, we also carry the digital broadcast signals of a number of
Broadcast television signals.  
Table of Contents
these stations. In some cases, we carry these stations under the FCC "must-carry" rules. In other cases, we must negotiate with the stations' owners for the right to retransmit these stations' signals. For more information, please see "Regulatory Matters" below. Currently, we have multi-year retransmission consent agreements in place with most of the retransmission consent stations we carry. In other cases, we are carrying stations under short-term arrangements while we negotiate new long-term agreements.
 
Generally, we obtain rights to carry movies on an on-demand basis, as well as events, through iN Demand, a company in which we hold a minority interest. iN Demand negotiates with motion picture studios to obtain the relevant distribution rights. In some instances, we have contracted directly with the motion picture studios for the rights to carry their movies on an on-demand basis. content is generally provided to us under a revenue-sharing arrangement, although in some cases there are minimum guaranteed payments required.
and On-Demand content.  
Pay-Per-View
Pay-Per-View
Movies-on-Demand
 
Our ability to get access to current hit films in a timely fashion is hampered to some extent by the traditional sequence of Hollywood's distribution "windows." Typically, after theatrical release, films are made available to home video distributors on an exclusive basis for a set period of time, usually 45 days. It is only after home video has enjoyed its exclusive window that and distributors can gain access to the content. It is possible that subscriber purchases of would increase if we were able to provide hit films during the home video window. However, despite efforts to do so, we have been unable to obtain the right to offer current hit films during this window.
Movies-on-Demand
Pay-Per-View
Movies-on-Demand
 
In line with our goal of offering a wide variety of programming that will appeal to both existing and potential subscribers, we are trying to maximize the quantity and quality of all of our video offerings, especially our VOD offerings. As additional VOD content becomes available we evaluate it to determine if it meets our standards and to the extent it does, we begin offering it to our digital subscribers.
 
We obtain SVOD and other "free on-demand" content directly from the relevant content providers.
 
We purchase set-top boxes, and CableCARDs (which enable some digital televisions and other devices to receive certain non-interactive digital services without a set-top box) from a limited number of suppliers. We lease these devices to subscribers at monthly rates. Our video equipment fees are regulated. Under FCC rules, cable operators are allowed to set equipment rates for set-top boxes, CableCARDs and remote controls on the basis of actual capital costs, plus an annual after-tax rate of return of 11.25%, on the capital cost (net of depreciation). This rate of return allows us to economically provide sophisticated customer premises equipment to subscribers. Certain FCC regulations relating to set-top box equipment, slated to come into effect in 2007, are expected to significantly increase our set-top box costs. Please see "TechnologySet-top Boxes" above and "Regulatory Matters" below.
Set-top boxes.  
 
Competition
 
We face intense competition from a variety of alternative information and entertainment delivery sources, principally from satellite video providers and certain regional telephone companies, each of which offers or will shortly be able to offer a broad range of services through increasingly varied technologies. In addition, technological advances will likely increase the number of alternatives available to our customers from other providers and intensify the competitive environment. See "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Competition."
direct-to-home
 
Principal Competitors
 
Our video services face competition from direct broadcast satellite services, such as the Dish Network and DirecTV. DirecTV and Dish Network offer satellite-delivered pre-packaged programming services that can be received by relatively small and inexpensive receiving dishes. The video services provided by these satellite providers are comparable, in many respects, to our analog and digital video services, and direct broadcast satellite subscribers can obtain satellite receivers with integrated digital video recorders from those providers as well. Both major direct broadcast satellite providers have entered into co-marketing arrangements with regional telephone companies that allow these telephone companies to offer customers a bundle of video, telephone and DSL services, which competes with our "Triple Play" of video, high-speed data and Digital Phone services.
Direct broadcast satellite.  
Table of Contents
Our high-speed data and Digital Phone services face competition from the DSL and traditional phone offerings of incumbent local telephone companies in most of our operating areas. In some cases, DSL providers have partnered with ISPs such as AOL, which may enhance DSL's competitive position. In addition, some incumbent local telephone companies, such as AT&T and Verizon, have undertaken fiber-optic upgrades of their networks. The technologies they are using, such as FTTN and FTTH, are capable of carrying two-way video, high-speed data with substantial bandwidth and telephony services, each of which is similar to the comparable services we offer. These networks allow for the marketing of service bundles of video, data and voice services and these companies also have the ability to include wireless services provided by owned or affiliated companies in bundles that they may offer.
Incumbent local telephone companies.  
IP-based
 
We operate our cable systems under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local authorities. The existence of more than one cable system, including municipality-owned systems, operating in the same territory is referred to as an "overbuild." In some of our operating areas, other operators have overbuilt our systems and/or offer video, data and voice services in competition with us.
Cable overbuilds.  
 
Additional competition comes from private cable television systems servicing condominiums, apartment complexes and certain other multiple dwelling units, often on an exclusive basis, with local broadcast signals and many of the same satellite-delivered program services offered by franchised cable systems. Some SMATV operators now offer voice and high-speed data services as well.
Satellite Master Antenna Television ("SMATV").  
 
We face competition from wireless cable operators, including digital wireless operators, who use terrestrial microwave technology to distribute video programming and some of which now offer voice and high-speed data services.
Wireless Cable/Multi-channel Microwave Distribution Services ("MMDS").  
 
Other Competition and Competitive Factors
 
Aside from competing with the video, data and voice services offered by direct broadcast satellite providers, local incumbent telephone companies, cable overbuilders and some SMATVs and MMDSs, each of our services also faces competition from other companies that provide services on a stand-alone basis.
 
Our video services face competition on a stand-alone basis from a number of different sources including:
Video competition.  
 
 
Our VOD services compete with online movie services, which are delivered over broadband Internet connections, and with video stores and home video products.
 
Our high-speed data services face or may face competition from a variety of companies that offer other forms of online services, including low cost services over ordinary telephone lines, and developing technologies, such as Internet service via power lines, satellite and various wireless services (e.g., Wi-Fi), including those of local municipalities.
"Online" competition.  
dial-up
 
Our Digital Phone service also competes with wireless phone providers and national providers of Internet-based phone products such as Vonage. The increase in the number of different technologies capable of carrying voice services has intensified the competitive environment in which our Digital Phone service operates.
Digital Phone competition.  
 
In addition to multi-channel video providers, cable systems compete with all other sources of news, information and entertainment, including television broadcast reception, live events, movie theaters and the Internet. In general, we also face competition from other media for advertising dollars. To the extent that our products and services converge with theirs, we compete with the manufacturers of consumer electronics products. For instance, our digital video recorders compete with similar devices manufactured by consumer electronics companies.
Additional competition.  
over-the-air
Table of Contents
Under the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, franchising authorities are prohibited from unreasonably refusing to award additional franchises. In December 2006, the FCC adopted an order intended to make it easier for competitors to obtain franchises, by defining when the actions of county- and municipal-level franchising authorities will be deemed to be unreasonable as part of the franchising process. The order, among other things, establishes deadlines for franchising authorities to act on competitive franchise applications; prohibits franchising authorities from placing unreasonable build-out demands on competitive applicants; and prohibits franchising authorities from requiring competitive applicants to undertake certain obligations concerning the provision of public, educational, and governmental access programming. Furthermore, legislation supported by regional telephone companies has been proposed at the state and federal level and enacted in a number of states to allow these companies to enter the video distribution business without obtaining local franchise approval and often on substantially more favorable terms than those afforded us and other existing cable operators. Legislation of this kind has been enacted in California, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas. See "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Government Regulation."
Franchise Process.  
 
Employees
 
As of December 1, 2006, we had approximately 39,900 employees, including 2,000 part-time employees and excluding approximately 4,000 employees of our managed joint ventures. Approximately 5.2% of our employees are represented by labor unions. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.
 
Regulatory Matters
 
Our business is subject, in part, to regulation by the FCC and by most local and some state governments where we have cable systems. In addition, our business is operated subject to compliance with the terms of the Memorandum Opinion and Order issued by the FCC in July 2006 in connection with the regulatory clearance of the Transactions (the "Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order"). In addition, various legislative and regulatory proposals under consideration from time to time by the United States Congress ("Congress") and various federal agencies have in the past materially affected us and may do so in the future.
 
The following is a summary of the terms of the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order as well as current significant federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the growth and operation of our businesses. The summary of the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order herein does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order, which is an exhibit to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order
 
In the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order, the FCC imposed conditions on us related to regional sports networks ("RSNs"), as defined in the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order, and the resolution of disputes pursuant to the FCC's leased access regulations. In particular, the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order provides that:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The application and scope of these conditions, which will expire in July 2012, have not yet been tested. We retain the right to obtain FCC and judicial review of any arbitration awards made pursuant to these conditions.
 
Communications Act and FCC Regulation
 
The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the "Communications Act") and the regulations and policies of the FCC affect significant aspects of our cable system operations, including video subscriber rates; carriage of broadcast television stations, as well as the way we sell our program packages to subscribers; the use of cable systems by franchising authorities and other third parties; cable system ownership; offering of voice and high-speed data services; and use of utility poles and conduits.
 
In the Congressional term, several "net neutrality"-type provisions were introduced as part of broader Communications Act reform legislation. These provisions would have limited to a greater or lesser extent the ability of broadband providers to adopt pricing models and network management policies that would differentiate based on different uses of the Internet. None of these provisions was adopted.
"Net neutrality" Legislative and Regulatory Proposals.  
2005-2006
 
In September 2005, the FCC issued a non-binding policy statement regarding net neutrality (the "Net Neutrality Policy Statement"). The FCC indicated that the statement was intended to offer "guidance and insight" into its approach to the Internet and broadband related issues. The principles contained in the statement set forth the FCC's view that consumers are entitled to access and use the lawful Internet content and applications of their choice, to connect lawful devices of their choosing that do not harm the broadband provider's network and are entitled to competition among network, application, service and content providers. The FCC statement also noted that these principles are subject to "reasonable network management." Subsequently, the FCC has made these principles binding as to certain telecommunications companies in orders adopted in connection with mergers undertaken by those companies. To date, the FCC has declined to adopt any such regulations that would be applicable to us.
 
Several parties are seeking to persuade the FCC to adopt net neutrality-type regulations in a number of proceedings that are currently pending before the agency. These include pending FCC rulemakings regarding services and broadband Internet access services. The FCC is also expected to shortly issue a notice of inquiry seeking public comment generally on broadband industry practices. This proceeding could also raise or lead to comments on net neutrality-type issues.
IP-enabled
 
We are unable to predict the likelihood that legislative or additional regulatory proposals regarding net neutrality will be adopted. For a discussion of "net neutrality" and the impact such proposals could have on us if adopted, see the discussion in "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Government Regulation"Net neutrality" legislation or regulation could limit our ability to operate our high-speed data business profitably, to manage our broadband facilities efficiently and to make upgrades to those facilities sufficient to respond to growing bandwidth usage by our high-speed data customers."
 
The Communications Act and the FCC's rules regulate rates for basic cable service and equipment in communities that are not subject to "effective competition," as defined by federal law. Where there is no effective competition, federal law authorizes franchising authorities to regulate the monthly rates charged by the operator for the minimum level of video programming service, referred to as basic service, which generally includes local broadcast channels and public access or educational and government channels required by the franchise. This kind of regulation also applies to the installation, sale and lease of equipment used by subscribers to receive basic service, such as set-top boxes and remote control units. In many localities, we are no longer subject to this rate regulation, either because the local franchising authority has not become certified by the FCC to regulate these rates or because the FCC has found that there is effective competition.
Subscriber rates.  
 
The Communications Act and the FCC's regulations contain broadcast signal carriage requirements that allow local commercial television
Carriage of broadcast television stations and other programming regulation.  
Table of Contents
broadcast stations to elect once every three years to require a cable system to carry their stations, subject to some exceptions, or to negotiate with cable systems the terms by which the cable systems may carry their stations, commonly called "retransmission consent." The most recent election by broadcasters became effective on January 1, 2006.
 
The Communications Act and the FCC's regulations require a cable operator to devote up to one-third of its activated channel capacity for the mandatory carriage of local commercial television stations. The Communications Act and the FCC's regulations give local non-commercial television stations mandatory carriage rights, but non-commercial stations do not have the option to negotiate retransmission consent for the carriage of their signals by cable systems. Additionally, cable systems must obtain retransmission consent for all "distant" commercial television stations (i.e., those television stations outside the designated market area to which a community is assigned) except for commercial satellite-delivered independent "superstations" and some low-power television stations.
 
FCC regulations require us to carry the signals of both commercial and non-commercial local digital-only broadcast stations and the digital signals of local broadcast stations that return their analog spectrum to the government and convert to a digital broadcast format. The FCC's rules give digital-only broadcast stations discretion to elect whether the operator will carry the station's primary signal in a digital or converted analog format, and the rules also permit broadcasters with both analog and digital signals to tie the carriage of their digital signals to the carriage of their analog signals as a retransmission consent condition.
 
The Communications Act also permits franchising authorities to negotiate with cable operators for channels for public, educational and governmental access programming. Moreover, it requires a cable system with 36 or more activated channels to designate a significant portion of its channel capacity for commercial leased access by third parties to provide programming that may compete with services offered by the cable operator. The FCC regulates various aspects of such third party commercial use of channel capacity on our cable systems, including the rates and some terms and conditions of the commercial use.
 
In connection with certain changes in our programming the Communications Act and FCC regulations also require us to give various kinds of advance notice. Under certain circumstances, we must give as much as 30 days' advance notice to subscribers, programmers, and franchising authorities. Under certain circumstances, notice may have to be given in the form of bill inserts, on-screen announcements, and/or newspaper advertisements. Giving notice can be expensive and, given long lead times, may limit our ability to implement programming changes quickly. Direct broadcast satellite operators and other non-cable programming distributors are not subject to analogous duties.
line-up,
 
From time to time, industry groups, telephone companies and ISPs have sought local, state and federal regulations that would require cable operators to sell capacity on their systems to ISPs under a common carrier regulatory scheme. Cable operators have successfully challenged regulations requiring this "forced access," although courts that have considered these cases have employed varying legal rationales in rejecting these regulations.
High-speed Internet access.  
 
In 2002, the FCC released an order in which it determined that cable-modem service constitutes an "information service" rather than a "cable service" or a "telecommunications service," as those terms are used in the Communications Act. That determination has now been sustained by the U.S. Supreme Court. According to the FCC, an "information service" classification may permit but does not require it to impose "multiple ISP" requirements. In 2002, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding to consider whether it may and should do so and whether local franchising authorities should be permitted to do so. This rulemaking proceeding remains pending. As noted above, in 2005, the FCC adopted a Net Neutrality Policy Statement intended to offer guidance on its approach to the Internet and broadband access. Among other things, the Policy Statement stated that consumers are entitled to competition among network, service and content providers, and to access the lawful content and services of their choice, subject to the needs of law enforcement. The FCC may in the future adopt specific regulations to implement the Policy Statement.
 
There are various rules prohibiting joint ownership of cable systems and other kinds of communications facilities. Local telephone companies generally may not acquire more than a small equity
Ownership limitations.  
Table of Contents
interest in an existing cable system in the telephone company's service area, and cable operators generally may not acquire more than a small equity interest in a local telephone company providing service within the cable operator's franchise area. In addition, cable operators may not have more than a small interest in MMDS facilities or SMATV systems in their service areas. Finally, the FCC has been exploring whether it should prohibit cable operators from holding ownership interests in satellite operators.
 
The Communications Act also required the FCC to adopt "reasonable limits" on the number of subscribers a cable operator may reach through systems in which it holds an ownership interest. In September 1993, the FCC adopted a rule that was later amended to prohibit any cable operator from serving more than 30% of all cable, satellite and other multi-channel subscribers nationwide. The Communications Act also required the FCC to adopt "reasonable limits" on the number of channels that cable operators may fill with programming services in which they hold an ownership interest. In September 1993, the FCC imposed a limit of 40% of a cable operator's first 75 activated channels. In March 2001, a federal appeals court struck down both limits and remanded the issue to the FCC for further review. The FCC initiated a rulemaking in 2001 to consider adopting a new horizontal ownership limit and announced a follow-on proceeding to consider the issue anew. The FCC is currently exploring whether it should re-impose any limits. We believe that it is unlikely that the FCC will adopt limits more stringent that those struck down.
 
Local telephone companies may provide service as traditional cable operators with local franchises or they may opt to provide their programming over unfranchised "open video systems." Open video systems are subject to specified requirements, including, but not limited to, a requirement that they set aside a portion of their channel capacity for use by unaffiliated program distributors on a non-discriminatory basis. A federal appellate court overturned various parts of the FCC's open video rules, including the FCC's preemption of local franchising requirements for open video operators. The FCC has modified its open video rules to comply with the federal court's decision.
 
The Communications Act requires that utilities provide cable systems and telecommunications carriers with nondiscriminatory access to any pole, conduit or controlled by investor-owned utilities. The Communications Act also requires the FCC to regulate the rates, terms and conditions imposed by these utilities for cable systems' use of utility pole and conduit space unless state authorities demonstrate to the FCC that they adequately regulate pole attachment rates, as is the case in some states in which we operate. In the absence of state regulation, the FCC administers pole attachment rates on a formula basis. The FCC's original rate formula governs the maximum rate utilities may charge for attachments to their poles and conduit by cable operators providing cable services. The FCC also adopted a second rate formula that became effective in February 2001 and governs the maximum rate investor-owned utilities may charge for attachments to their poles and conduit by companies providing telecommunications services. The U.S. Supreme Court has upheld the FCC's jurisdiction to regulate the rates, terms and conditions of cable operators' pole attachments that are being used to provide both cable service and high-speed data service.
Pole attachment regulation.  
right-of-way
 
Certain regulatory requirements are also applicable to set-top boxes. Currently, many cable subscribers rent from their cable operator a set-top box that performs both signal-reception functions and conditional-access security functions. The lease rates cable operators charge for this equipment are subject to rate regulation to the same extent as basic cable service. In 1996, Congress enacted a statute seeking to allow subscribers to use set-top boxes obtained from third party retailers. The most important of the FCC's implementing regulations requires cable operators to offer separate equipment providing only the security function (so that subscribers can purchase set-top boxes or other navigational devices from other sources) and to cease placing into service new set-top boxes that have integrated security. The regulations requiring cable operators to cease distributing new set-top boxes with integrated security are currently scheduled to go into effect on July 1, 2007. We expect to incur approximately $50 million in incremental set-top box costs during 2007 as a result of these regulations. In addition, the FCC ordered the cable industry to investigate and report on the possibility of implementing a downloadable security system that would be accessible to all set-top devices. If the implementation of such a system proves technologically feasible, this may eliminate the need for consumers to lease separate conditional-access security devices. On August 16, 2006, the National Cable and Telecommunications Association (the "NCTA") filed with the FCC a request that these rules be waived for all cable operators, including us, until a downloadable security solution
Set-top box regulation.  
Table of Contents
is available or December 31, 2009, whichever is earlier. No assurance can be given that the FCC will grant this or any other waiver request.
 
In December 2002, cable operators and consumer-electronics companies entered into a standard-setting agreement relating to interoperability between cable systems and reception equipment. Among other things, the agreement envisions consumer electronics devices with a slot for a conditional-access security carda CableCARDprovided by the cable operator. To implement the agreement, the FCC promulgated regulations that require cable systems with activated spectrum of 750 MHz or greater to: support unidirectional digital devices; establish a voluntary labeling system for unidirectional devices; prohibit so-called "selectable output controls"; and adopt content-encoding rules. The FCC has issued a further notice of proposed rulemaking to consider additional changes. Cable operators, consumer-electronics companies and other market participants are holding discussions that may lead to a similar set of interoperability agreements covering digital devices capable of carrying cable operators' two-way and interactive products and services.
TM
 
The Communications Act also includes provisions regulating customer service, subscriber privacy, marketing practices, equal employment opportunity, technical standards and equipment compatibility, antenna structure notification, marking, lighting, emergency alert system requirements and the collection from cable operators of annual regulatory fees, which are calculated based on the number of subscribers served and the types of FCC licenses held.
Other regulatory requirements of the Communications Act and the FCC.  
 
Separately, the FCC has adopted cable inside wiring rules to provide specific procedures for the disposition of residential home wiring and internal building wiring where a subscriber terminates service or where an incumbent cable operator is forced by a building owner to terminate service in a multiple dwelling unit building. The FCC has also adopted rules providing that, in the event that an incumbent cable operator sells the inside wiring, it must make the wiring available to the multiple dwelling unit owner or the alternative cable service provider during the period prior to the actual service termination by the incumbent, in order to avoid service interruption.
24-hour
 
Our cable systems provide subscribers with, among other things, local and distant television broadcast stations. We generally do not obtain a license to use the copyrighted performances contained in these stations' programming directly from program owners. Instead, we obtain this license pursuant to a compulsory license provided by federal law, which requires us to make payments to a copyright pool. The elimination or substantial modification of the cable compulsory license could adversely affect our ability to obtain suitable programming and could substantially increase the cost of programming that remains available for distribution to our subscribers.
Compulsory copyright licenses for carriage of broadcast stations and music performance licenses.  
 
When we obtain programming from third parties, we generally obtain licenses that include any necessary authorizations to transmit the music included in it. When we create our own programming and provide various other programming or related content, including local origination programming and advertising that we insert into cable-programming networks, we are required to obtain any necessary music performance licenses directly from the rights holders. These rights are generally controlled by three music performance rights organizations, each with rights to the music of various composers. We generally have obtained the necessary licenses, either through negotiated licenses or through procedures established by consent decrees entered into by some of the music performance rights organizations.
 
State and Local Regulation
 
Cable operators operate their systems under non-exclusive franchises. Franchises are awarded, and cable operators are regulated, by state franchising authorities, local franchising authorities, or both. We believe we generally have good relations with state and local cable regulators.
 
Franchise agreements typically require payment of franchise fees and contain regulatory provisions addressing, among other things, upgrades, service quality, cable service to schools and other public institutions, insurance and indemnity bonds. The terms and conditions of cable franchises vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The Communications Act provides protections against many unreasonable terms. In particular, the Communications Act imposes a ceiling on franchise fees of five percent of revenues derived from cable service. We generally pass the franchise fee on to our subscribers, listing it as a separate item on the bill.
Table of Contents
Franchise agreements usually have a term of ten to 15 years from the date of grant, although some renewals may be for shorter terms. Franchises usually are terminable only if the cable operator fails to comply with material provisions. We have not had a franchise terminated due to breach. After a franchise agreement expires, a local franchising authority may seek to impose new and more onerous requirements, including requirements to upgrade facilities, to increase channel capacity and to provide various new services. Federal law, however, provides significant substantive and procedural protections for cable operators seeking renewal of their franchises. In addition, although we occasionally reach the expiration date of a franchise agreement without having a written renewal or extension, we generally have the right to continue to operate, either by agreement with the local franchising authority or by law, while continuing to negotiate a renewal. In the past, substantially all of the material franchises relating to our systems have been renewed by the relevant local franchising authority, though sometimes only after significant time and effort. Recently, in adopting new regulations intended to limit the ability of local franchising authorities to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises (by, for example, imposing deadlines on franchise negotiations), the FCC announced the adoption of a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that concluded tentatively that these new regulations should also apply to existing franchisees, including cable operators, at the time of their next franchise renewal. The FCC indicated it would issue an order in the Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking within six months from release of the final order adopting the new regulations applicable to new entrants. Despite our efforts and the protections of federal law, it is possible that some of our franchises may not be renewed, and we may be required to make significant additional investments in our cable systems in response to requirements imposed in the course of the franchise renewal process.
 
Regulation of Telephony
 
As of February 1, 2007, it was unclear whether and to what extent regulators will subject services like our Digital Phone service ("Non-traditional Voice Services") to the regulations that apply to traditional, circuit-switched telephone service provided by incumbent telephone companies. In February 2004, the FCC opened a broad-based rulemaking proceeding to consider these and other issues. That rulemaking remains pending, but the FCC has issued a series of orders resolving discrete issues. For example, in November 2004, the FCC issued an order preempting state certification and tariffing requirements for certain kinds of Non-traditional Voice Services. The validity of this order has been appealed to a federal appellate court where a decision is pending. In May 2005, the FCC adopted rules requiring Non-traditional Voice Service providers to supply E911 capabilities as a standard feature to their subscribers and to obtain affirmative acknowledgement from all subscribers that they have been advised of the circumstances under which E911 service may not be available. In August 2005, the FCC adopted an order requiring certain types of Non-traditional Voice Services, as well as facilities-based broadband Internet access service providers, to assist law enforcement investigations through compliance with the Communications Assistance For Law Enforcement Act. In June 2006, the FCC adopted an order making clear that Non-traditional Voice Service providers must make contributions to the federal universal service fund. Certain other issues remain unclear, however, including whether the state and federal rules that apply to traditional, circuit-switched telephone service also apply to Non-traditional Voice Service providers and whether utility pole owners may charge cable operators offering Non-traditional Voice Services higher rates for pole rental than for traditional cable service and cable-modem service. One state public utility commission, for example, has determined that our Digital Phone service is subject to traditional, circuit-switched telephone regulations.
 
The Transactions
 
The following provides a more detailed description of the Transactions and contains summaries of the terms of the material agreements that were entered into in connection with the Transactions. This description does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the applicable agreements that are exhibits to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
Agreements with ACC
 
As described in more detail below, under separate agreements (as amended, the "TWC Purchase Agreement" and "Comcast Purchase Agreement," respectively, and, collectively, the "Purchase Agreements"), we and Comcast purchased substantially all of the cable assets of Adelphia. The Purchase Agreements were entered into after
Table of Contents
Adelphia filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code"). This section provides additional details regarding the Purchase Agreements and our and Comcast's underlying acquisition of Adelphia's assets (the "TWC Adelphia Acquisition" and the "Comcast Adelphia Acquisition," respectively), along with certain other agreements we entered into with Comcast.
 
  On April 20, 2005, Time Warner NY Cable LLC ("TW NY"), one of our subsidiaries, entered into the TWC Purchase Agreement with ACC. The TWC Purchase Agreement provided that TW NY would purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities from Adelphia. On June 21, 2006, ACC and TW NY entered into Amendment No. 2 to the TWC Purchase Agreement (the "TWC Amendment"). Under the terms of the TWC Amendment, the assets we acquired from Adelphia and the consideration to be paid to Adelphia remained unchanged. However, the TWC Amendment provided that the TWC Adelphia Acquisition would be effected in accordance with the provisions of sections 105, 363 and 365 of the Bankruptcy Code and, as a result, Adelphia's creditors were not required to approve a plan of reorganization under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code prior to the consummation of the TWC Adelphia Acquisition. The TWC Adelphia Acquisition closed on July 31, 2006, immediately after the Redemptions. The TWC Adelphia Acquisition included cable systems located in the following areas: West Palm Beach, Florida; Cleveland and Akron, Ohio; Los Angeles, California; and suburbs of the District of Columbia. As consideration for the assets purchased from Adelphia, TW NY assumed certain liabilities as specified in the TWC Purchase Agreement and paid to ACC approximately $8.9 billion in cash (including approximately $360 million paid into escrow), after giving effect to certain purchase price adjustments discussed below, and delivered 149,765,147 shares of our Class A common stock to ACC and 6,148,283 shares of our Class A common stock into escrow. This represents approximately 17.3% of our Class A common stock (including shares issued into escrow), and approximately 16% of our total outstanding common stock as of the closing of the TWC Adelphia Acquisition.
The TWC Purchase Agreement.
 
The purchase price is subject to customary adjustments to reflect changes in Adelphia's net liabilities and subscribers as well as any shortfall in Adelphia's capital expenditure spending relative to its budget during the interim period (the "Interim Period") between the execution of the TWC Purchase Agreement and the closing of the transactions contemplated by the TWC Purchase Agreement (the "Adelphia Closing"). The approximately $360 million in cash and 6 million shares of our Class A common stock that were deposited into escrow are securing Adelphia's obligations in respect of any post-closing adjustments to the purchase price and its indemnification obligations for, among other things, breaches of its representations, warranties and covenants contained in the TWC Purchase Agreement. One-third of the escrow, beginning with the cash amounts, was to be released on January 31, 2007 (six months after the Adelphia Closing) with the remaining amounts to be released on July 31, 2007 (12 months after the Adelphia Closing), in each case except to the extent of amounts paid prior to such date or that would be expected to be necessary to satisfy claims asserted on or prior to such date. On January 31, 2007, the escrow agent released to Adelphia approximately $172 million in cash, representing of the total amount of shares and cash placed into escrow.
one-third
 
The parties to the TWC Purchase Agreement made customary representations and warranties. ACC's representations and warranties survive for twelve months after the Adelphia Closing and, to the extent any claims are made prior to such date, until such claims are resolved. The debtors in Adelphia's bankruptcy proceedings (excluding, except to the extent provided in the TWC Purchase Agreement, the joint ventures described in "The Comcast Purchase Agreement" below), are jointly and severally liable for breaches or violations by ACC of its representations, warranties and covenants. The representations and warranties of TW NY contained in the TWC Purchase Agreement expired at the Adelphia Closing.
 
The TWC Purchase Agreement included customary and certain other covenants made by Adelphia and TW NY, including covenants that require Adelphia to deliver financial statements for the systems purchased sufficient to fulfill our obligations to provide such financial statements in connection with the distribution of our Class A common stock by ACC to certain of Adelphia's creditors.
 
The TWC Purchase Agreement requires ACC to indemnify TW NY and each of its affiliates (including us), their respective directors, officers, shareholders, agents and other individuals (the "TW Indemnified Parties") for losses and expenses stemming from the breach of any representation or warranty, covenant and certain other items. Subject to very limited exceptions, the TW Indemnified Parties are only able to seek reimbursement for losses from
Table of Contents
the escrowed cash and shares. In addition, subject to specified exceptions, losses associated with breaches of representations and warranties generally must exceed certain dollar amounts before a TW Indemnified Party may make a claim for indemnification. Even after the applicable threshold has been reached, a claim for indemnification for losses associated with breaches of representations and warranties is subject to specified aggregate deductibles and cap amounts. With respect to assets acquired from Adelphia by TW NY that were subsequently transferred to Comcast in the Exchange, ACC's indemnification obligation is subject to a threshold of $74 million, a deductible of $42 million and is capped at $296.7 million, subject to certain adjustments, and with respect to assets acquired by TW NY that were not transferred to Comcast pursuant to the Exchange, ACC's indemnification obligation is subject to a threshold of $67 million, a deductible of $38 million and is capped at $267.9 million, subject to certain adjustments.
 
The TWC Purchase Agreement required us, at the Adelphia Closing, to amend and restate our by-laws to restrict us and our subsidiaries from entering into transactions with or for the benefit of Time Warner and its affiliates other than us and our subsidiaries (the "Time Warner Group"), subject to specified exceptions. Additionally, prior to August 1, 2011 (five years following the Adelphia Closing), our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws (as required to be amended by the TWC Purchase Agreement) do not allow for an amendment to the provisions of our by-laws restricting these transactions without the consent of a majority of the holders of our Class A common stock, other than any member of the Time Warner Group. Additionally, under the TWC Purchase Agreement, we agreed that we will not enter into any short-form merger prior to August 1, 2008 (two years after the Adelphia Closing) and that we will not issue equity securities to any person (other than, subject to satisfying certain requirements, us and our affiliates) that have a higher vote per share than our Class A common stock prior to February 1, 2008 (18 months after the Adelphia Closing).
 
At the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, we and Adelphia entered into a registration rights and sale agreement (the "Adelphia Registration Rights and Sale Agreement"), which governed the disposition of the shares of our Class A common stock received by Adelphia in the TWC Adelphia Acquisition. Upon the effectiveness of Adelphia's plan of reorganization, the parties' obligations under the Adelphia Registration Rights and Sale Agreement terminated.
 
  Pursuant to the Parent Agreement among ACC, TW NY and us, dated as of April 20, 2005, we, among other things, guaranteed the obligations of TW NY to Adelphia under the TWC Purchase Agreement.
Parent Agreement.
 
  The Comcast Purchase Agreement has similar terms to the TWC Purchase Agreement and the transactions contemplated by the Comcast Purchase Agreement also closed on July 31, 2006. The Comcast Adelphia Acquisition was effected in accordance with the provisions of sections 105, 363 and 365 of the Bankruptcy Code and a plan of reorganization for the joint ventures referred to in the following sentence. The Comcast Adelphia Acquisition included cable systems and Adelphia's interest in two joint ventures in which Comcast also held interests: Century-TCI California Communications, L.P. (the "Century-TCI joint venture"), which owned cable systems in the Los Angeles, California area, and Parnassos Communications, L.P. (the "Parnassos joint venture"), which owned cable systems in Ohio and Western New York. The purchase price under the Comcast Purchase Agreement was approximately $3.6 billion in cash.
The Comcast Purchase Agreement.
 
TWC/Comcast Agreements
 
As described in more detail below, on the same day as the parties consummated the transactions governed by the Purchase Agreements, we and some of our affiliates (collectively, the "TWC Group") and Comcast consummated the TWC Redemption, the TWE Redemption and the Exchange (collectively, the "TWC/Comcast Transactions"). Under the terms of the agreement which governed the TWC Redemption (the "TWC Redemption Agreement"), we redeemed Comcast's investment in us in exchange for one of our subsidiaries that held both cable systems and cash. In accordance with the terms of the agreement which governed the TWE Redemption (the "TWE Redemption Agreement"), TWE redeemed Comcast's interest in TWE in exchange for one of TWE's subsidiaries that held both cable systems and cash. In accordance with the terms of the agreement which governed the Exchange (as amended, the "Exchange Agreement"), TW NY and Comcast transferred to one another subsidiaries that held certain cable systems, including cable systems acquired by each from Adelphia. The TWC
Table of Contents
Redemption Agreement, the TWE Redemption Agreement and the Exchange Agreement, are collectively referred to as the "TWC/Comcast Agreements."
 
  Pursuant to the TWC Redemption Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2005, as amended, among us and certain other members of the TWC Group and Comcast, the TWC Redemption was effected and Comcast's interest in us was redeemed on July 31, 2006, immediately prior to the Adelphia Acquisition. The TWC Redemption Agreement required that we redeem all of our Class A common stock held by TWE Holdings II Trust ("Comcast Trust II"), a trust that was established for the benefit of Comcast, in exchange for 100% of the common stock of Cable Holdco II Inc. ("Cable Holdco II"), then a subsidiary of ours. At the time of the TWC Redemption, Cable Holdco II held both certain cable systems previously owned directly or indirectly by us ("TWC Redemption Systems") serving approximately 589,000 basic subscribers and approximately $1.9 billion in cash, subject generally to the liabilities associated with the TWC Redemption Systems. Certain specified assets and liabilities of the TWC Redemption Systems were retained by us.
The TWC Redemption Agreement.
 
The TWC Redemption Agreement contains closing adjustments to be paid in cash based on (1) the relative growth or decline in the number of basic video subscribers served by the TWC Redemption Systems as compared to the relative growth or decline in the number of basic video subscribers served by the other cable systems operated by us and (2) the excess, if any, of the net liabilities of the TWC Redemption Systems over an agreed upon threshold amount.
 
The TWC Redemption Agreement contains various customary representations and warranties of the parties thereto including representations by us as to the absence of certain changes or events concerning the TWC Redemption Systems, compliance with law, litigation, employee benefit plans, property, intellectual property, environmental matters, financial statements, regulatory matters, taxes, material contracts, insurance and brokers. The representations and warranties of the parties to the TWC Redemption Agreement generally survive the closing of the TWC Redemption for a period of one year and certain representations and warranties either did not survive the closing of the TWC Redemption, survive indefinitely or survive until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (giving effect to any waiver, mitigation or extension thereof).
 
The TWC Redemption Agreement contains customary indemnification obligations on the part of the parties thereto with respect to breaches of representations, warranties and covenants and certain other matters, generally subject to a $20 million threshold and $200 million cap, with respect to certain of our representations and warranties regarding the TWC Redemption Systems and related matters, and with respect to certain representations and warranties of the Comcast parties relating to litigation, financial statements, finder's fees and certain regulatory matters.
 
  In connection with the closing of the TWC Redemption, we, Cable Holdco II and Comcast entered into the Holdco Tax Matters Agreement (the "TWC/Comcast Tax Matters Agreement"). The TWC/Comcast Tax Matters Agreement allocates responsibility for income taxes of Cable Holdco II and deals with matters relating to the income tax consequences of the TWC Redemption. This agreement contains representations, warranties and covenants relevant to such income tax treatment. The TWC/Comcast Tax Matters Agreement also contains indemnification obligations relating to the foregoing.
TWC/Comcast Tax Matters Agreement.
 
  Pursuant to the TWE Redemption Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2005, as amended, among us and Comcast, Comcast's interest in TWE was redeemed on July 31, 2006, immediately prior to the Adelphia Acquisition. Prior to the TWE Redemption, TWE Holdings I Trust ("Comcast Trust I"), a trust established for the benefit of Comcast, owned a 4.7% residual equity interest in TWE. Pursuant to the TWE Redemption Agreement, TWE redeemed all of the TWE residual equity interest held by Comcast Trust I in exchange for 100% of the limited liability company interests of Cable Holdco III LLC ("Cable Holdco III"), then a subsidiary of TWE. At the time of the TWE Redemption, Cable Holdco III held both certain cable systems previously owned or operated directly or indirectly by TWE (the "TWE Redemption Systems") serving approximately 162,000 subscribers and approximately $147 million in cash, subject generally to the liabilities associated with the TWE Redemption Systems. Certain specified assets and liabilities of the TWE Redemption Systems were retained by TWE.
The TWE Redemption Agreement.
Table of Contents
The TWE Redemption Agreement contains closing adjustments to be paid in cash based on (1) the relative growth or decline in the number of basic video subscribers served by the TWE Redemption Systems as compared to the relative growth or decline in the number of basic video subscribers served by the other cable systems owned by TWE and (2) the excess, if any, of the net liabilities of the TWE Redemption Systems over an agreed upon threshold amount.
 
The TWE Redemption Agreement contained various customary representations and warranties of the parties thereto including representations by TWE as to the absence of certain changes or events concerning the TWE Redemption Systems, compliance with law, litigation, employee benefit plans, property, intellectual property, environmental matters, financial statements, regulatory matters, taxes, material contracts, insurance and brokers. The representations and warranties of the parties to the TWE Redemption Agreement generally survive the closing of the TWE Redemption Agreement for a period of one year and certain representations and warranties either survive indefinitely or survive until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (giving effect to any waiver, mitigation or extension thereof).
 
The TWE Redemption Agreement contained customary indemnification obligations on the part of the parties thereto with respect to breaches of representations and warranties and covenants and certain other matters, generally subject to a $6 million threshold and $60 million cap, with respect to certain representations and warranties of TWE regarding the TWE Redemption Systems and related matters, and with respect to certain representations and warranties of the Comcast parties relating to litigation, financial statements, finder's fees and certain regulatory matters.
 
  Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2005, as amended, among us, TW NY and Comcast, the Exchange closed on July 31, 2006, immediately after the Adelphia Acquisition. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, TW NY transferred all outstanding limited liability company interests of certain newly formed limited liability companies (collectively, the "TW Newcos") to Comcast in exchange for all limited liability company interests of certain newly formed limited liability companies or limited partnerships, respectively, owned by Comcast (collectively, the "Comcast Newcos"). In addition, we paid Comcast approximately $67 million in cash for certain adjustments related to the Exchange. Included in the systems we acquired in the Exchange were cable systems (i) that were owned by the Century-TCI joint venture in the Los Angeles, California area and the Parnassos joint venture in Ohio and Western New York and (ii) then owned by Comcast located in the Dallas, Texas, Los Angeles, California, and Cleveland, Ohio areas.
The Exchange Agreement.
 
The Exchange Agreement contains various customary representations and warranties of the parties thereto (which generally survive for a period of 12 months after the closing of the Exchange), including representations concerning the cable systems subject to the Exchange Agreement originally owned by us or Comcast as to the absence of certain changes or events, compliance with law, litigation, employee benefit plans, property, intellectual property, environmental matters, financial statements, regulatory matters, taxes, material contracts, insurance and brokers. The Exchange Agreement also contained representations regarding the accuracy of certain of the representations of Adelphia set forth in the Purchase Agreements for events, circumstances and conditions occurring after the closing of the TWC Adelphia Acquisition.
 
The Exchange Agreement contains customary indemnification obligations on the part of the parties thereto with respect to breaches of representations, warranties, covenants and certain other matters. Each party's indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of representations and warranties (other than certain specified representations and warranties) are subject to (1) with respect to cable systems originally owned by us that were acquired by Comcast, a $5.7 million threshold and $19.1 million cap, (2) with respect to cable systems originally owned by Adelphia that were initially acquired by us pursuant to the TWC Purchase Agreement and then transferred to Comcast pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, a $74.6 million threshold and $746 million cap, (3) with respect to cable systems originally owned by Comcast that were acquired by us, a $41.5 million threshold and $415 million cap, and (4) with respect to cable systems originally owned by Adelphia that were initially acquired by Comcast pursuant to the Comcast Purchase Agreement and then transferred to us pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, a $34.9 million threshold and $349 million cap. In addition, no party is required to indemnify the other for breaches of representations, warranties or covenants relating to assets or liabilities initially acquired
Table of Contents
from Adelphia and then transferred to the other party, unless the breach is of a representation, warranty or covenant actually made by the party under the Exchange Agreement in relation to those Adelphia assets or liabilities.
 
Our Operating Partnerships and Joint Ventures
 
Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P.
 
TWE is a Delaware limited partnership that was formed in 1992. At the time of the restructuring of TWE, which was completed on March 31, 2003, (the "TWE Restructuring"), subsidiaries of Time Warner owned general and limited partnership interests in TWE consisting of 72.36% of the pro-rata priority capital and residual equity capital and 100% of the junior priority capital, and Comcast Trust I owned limited partnership interests in TWE consisting of 27.64% of the pro rata priority capital and residual equity capital. Prior to the TWE Restructuring, TWE's business consisted of interests in cable systems, cable networks and filmed entertainment.
 
Through a series of steps executed in connection with the TWE Restructuring, TWE transferred its non-cable businesses, including its filmed entertainment and cable network businesses, along with associated liabilities, to Warner Communications Inc. ("WCI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Time Warner, and the ownership structure of TWE was reorganized so that (i) we owned 94.3% of the residual equity interests in TWE, (ii) Comcast Trust I owned 4.7% of the residual equity interests in TWE and (iii) American Television and Communications Corporation ("ATC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Time Warner, owned 1.0% of the residual equity interests in TWE and $2.4 billion in mandatorily redeemable preferred equity issued by TWE. In addition, following the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner indirectly held shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock representing, in the aggregate, 89.3% of our voting power and 82.1% of our outstanding equity.
 
On July 28, 2006, the partnership interests and preferred equity originally held by ATC, were contributed to TW NY Cable Holding Inc. ("TW NY Holding"), a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, in exchange for a 12.4% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding (the "ATC Contribution") and upon the closing of the TWE Redemption, Comcast Trust I's ownership interest in TWE was redeemed. As a result, Time Warner has no direct interest in TWE and Comcast no longer has any interest in TWE. As of September 30, 2006, TWE had $3.2 billion in principal amount of outstanding debt securities with maturities ranging from 2008 to 2033 and fixed interest rates ranging from 7.25% to 10.15%. See "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionFinancial Condition and LiquidityTWE Notes and Debentures."
 
The TWE partnership agreement requires that transactions between us and our subsidiaries, on the one hand, and TWE and its subsidiaries on the other hand, be conducted on an arm's-length basis, with management, corporate or similar services being provided by us on a "no basis with fair allocations of administrative costs and general overhead. See "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionBusiness Transactions and DevelopmentsRestructuring of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P." and "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director IndependenceTWE" for additional information on TWE, the TWE Restructuring and the ATC Contribution.
mark-up"
 
Description of Certain Provisions of the TWE-A/N Partnership Agreement
 
The following description summarizes certain provisions of the partnership agreement relating to the Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership ("TWE-A/N"). Such description does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the TWE-A/N partnership agreement which is an exhibit to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
Partners of TWE-A/N
 
The general partnership interests in TWE-A/N are held by TW NY and an indirect subsidiary of TWE (such TWE subsidiary and TW NY are together, the "TW Partners") and the Advance/Newhouse Partnership ("A/N"), a partnership owned by wholly owned subsidiaries of Advance Publications Inc. and Newhouse Broadcasting Corporation. The TW Partners also hold preferred partnership interests.
Table of Contents
2002 Restructuring of TWE-A/N
 
The TWE-A/N cable television joint venture was formed by TWE and A/N in December 1995. A restructuring of the partnership was completed during 2002. As a result of this restructuring, cable systems and their related assets and liabilities serving approximately 2.1 million subscribers as of December 31, 2002 (which amount is not included in 4.0 million consolidated subscribers, as of September 30, 2006) located primarily in Florida (the "A/N Systems"), were transferred to a subsidiary of TWE-A/N (the "A/N Subsidiary"). As part of the restructuring, effective August 1, 2002, A/N's interest in TWE-A/N was converted into an interest that tracks the economic performance of the Systems, while the TW Partners retain the economic interests and associated liabilities in the remaining TWE-A/N cable systems. Also, in connection with the restructuring, we effectively acquired A/N's interest in Road Runner. financial results, other than the results of the A/N Systems, are consolidated with us. Road Runner continues to provide high-speed data services to the A/N Subsidiary.
TWE-A/N's
A/N
TWE-A/N's
 
Management and Operations of TWE-A/N
 
Subject to certain limited exceptions, a subsidiary of TWE is the managing partner, with exclusive management rights of TWE-A/N, other than with respect to the A/N Systems. Also, subject to certain limited exceptions, A/N has authority for the supervision of the operations of the A/N Subsidiary and the A/N Systems. In connection with the 2002 restructuring, TWE entered into a services agreement with A/N and the A/N Subsidiary under which TWE agreed to exercise various management functions, including oversight of programming and various engineering-related matters. TWE and A/N also agreed to periodically discuss cooperation with respect to new product development.
Management Powers and Services Agreement.  
day-to-day
 
Restrictions on Transfer
 
Each TW Partner is generally permitted to directly or indirectly dispose of its entire partnership interest at any time to a wholly owned affiliate of TWE (in the case of transfers by TWE-A/N Holdco, L.P. Holdco")) or to TWE, Time Warner or a wholly owned affiliate of TWE or Time Warner (in the case of transfers by us). In addition, the TW Partners are also permitted to transfer their partnership interests through a pledge to secure a loan, or a liquidation of TWE in which Time Warner, or its affiliates, receives a majority of the interests of TWE-A/N held by the TW Partners. TWE-A/N Holdco is allowed to issue additional partnership interests in TWE-A/N Holdco so long as Time Warner continues to own, directly or indirectly, either 35% or 43.75% of the residual equity capital of TWE-A/N Holdco, depending on when the issuance occurs.
TW Partners.  
("TWE-A/N
 
A/N is generally permitted to directly or indirectly transfer its entire partnership interest at any time to certain members of the Newhouse family or specified affiliates of A/N. A/N is also permitted to dispose of its partnership interest through a pledge to secure a loan and in connection with specified restructurings of A/N.
A/N Partner.  
 
Restructuring Rights of the Partners
 
TWE-A/N Holdco and A/N each has the right to cause TWE-A/N to be restructured at any time. Upon a restructuring, TWE-A/N is required to distribute the A/N Subsidiary with all of the A/N Systems to A/N in complete redemption of A/N's interests in TWE-A/N, and A/N is required to assume all liabilities of the A/N Subsidiary and the Systems. To date, neither TWE-A/N Holdco nor A/N has delivered notice of the intent to cause a restructuring of TWE-A/N.
A/N
 
Rights of First Offer
 
Subject to exceptions, A/N and its affiliates are obligated to grant TWE-A/N Holdco a right of first offer prior to any sale of assets of the A/N Systems to a third party.
TWE's Regular Right of First Offer.  
 
Within a specified time period following the first, seventh, thirteenth and nineteenth anniversaries of the deaths of two specified members of the Newhouse family (those deaths have not yet occurred), A/N has the right to deliver notice to TWE-A/N Holdco stating that it wishes to transfer some or all of the assets of the A/N Systems, thereby granting TWE-A/N Holdco the right of first offer to purchase the specified assets. Following delivery of this notice, an appraiser will determine the value of the assets proposed to be
TWE's Special Right of First Offer.  
Table of Contents
transferred. Once the value of the assets has been determined, A/N has the right to terminate its offer to sell the specified assets. If A/N does not terminate its offer, TWE-A/N Holdco will have the right to purchase the specified assets at a price equal to the value of the specified assets determined by the appraiser. If TWE-A/N Holdco does not exercise its right to purchase the specified assets, the right to sell the specified assets to an unrelated third party within 180 days on substantially the same terms as were available to TWE.
A/N has
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Current Report on contains "forward-looking statements," particularly statements anticipating future growth in revenues, cash provided by operating activities and other financial measures. Words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes" and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on management's present expectations and beliefs about future events. As with any projection or forecast, they are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and changes in circumstances, and we are under no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any obligation to, update or alter our forward-looking statements whether as a result of such changes, new information, subsequent events or otherwise.
Form 8-K
 
In addition, we operate in a highly competitive, consumer and technology-driven and rapidly changing business. Our business is affected by government regulation, economic, strategic, political and social conditions, consumer response to new and existing products and services, technological developments and, particularly in view of new technologies, our continued ability to protect and secure any necessary intellectual property rights. Further, lower than expected valuations associated with our cash flows and revenues may result in our inability to realize the value of recorded intangibles and goodwill. Additionally, actual results could differ materially from our management's expectations due to the factors discussed in detail in "Risk Factors" below, as well as:
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
 
An investment in our Class A common stock involves risks. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Current Report on before investing in shares of our Class A common stock. Any of the risk factors we describe below could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline if one or more of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events. Some of the statements in "Risk Factors" are forward-looking statements. For more information about forward-looking statements, please see "BusinessCaution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements."
Form 8-K,
 
Risks Related to Competition
 
We face a wide range of competition, which could affect our future results of operations.
 
Our industry is and will continue to be highly competitive. Some of our principal competitorsin particular, direct broadcast satellite operators and incumbent local telephone companieseither offer or are making significant capital investments that will allow them to offer services that provide directly comparable features and functions to those we offer, and they are aggressively seeking to offer them in bundles similar to our own.
 
Incumbent local telephone companies have recently increased their efforts to provide video services. The two major incumbent local telephone companiesAT&T and Verizonhave both announced that they intend to make fiber upgrades of their networks, although each is using a different architecture. AT&T is expected to utilize one of a number of fiber architectures, including FTTN, and Verizon utilizes a fiber architecture known as FTTH. Some upgraded portions of these networks are or will be capable of carrying two-way video services that are technically comparable to ours, high-speed data services that operate at speeds as high or higher than those we make available to customers in these areas and digital voice services that are similar to ours. In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional phone services as well as bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies. In areas where they have launched video services, these parties are aggressively marketing video, voice and data bundles at entry level prices similar to those we use to market our bundles.
 
Our video business faces intense competition from direct broadcast satellite providers. These providers compete with us based on aggressive promotional pricing and exclusive programming (e.g., "NFL Sunday Ticket," which is not available to cable operators). Direct broadcast satellite programming is comparable in many respects to our analog and digital video services, including our DVR service. In addition, the two largest direct broadcast satellite providers offer some interactive programming features.
 
In some areas, incumbent local telephone companies and direct broadcast satellite operators have entered into arrangements that allow the telephone companies to offer synthetic bundles (i.e., video services provided principally by the direct broadcast satellite operator, and DSL and traditional phone service offered by the telephone companies). From a consumer standpoint, the synthetic bundles appear similar to our bundles and result in a single bill. AT&T is offering a service in some areas that utilizes direct broadcast satellite video but in an integrated package with AT&T's DSL product, which enables an Internet-based return path that allows the user to order a VOD-like product and other services that we provide using our two-way network.
co-marketing
 
We operate our cable systems under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local authorities. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an "overbuild." In some of our operating areas, other operators have overbuilt our systems and offer video, data voice services in competition with us.
and/or
 
In addition to these competitors, we face competition on individual services from a range of competitors. For instance, our video service faces competition from providers of paid television services (such as satellite master antenna services) and from video delivered over the Internet. Our high-speed data service faces competition from, among others, incumbent local telephone companies utilizing their fiber networks DSL lines, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and 3G wireless broadband services provided by mobile carriers such as Verizon Wireless, broadband over power line providers, and from providers of traditional Internet access. Our voice service faces competition for voice customers from incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers, Internet phone providers, such as Vonage, and others.
newly-upgraded
and/or
dial-up
Table of Contents
Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, voice or high-speed data services could have an adverse effect on our financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in our growth rates, reduce our revenues, reduce the number of our subscribers or reduce our ability to increase penetration rates for services. As we expand and introduce new and enhanced products and services, we may be subject to competition from other providers of those products and services, such as telecommunications providers, ISPs and consumer electronics companies, among others. We cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect our future financial results or return on capital expenditures.
 
Future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. For additional information regarding the regulatory and legal environment, see "Risks Related to Government Regulation" and "BusinessRegulatory Matters."
 
We operate our cable systems under franchises that are non-exclusive. State and local franchising authorities can grant additional franchises and foster additional competition.
 
Our cable systems are constructed and operated under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local governmental authorities. Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises. Consequently, competing operators may build systems in areas in which we hold franchises. In the past, competing operatorsmost of them relatively smallhave obtained such franchises and offered competing services in some areas in which we hold franchises. More recently, incumbent local telephone companies with significant resources, particularly Verizon and AT&T, have obtained or have sought to obtain such franchises in connection with or in preparation for offering of video, high speed data and digital voice services in some of our service areas. See "We face a wide range of competition, which could affect our future results of operations" above. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an "overbuild."
 
We face competition from incumbent local telephone companies and other overbuilders in many of the areas we serve, including within each of our five major geographic operating areas. In New York City, we face competition from Verizon and another overbuilder, RCN Corporation ("RCN"). In upstate New York, overbuild activity is focused primarily in the Binghamton and Rochester areas, where competitors include Delhi Telephone and Empire Video Corporation, respectively. In the Carolinas, a number of local telephone companies, including Horry Telephone Cooperative, Southern Coastal Cable and Knology, are offering competing services, principally in South Carolina. Our Ohio operations face competition from local telephone companies such as New Knoxville Telephone Company, Wide Open West, Telephone Service Company and Columbus Grove Telephone Company. Recently, AT&T was granted franchises in the Columbus area. There is also local telephone company and other overbuild competition in our Texas region in the areas of Dallas, San Antonio, Waco, Austin and other areas in south and west Texas that we serve. Competing providers include FISION, Grande Communications, Wide Open West, and Western Integrated Networks. AT&T and Verizon have also been granted state-issued franchises in Texas. In southern California, we face competition from RCN, AT&T and Verizon.
 
Additional overbuild situations may occur in these and our other operating areas. In particular, Verizon and AT&T have both indicated that they will continue to upgrade their networks to enable the delivery of video and high-speed data services, in addition to their existing telephone services. In addition, companies that traditionally have not provided cable services and that have substantial financial resources may also decide to obtain franchises and seek to provide competing services.
 
Increased competition from any source, including overbuilders, could require us to charge lower prices for existing or future services than we otherwise might or require us to invest in or otherwise obtain additional services more quickly or at higher costs than we otherwise might. These actions, or the failure to take steps to allow us to compete effectively, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations.
Table of Contents
We face risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology.
 
In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, our business is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. Our business competes with all other sources of entertainment and information delivery, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as VOD, new video formats, and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for our products and services, but also advertisers' willingness to purchase advertising from us. If we do not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our financial results could suffer.
 
Significant increases in the use of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could increase our costs.
 
The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks for our high-speed data business. Examples of such services include file sharing services, gaming services, the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download, as well as Internet phone services. If heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services grows beyond our current expectations, we may need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the bandwidth capacity of our systems or our customers may have a suboptimal experience when using our high-speed data service. Our ability to manage our network efficiently could be restricted by legislative efforts to impose so-called "net neutrality" requirements on cable operators. See "Risks Related to Government RegulationOur business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect our business."
peer-to-peer
 
Our competitive position could suffer if we are unable to develop a compelling wireless offering.
 
We offer high-quality information, entertainment and communication services over sophisticated broadband cable networks. We believe these networks currently provide the most efficient means to provide such services to consumers' homes. However, consumers are increasingly interested in accessing information, entertainment and communication services outside the home as well.
 
We are exploring various means by which we can offer our customers mobile services but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that any such services we offer will appeal to consumers. In November 2005, we and several other cable operators, together with Sprint, announced the formation of a joint venture that would develop integrated cable and wireless products that the venture's owners could offer to customers bundled with cable services. There can be no assurance that the joint venture will successfully develop any such products, that any products developed will be accepted by consumers or, even if accepted, that the offering will be profitable. A separate joint venture formed by the same parties participated in the recently completed FCC Auction 66 for Advanced Wireless Spectrum and was the winning bidder of 137 licenses. The FCC awarded these licenses to the venture on November 29, 2006. There can be no assurance that the venture will successfully develop mobile voice and related wireless services or otherwise benefit from the acquired spectrum.
 
Until recently, our telephone competitors have only been able to include mobile services in their offerings through relationships with affiliated wireless providers, which we do not believe have proven particularly compelling to consumers. However, we anticipate that, in the future, our competitors will either gain greater ownership of, or enter into more effective marketing arrangements with, these wireless providers. For instance, as a result of AT&T's recent acquisition of BellSouth Corp., it has acquired 100% ownership of Cingular Wireless, LLC, a wireless provider of which AT&T previously owned 60%. If our competitors begin to expand their service bundles to include compelling mobile features before we have developed an equivalent or more compelling offering, we may not be in a position to provide a competitive product offering and our business and financial results could suffer.
co-marketing
 
If we pursue wireless strategies intended to provide us with a competitive response to offerings such as those described above, there can be no assurance that such strategies will succeed. For instance, we could, in pursuing
Table of Contents
such a strategy, select technologies, products and services that fail to appeal to consumers. In addition, we could incur significant costs in gaining access to, developing and marketing, such services. If we incurred such costs, and the resulting products and services were not competitive with other parties' products or appealing to our customers, our business and financial results could suffer.
 
Additional Risks of Our Operations
 
Our business is characterized by rapid technological change, and if we do not respond appropriately to technological changes, our competitive position may be harmed.
 
We operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment and are, to a large extent, dependent on our ability to acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our services from those of our competitors. This may take long periods of time and require significant capital investments. In addition, we may be required to anticipate far in advance which technologies and equipment we should adopt for new products and services or for future enhancements of or upgrades to our existing products and services. If we choose technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to our customers than those chosen by our competitors, or if we offer products or services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our business and financial results could suffer.
 
Our competitive position also may be adversely affected by various timing factors, such as the ability of our competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than we do. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors' product and service offerings also may require us in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services we currently offer to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of the costs for obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties could impact our ability to respond to technological advances in a timely manner.
 
The combination of increased competition, more technologically advanced platforms, products and services, the increasing number of choices available to consumers and the overall rate of change in media and entertainment industries requires companies such as us to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt more quickly to market conditions than has been necessary in the past. We could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same time maintaining our rates of growth and profitability.
 
We face certain challenges relating to the integration of the systems acquired in the Transactions into our existing systems, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Transactions.
 
The Transactions have combined cable systems that were previously owned and operated by three different companies. We expect that we will realize cost savings and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the Transactions. However, due to the complexity of and risks relating to the integration of these systems, among other factors, we cannot predict with certainty when these cost savings and benefits will occur or the extent to which they actually will be achieved, if at all.
 
The successful integration of the Acquired Systems will depend primarily on our ability to manage the combined operations and integrate into our operations the Acquired Systems (including management information, marketing, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, customer support and product distribution infrastructure, personnel, payroll and benefits, regulatory compliance and technology systems), as well as the related control processes. The integration of these systems, including the upgrade of certain portions of the Acquired Systems, requires significant capital expenditures and may require us to use financial resources we would otherwise devote to other business initiatives, including marketing, customer care, the development of new products and services and the expansion of our existing cable systems. While we have planned for certain capital expenditures for, among other things, improvements to plant and technical performance and upgrading system capacity of the Acquired Systems, we may be required to spend more than anticipated for those purposes. Furthermore, these integration efforts may require more attention from our management and impose greater strains on our technical resources than anticipated. If we fail to successfully integrate the Acquired Systems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.
Table of Contents
Additionally, to the extent we encounter significant difficulties in integrating systems or other operations, our customer care efforts may be hampered. For instance, we may experience call volumes under such circumstances, which might interfere with our ability to take orders, assist customers not impacted by the integration difficulties, and conduct other ordinary course activities. In addition, depending on the scope of the difficulties, we may be the subject of negative press reports or customer perception.
higher-than-normal
 
We have entered into transitional services arrangements with each of Adelphia and Comcast under which they have agreed to assist us by providing certain services to applicable Acquired Systems as we integrate those systems into our existing systems. Any failure by Adelphia or Comcast to perform under their respective agreements may cause the integration of the applicable Acquired Systems to be delayed and may increase the amount of time and money we need to devote to the integration of the applicable Acquired Systems.
 
We face risks inherent to our voice services line of business.
 
We may encounter unforeseen difficulties as we introduce our voice service in new operating areas, including the Acquired Systems, increase the scale of our voice service offerings in areas in which they have already been launched. First, we face heightened customer expectations for the reliability of voice services as compared with our video and high-speed data services. We have undertaken significant training of customer service representatives and technicians, and we will continue to need a highly trained workforce. To ensure reliable service, we may need to increase our expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the service is not sufficiently reliable or we otherwise fail to meet customer expectations, our voice services business could be adversely affected. Second, the competitive landscape for voice services is intense; we face competition from providers of Internet phone services, as well as incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers and others. See "Risks Related to CompetitionWe face a wide range of competition, which could affect our future results of operations." Third, our voice services depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties. As a result, our ability to implement changes as the service grows may be limited. Finally, we expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, we are unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on our voice business and operations.
and/or
 
In addition, our launch of voice services in the Acquired Systems may pose certain risks. We will be unable to provide our voice services in some of the Acquired Systems without first upgrading the facilities. Additionally, we may need to obtain certain services from third parties prior to deploying voice services in the Acquired Systems. If we encounter difficulties or significant delays in launching voice services in the Acquired Systems, our business and financial results may be adversely affected.
 
Our ability to attract new basic video subscribers is dependent in part on growth in new housing in our service areas.
 
Providing basic video services is an established and highly penetrated business. Approximately 85% of U.S. households are now receiving multi-channel video service. As a result, our ability to achieve incremental growth in basic video subscribers is dependent in part on growth in new housing in our service areas, which is influenced by various factors outside of our control, including both national and local economic conditions. If growth in new housing falls or if there are population declines in our operating areas, opportunities to gain new basic subscribers will decrease, which may have a material adverse effect on our growth, business and financial results or financial condition.
 
We rely on network and information systems and other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt our business.
 
Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to our operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as
Table of Contents
well as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on us and our customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers and revenues.
 
Furthermore, our operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. We could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage our reputation and credibility. We also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like ours that handle a large amount of personal customer data.
 
If we are unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees, our growth might be hindered, which could impede our ability to run our business and potentially reduce our revenues and profitability.
 
Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales, customer service and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of personnel. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the required personnel to conduct and expand our operations successfully and, in such an event, our revenues and profitability could decline. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team, including Messrs. Britt and Hobbs, with whom we have employment agreements. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other qualified employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose subscribers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems the loss of key employees. In addition, key personnel may leave us and compete against us.
and/or
 
Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends.
 
We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in our operations. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. Additionally, from time to time we receive notices from others claiming that we infringe their intellectual property rights, and the number of these claims could increase in the future. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require us to change our business practices and limit our ability to compete effectively. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our businesses. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, we rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. See also "Risks Related to Our Relationship with Time WarnerWe are party to agreements with Time Warner governing the use of our brand names, including the "Time Warner Cable" brand name, that may be terminated by Time Warner if we fail to perform our obligations under those agreements or if we undergo a change of control."
Table of Contents
The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses.
 
As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately $41.1 billion of unamortized intangible assets, including goodwill of $2.2 billion and cable franchises of $38.0 billion on our balance sheet. At September 30, 2006, these intangible assets represented approximately 74% of our total assets.
 
Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 142, ("FAS 142") requires that goodwill, including the goodwill included in the carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, such as franchise agreements, cease to be amortized. FAS 142 requires that goodwill and certain intangible assets be tested at least annually for impairment. If we find that the carrying value of goodwill or a certain intangible asset exceeds its fair value, we will reduce the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset to the fair value, and will recognize an impairment loss. Any such impairment losses are required to be recorded as noncash operating losses.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Our 2005 annual impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of 2005, did not result in an impairment charge. For all reporting units, the 2005 estimated fair values were within 10% of respective book values. Applying a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit would result in a greater book value than fair value for cable franchises in the amount of approximately $150 million. Other intangible assets not subject to amortization are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. See "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionCritical Accounting PoliciesAsset ImpairmentsGoodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets" and "Finite-lived Intangible Assets." The Redemptions were a triggering event for testing goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment. Accordingly, we updated our annual impairment tests and such tests did not result in an impairment charge.
 
The impairment tests require us to make an estimate of the fair value of intangible assets, which is primarily determined using discounted cash flow methodologies, research analyst estimates, market comparisons and a review of recent transactions. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, including those set forth in this discussion of "Risk Factors" and in "BusinessCaution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements," we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such impairment would result in us recognizing a corresponding operating loss, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock.
 
The IRS and state and local tax authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange, or our related valuations, and any successful challenge by the IRS or state or local tax authorities could materially adversely affect our tax profile, significantly increase our future cash tax payments and significantly reduce our future earnings and cash flow.
 
The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Tax Code"), the TWE Redemption was designed as a redemption of Comcast's partnership interest in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") or state or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the "Tax Authorities") will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or our related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect our tax profile (including our ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from the Transactions), significantly increase our future cash tax payments and significantly reduce our future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation.
Table of Contents
A significant portion of our indebtedness will mature over the next three to five years. If we are unable to refinance this indebtedness on favorable terms our financial condition and results of operations may suffer.
 
As of September 30, 2006, we had $14.7 billion in long-term debt. In particular, we are the borrower under two $4.0 billion term loan facilities and a $6.0 billion revolving credit facility, which become due in February 2009, February 2011 and February 2011, respectively, as well as an issuer of commercial paper. In addition, TWE's 7.25% senior debentures with a principal amount of $600 million will mature in 2008. No assurance can be given that we will be able to refinance our or our subsidiaries' existing indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness could be affected by many factors, including adverse developments in the lending markets and other external factors which are beyond our control. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, our cost of financing could increase significantly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and financial condition. See "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionFinancial Condition and Liquidity."
 
As a result of the indebtedness incurred in connection with the Transactions, we will be required to use an increased amount of the cash provided by our operating activities to service our debt obligations, which could limit our flexibility to grow our business and take advantage of new business opportunities.
 
Borrowings under our bank credit agreements and commercial paper program increased from $1.1 billion at December 31, 2005 to $11.3 billion at September 30, 2006, primarily in order to fund a large portion of the cash payments made in connection with the Transactions. As a result, our obligations to make principal and interest payments related to our indebtedness have increased. Our increased amount of indebtedness and debt servicing obligations will require us to dedicate a larger amount of our cash flow from operations to making payments on our indebtedness than we have in the past. This reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes, may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, may limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions or pursue other business opportunities and may limit our ability to borrow additional funds and may increase the cost of any such borrowings.
 
Risks Related to Dependence on Third Parties
 
Increases in programming costs could adversely affect our operations, business or financial results.
 
Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, one of our largest operating expense items for the foreseeable future. In recent years, we have experienced sharp increases in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. The increases are expected to continue due to a variety of factors, including inflationary and negotiated annual increases, additional programming being provided to subscribers, and increased costs to purchase new programming.
 
Programming cost increases that are not passed on fully to our subscribers have had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on cash flow and operating margins. Current and future programming providers that provide content that is desirable to our subscribers may enter into exclusive affiliation agreements with our cable and non-cable competitors and may be unwilling to enter into affiliation agreements with us on acceptable terms, if at all.
 
In addition, increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent could further increase our programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between "must-carry" rights and an alternative "retransmission-consent" regime. When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station's signal without the station's permission. We currently have multi-year agreements with most of the retransmission consent stations that we carry. In some cases, we carry stations under short-term arrangements while we attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to subscribers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have
Table of Contents
an interest. Carriage of these other services may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.
 
We depend on third party suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
 
We depend on third party suppliers and licensors to supply some of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services. We obtain these materials from a limited number of vendors, some of which do not have a long operating history. Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If demand exceeds these vendors' capacity or if these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials might delay the provision of services. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract subscribers, and have a material negative impact on our operations, business, financial results and financial condition. A limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs. For these reasons, we generally endeavor to establish alternative vendors for materials we consider critical, but may not be able to establish these relationships or be able to obtain required materials on favorable terms.
 
For example, each of our systems currently purchases set-top boxes from a limited number of vendors. This is due to the fact that each of our cable systems uses one of two proprietary conditional access security schemes, which allow us to regulate subscriber access to some services, such as premium channels. We believe that the proprietary nature of these conditional access schemes makes other manufacturers reluctant to produce set-top boxes. Future innovation in set-top boxes may be restricted until these issues are resolved. In addition, we believe that the general lack of compatibility among set-top box operating systems has slowed the industry's development and deployment of digital set-top box applications. We have developed a proprietary user interface and interactive programming guide that we expect to introduce in most of our operating areas during 2007. No assurance can be given that our proprietary interface and guide will operate correctly, will be popular with consumers or will be compatible with other products and services that our customers value.
 
In addition, we have agreements with Verizon and Sprint under which these companies assist us in providing Digital Phone service to customers by routing voice traffic to the public switched network, delivering enhanced 911 service and assisting in local number portability and long distance traffic carriage. In July 2006, we agreed to expand our multi-year relationship with Sprint, selecting Sprint as our primary provider of these services, including in the Acquired Systems. Our transition to and reliance on a single provider for the bulk of these services may render us vulnerable to service disruptions.
 
In addition, in some limited areas, as a result of rulings of the applicable state public utility commissions, Verizon and Sprint cannot provide us with certain of their services, including those that use interconnection obtained from certain local telephone companies. While we have filed a petition with the FCC requesting clarification that Verizon and Sprint are entitled to provide these services to us and, in the interim, plan to continue to provide our Digital Phone service in these limited areas by obtaining interconnection directly from the local telephone companies and providing our own 911 connectivity and number portability, our inability to use Sprint and Verizon for these services could negatively impact our ability to offer Digital Phone in certain areas as well as the cost of providing our service.
 
We may encounter substantially increased pole attachment costs.
 
Under federal law, we have the right to attach cables carrying video services to the telephone and similar poles of investor-owned utilities at regulated rates. However, because these cables carry services other than video services, such as high-speed data services or new forms of voice services, some utility pole owners have sought to impose additional fees for pole attachment. The U.S. Supreme Court has rejected the efforts of some utility pole
Table of Contents
owners to make cable attachments carrying Internet traffic ineligible for regulatory protection. Pole owners have, however, made arguments in other areas of pole regulation that, if successful, could significantly increase our costs. In addition, our pole attachment rates may increase insofar as our systems are providing voice services.
 
Some of the poles we use are exempt from federal regulation because they are owned by utility cooperatives and municipal entities. These entities may not renew our existing agreements when they expire, and they may require us to pay substantially increased fees. A number of these entities are currently seeking to impose substantial rate increases. Any inability to secure continued pole attachment agreements with these cooperatives or municipal utilities on commercially reasonable terms could cause our business, financial results or financial condition to suffer.
 
The adoption of, or the failure to adopt, certain consumer electronics devices or computers may negatively impact our offerings of new and enhanced services.
 
Customer acceptance and use of new and enhanced services depend, to some extent, on customers having ready access and exposure to these services. One of the ways this access is facilitated is through the user interface included in our digital set-top boxes. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 52% of our basic video subscribers leased one or more digital set-top boxes from us. The consumer electronics industry's provision of "cable ready" and "digital cable ready" televisions and other devices, as well as the IT industry's provision of computing devices capable of tuning, storing and displaying cable video signals, means customers owning these devices may use a different user interface from the one we provide may not be able to access services requiring two way transmission capabilities unless they also have a set-top box. Accordingly, customers using these devices without set-top boxes may have limited exposure and access to our advanced video services, including our interactive program guide and VOD and SVOD. If such devices attain wide consumer acceptance, our revenue from equipment rental and two way transmission-based services could decrease, and there could be a negative impact on our ability to sell advanced services to customers. We cannot predict the extent to which different interfaces will affect our future business and operations. See "BusinessRegulatory MattersCommunications Act and FCC Regulation."
and/or
 
We and other cable operators are involved in various efforts to ensure that consumer electronics and IT industry devices are capable of utilizing our two-way services, including: direct arrangements with a handful of consumer electronics companies that have led to the imminent deployment of a limited number of two-way capable televisions and other devices; continuing efforts (unsuccessful to date) to negotiate two-way interoperability standards with the broad consumer electronics industry; the development of an open software architecture layer that such devices could use to accept two-way applications; and an effort to develop a downloadable security system for consumer electronics devices. No assurances can be given that these or other efforts will be successful or that, if successful, consumers will widely adopt devices utilizing these technologies.
 
Risks Related to Government Regulation
 
Our business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect our business.
 
Our video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. In addition, the federal government also has been exploring possible regulation of high-speed data services. We expect that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, data and voice services under the Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that we have not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect our business operations in areas such as:
 
Table of Contents
 
At the state level, several states, including California, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas have enacted statutes intended to streamline entry by additional video competitors. Some of these statutes provide more favorable treatment to new entrants than to existing providers. Similar bills are pending or may be enacted in additional states. To the extent federal or state laws or regulations facilitate additional competitive entry or create more favorable regulatory treatment for new entrants, our operations could be materially and adversely affected.
 
 
"Net neutrality" legislation or regulation could limit our ability to operate our high-speed data business profitably, to manage our broadband facilities efficiently and to make upgrades to those facilities sufficient to respond to growing bandwidth usage by our high-speed data customers.
 
Several disparate groups have adopted the term "net neutrality" in connection with their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that could limit the ability of broadband providers to manage their networks efficiently and profitably. Although the positions taken by these groups are not well defined and sometimes inconsistent with one another, most would directly or indirectly limit the ability of broadband providers to apply
Table of Contents
differential pricing or network management policies to different uses of the Internet. Proponents of such regulation also seek to prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers. The average bandwidth usage of our high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as the amount of high-bandwidth content and the number of applications available on the Internet continues to grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, we need the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make upgrades to our broadband facilities. As a result, depending on the form it might take, "net neutrality" legislation or regulation could impact our ability to operate our high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services. We are unable to predict the likelihood that such regulatory proposals will be adopted. For a description of current regulatory proposals, see "BusinessRegulatory MattersCommunications Act and FCC Regulation."
 
Rate regulation could materially adversely impact our operations, business, financial results or financial condition.
 
Under current FCC regulations, rates for "basic" video service and associated equipment are permitted to be regulated. In many localities, we are not subject to basic video rate regulation, either because the local franchising authority has not asked the FCC for permission to regulate rates or because the FCC has found that there is "effective competition." Also, there is currently no rate regulation for our other services, including high-speed data services. It is possible, however, that the FCC or Congress will adopt more extensive rate regulation for our video services or regulate other services, such as high-speed data and voice services, which could impede our ability to raise rates, or require rate reductions, and therefore could cause our business, financial results or financial condition to suffer.
 
Changes in carriage regulations could impose significant additional costs on us.
 
Although we would likely choose to carry almost all local full power analog broadcast signals voluntarily, so called "must carry" rules require us to carry video programming that we might not otherwise carry, including some local broadcast television signals on some of our cable systems. In addition, we are required to carry local public, educational and government access video programming and unaffiliated commercial leased access video programming. These regulations require us to use a substantial part of our capacity for this video programming and, for the most part, we must carry this programming without payment or compensation from the programmer.
 
Our carriage burden might increase due to changes in regulation in connection with the transition to digital broadcasting. FCC regulations require most television broadcast stations to broadcast in digital format as well as in analog format until digital broadcasting becomes widely accepted by television viewers. After this transition period, digital broadcasters must cease broadcasting in analog format. The FCC has concluded that, during the transition period, cable operators will not be required to carry the digital signals of broadcasters that are broadcasting in both analog and digital format. Only the few stations that broadcast solely in digital format will be entitled to carriage of their digital signals during the transition period. Some broadcast parties have asked that the FCC reconsider that determination. If the FCC does so and changes the decision, our carriage burden could increase significantly.
 
We expect that, once the digital transition is complete, cable operators will be required to carry most local broadcasters' digital signals. We are uncertain whether that requirement will be more onerous than the carriage requirement concerning analog signals. Under the current regulations, each broadcaster is allowed to use the digital spectrum allocated to it to transmit either one "high definition" program stream or multiple separate "standard definition" program streams. The FCC has determined that cable operators will have to carry only one program stream per broadcaster. Some broadcast parties have asked the FCC to reconsider that determination. If the FCC does so and changes the decision, we could be compelled to carry more programming over which we are not able to assert editorial control. Consequently, our mix of programming could become less attractive to subscribers. Moreover, if the FCC adopts rules that are not competitively neutral, cable operators could be placed at a disadvantage versus other multi-channel video providers.
Table of Contents
It is not clear whether cable operators may "down convert" must-carry digital signals after the transition to digital broadcasts is complete to ensure they can be viewed by households that do not have digital equipment. If the FCC interprets the relevant statute, or if Congress clarifies the statute, with the result that such down conversion is not permitted, we could be required to incur additional costs to deliver the signals to non-digital homes.
 
We may have to pay fees in connection with our cable modem service.
 
Local franchising authorities generally require cable operators to pay a franchise fee of five percent of revenue, which cable operators collect in turn from their subscribers. We have taken the position that under the Communications Act, local franchising authorities are allowed to impose a franchise fee only on revenue from "cable services." Following the FCC's March 2002 determination that cable modem service does not constitute a "cable service," we and most other multiple system operators stopped collecting and paying franchise fees on cable modem revenue.
 
The FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding to explore the consequences of its March 2002 order. If either the FCC or a court were to determine that, despite the March 2002 order, we are required to pay franchise fees on cable modem revenue, our franchise fee burden could increase going forward. We would be permitted to collect those increased fees from our subscribers, but doing so could impair our competitive position as compared to high-speed data service providers who are not required to collect and pay franchise fees. We could also become liable for franchise fees back to the time we stopped paying them. We may not be able to recover those fees from subscribers.
 
The FCC's set-top box rules could impose significant additional costs on us.
 
Currently, many cable subscribers rent set-top boxes from us that perform both signal-reception functions and conditional-access security functions, as well as enable delivery of advanced services. In 1996, Congress enacted a statute seeking to allow cable subscribers to use set-top boxes obtained from certain third parties, including third-party retailers. The most important of the FCC's implementing regulations requires cable operators to offer separate equipment which provides only the security functions and not the signal-reception functions (so that cable subscribers can purchase set-top boxes or other navigational devices from third parties) and to cease placing into service new set-top boxes that have integrated security and signal-reception functions. The regulations requiring cable operators to cease distributing new set-top boxes with integrated security and signal-reception functions are currently scheduled to go into effect on July 1, 2007. On August 16, 2006, the NCTA filed with the FCC a request that these rules be waived for all cable operators, including us, until a downloadable security solution is available or December 31, 2009, whichever is earlier. No assurance can be given that the FCC will grant this or any other waiver request.
 
Our vendors have not yet manufactured, on a commercial scale, set-top boxes that can support all the services that we offer while relying on separate security devices. It is possible that our vendors will be unable to deliver the necessary set-top boxes in time for us to comply with the FCC regulations. It is also possible that the FCC will determine that the set-top boxes that we eventually obtain are not compliant with applicable rules. In either case, the FCC may penalize us. In addition, design and manufacture of the new set-top boxes will come at a significant expense, which our vendors will seek to pass on to us, but which we in turn may not be able to pass onto our customers, thereby increasing our costs. We expect to incur approximately $50 million in incremental set-top box costs during 2007 as a result of these regulations. The FCC has indicated that direct broadcast satellite operators are not required to comply with the FCC's set-top box rules, and one telephone company has asked for a waiver of the rules. If we have to comply with the rule prohibiting set-top boxes with integrated security while our competitors are not required to comply with that rule, we may be at a competitive disadvantage.
 
Applicable law is subject to change.
 
The exact requirements of applicable law are not always clear, and the rules affecting our businesses are always subject to change. For example, the FCC may interpret its rules and regulations in enforcement proceedings in a manner that is inconsistent with the judgments we have made. Likewise, regulators and legislators at all levels of government may sometimes change existing rules or establish new rules. Congress, for example, considers new
Table of Contents
legislative requirements for cable operators virtually every year, and there is always a risk that such proposals will ultimately be enacted. See "BusinessRegulatory Matters."
 
Risks Related to Our Relationship with Time Warner
 
Some of our officers and directors may have interests that diverge from ours in favor of Time Warner because of past and ongoing relationships with Time Warner and its affiliates.
 
Some of our officers and directors may experience conflicts of interest with respect to decisions involving business opportunities and similar matters that may arise in the ordinary course of our business or the business of Time Warner and its affiliates. One of our directors is also an executive officer of Time Warner, another is an executive officer of a subsidiary of Time Warner that is a sister company of ours and four of our directors (including Glenn A. Britt, our President and Chief Executive Officer) served as executive officers of Time Warner or its predecessors in the past. A number of our directors and all of our executive officers also have restricted shares, restricted stock units options to purchase shares of Time Warner common stock. In addition, many of our directors and executive officers have invested in Time Warner common stock through their participation in Time Warner's and our savings plans. These past and ongoing relationships with Time Warner and any significant financial interest in Time Warner by these persons may present conflicts of interest that could materially adversely affect our business, financial results or financial condition. For example, these decisions could be materially related to:
and/or
 
 
Our restated certificate of incorporation does not contain any special provisions, other than the provisions with respect to future business opportunities described in the following risk factor and the independent director requirement described in the sixth risk factor below, to deal with these conflicts of interest.
 
Time Warner and its affiliates may compete with us in one or more lines of business and may provide some services under the "Time Warner" brand or similar brand names.
 
Time Warner and its affiliates are engaged in a diverse range of entertainment and media-related businesses, including filmed entertainment, home video and Internet-related businesses, and these businesses may have interests that conflict with or compete in some manner with our business. Time Warner and its affiliates are generally under no obligation to share any future business opportunities available to it with us and our restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that release Time Warner and its affiliates, including our directors who are also their employees or executive officers, from this obligation and any liability that would result from breach of this obligation. Time Warner may deliver video, high-speed data, voice and wireless services over DSL, satellite or other means using the "Time Warner" brand name or similar brand names, potentially causing confusion among customers and complicating our marketing efforts. For instance, Time Warner has licensed the use of "Time Warner Telecom," until July 2007, and "TW Telecom" and "TWTC" to Time Warner Telecom Inc., a former affiliate of Time Warner and a provider of managed voice and data networking solutions to enterprise organizations, which may compete with our commercial offerings. Any competition directly with Time Warner or its affiliates could materially adversely impact our business, financial results or financial condition.
 
We are party to agreements with Time Warner governing the use of our brand names, including the "Time Warner Cable" brand name, that may be terminated by Time Warner if we fail to perform our obligations under those agreements or if we undergo a change of control.
 
Some of the agreements governing the use of our brand names may be terminated by Time Warner if we:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
We license our brand name, "Time Warner Cable," and the trademark "Road Runner" from affiliates of Time Warner. We believe the "Time Warner Cable" and "Road Runner" brand names are valuable, and their loss could materially adversely affect our business, financial results or financial condition. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director IndependenceRelationship between Time Warner and UsTime Warner Brand and Trade Name License Agreement."
 
If Time Warner terminates these brand name license agreements, we would lose the goodwill associated with our brand names and be forced to develop new brand names, which would likely require substantial expenditures, and our business, financial results or financial condition would likely be materially adversely affected.
 
Time Warner controls approximately 90.6% of the voting power of our common stock and has the ability to elect a majority of our directors, and its interest may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.
 
Time Warner indirectly holds all of our outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 82.7% of our outstanding Class A common stock. The common stock held by Time Warner represents approximately 90.6% of our combined voting power and 84.0% of the total number of shares of capital stock outstanding of all classes of our voting stock. Accordingly, Time Warner can control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. In addition, Time Warner, because it is the indirect holder of all of our outstanding Class B common stock, and because it also indirectly holds more than a majority of our outstanding Class A common stock, is able to elect all of our directors and will continue to be able to do so as long as it owns a majority of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As a result of Time Warner's share ownership and representation on our board of directors, Time Warner is able to influence all of our affairs and actions, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of Time Warner may differ from the interests of our other stockholders.
 
Time Warner's approval right over our ability to incur indebtedness may harm our liquidity and operations and restrict our growth.
 
Under a shareholder agreement entered into between us and Time Warner on April 20, 2005 (the "Shareholder Agreement"), which became effective upon the closing of the TWC Redemption, until Time Warner no longer considers us to have an impact on its credit profile, we must obtain the approval of Time Warner prior to incurring additional debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or issuing preferred equity, if our consolidated ratio of debt, including preferred equity, plus six times our annual rental expense to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (each as defined in the Shareholder Agreement) ("EBITDA") plus rental expense, or "EBITDAR," then exceeds, or would as a result of that incurrence exceed, 3:1, calculated without including any of our indebtedness or preferred equity held by Time Warner and its wholly owned subsidiaries. On September 30, 2006, this ratio exceeded 3:1. Although Time Warner has consented to the issuance of commercial paper or borrowings under our current revolving credit facility up to the limit of that credit facility, any other incurrence of debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or the issuance of preferred stock in the future will require Time Warner's approval. For additional information regarding the terms of the Shareholder Agreement, see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director IndependenceRelationship between Time Warner and UsIndebtedness Approval Right" and "Other Time Warner Rights." As a result, we have a limited ability to incur future debt and rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) and issue preferred equity without the consent of Time Warner, which if needed to raise additional capital, could limit our flexibility in exploring and pursuing financing alternatives and could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock and our liquidity and operations and restrict our growth.
Table of Contents
Time Warner's capital markets and debt activity could adversely affect capital resources available to us.
 
Our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets and from other private sources may be adversely affected by future capital markets activity undertaken by Time Warner and its other subsidiaries. Capital raised by or committed to Time Warner for matters unrelated to us may reduce the supply of capital available for us as a result of increased leverage of Time Warner on a consolidated basis or reluctance in the market to incur additional credit exposure to Time Warner on a consolidated basis. In addition, our ability to undertake significant capital raising activities may be constrained by competing capital needs of other Time Warner businesses unrelated to ours. For instance, on November 13, 2006, Time Warner issued $5 billion in principal amount of notes and debentures with maturity dates ranging from November 2009 to November 2036. As of September 30, 2006, Time Warner had $2.5 billion of available borrowing capacity under its $7.0 billion committed credit facility, and we had approximately $2.5 billion of available borrowing capacity under our $14.0 billion committed credit facilities.
 
We will be exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since we will be a "controlled company" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") rules and, as a result, our stockholders will not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements.
 
Time Warner controls more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, we will be considered to be a "controlled company" for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements and therefore we will be permitted to, and we intend to, opt out of the NYSE listing requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors and our compensation and nominating and governance committees to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. However, our restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions requiring that independent directors constitute at least 50% of our board of directors. As a condition to the consummation of the Adelphia Acquisition, our certificate of incorporation provides that this provision may not be amended, altered or repealed, and no provision inconsistent with this requirement may be adopted, for a period of three years following the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition without, among other things, the consent of a majority of the holders of the Class A common stock other than Time Warner and its affiliates. See "Directors and Executive OfficersCorporate Governance."
 
Risk Factors Relating to Our Class A Common Stock
 
The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile.
 
The market price of our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the risks described in this "Risk Factors" section and the following:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
As a result of these factors, the price of our Class A common stock may be volatile.
 
There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our Class A common stock will develop.
 
Our Class A common stock has recently been trading in the over-the-counter market on a when-issued basis. We expect that our Class A common stock will continue to trade in the over-the-counter market until we are listed on the NYSE. Our Class A common stock has been approved for listing on the NYSE and we expect that it will begin trading on the NYSE in late February or early March 2007. However, we cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to the development of an active trading market on the NYSE or otherwise in the shares of our Class A common stock or how liquid that market might become. If an active trading market does not develop on the NYSE, stockholders may have difficulty selling any of our Class A common stock that they receive.
 
A large number of shares of our common stock are or will be eligible for future sale or distribution, which could depress the market price of our Class A common stock.
 
Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that a large number of shares will be sold, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. Approximately 84.0% of our outstanding common stock is held by Time Warner. None of the shares of our common stock held by Time Warner may be sold unless they are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or are sold under an exemption from registration, including in accordance with Rule 144 of the Securities Act. However, the common stock held by Time Warner is subject to a registration rights agreement that grants Time Warner demand and "piggyback" registration rights. For additional information regarding this registration rights agreement, see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director IndependenceRelationship between Time Warner and UsTime Warner Registration Rights Agreement." Subject to certain restrictions, Time Warner will be entitled to dispose of its shares in both registered and unregistered offerings and hedging transactions, although the shares of our common stock held by our affiliates, including Time Warner, will continue to be subject to volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, in accordance with Adelphia's plan of reorganization, some of the shares of our Class A common stock held by Adelphia will not be distributed to Adelphia's creditors for a number of months. Lastly, in accordance with the TWC Purchase Agreement, subject to the existence of any claims, the approximately 6 million shares placed into escrow will be released to Adelphia and subsequently distributed to its creditors on or shortly after July 31, 2007. Any sale or distribution of a large amount of our common stock may materially adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.
 
A change of control in our company cannot occur without the consent of Time Warner, and our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may discourage a takeover attempt and permit Time Warner to transfer control of our company to another party without the approval of our board of directors or other stockholders.
 
Time Warner can prevent a change in control in our company at its option. As the indirect holder of all outstanding Class B common stock, each share of which is granted ten votes, the consent of Time Warner would be required for any action involving a change of control. This concentration of ownership and voting may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control in our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for our Class A common stock as part of a sale or merger of us and may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Transactions that could be affected by this concentration of ownership include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give holders of our Class A common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for such shares. In addition, some of the other provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, including provisions relating to the nomination, election and removal of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, and may preclude holders of our Class A common stock from receiving any premium above market price for their shares that may be offered in connection with any attempt to acquire control of us.
Table of Contents
As a result of its controlling interest in us, Time Warner could oppose a third party offer to acquire us that other stockholders might consider attractive, and the third party may not be able or willing to proceed unless Time Warner supports the offer. In addition, if our board of directors supports a transaction requiring an amendment to our restated certificate of incorporation, Time Warner is currently in a position to defeat any required stockholder approval of the proposed amendment. If our board of directors supports an acquisition of our company by means of a merger or a similar transaction, the vote of Time Warner alone is currently sufficient to approve (subject to the restrictions on transactions with or for the benefit of Time Warner Group) or block the transaction under Delaware law. In each of these cases and in similar situations, our stockholders may disagree with Time Warner as to whether the action opposed or supported by Time Warner is in the best interest of our stockholders.
 
Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws do not prohibit transfers of our Class B common stock by Time Warner. Our Class B common stock indirectly held by Time Warner is not convertible into our Class A common stock, whether upon a transfer of those shares by Time Warner to a third party or otherwise. Therefore, if Time Warner transfers all or a majority of our Class B common stock, the transferee will be entitled to elect not less than four-fifths of our directors and to cast ten votes per share of our Class B common stock.
 
In addition, we have opted out of section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware General Corporation Law"), which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination transaction with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the interested stockholder became such. Under the Shareholder Agreement, so long as Time Warner has the right to elect a majority of our directors, we may not adopt a stockholder rights plan, become subject to section 203, adopt a "fair price" provision or take any similar action without the consent of Time Warner. However, under the Shareholder Agreement, for a period of 10 years after the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, Time Warner may not enter into any business combination with us, including a short-form merger, without the approval of a majority of our independent directors.
 
Therefore, Time Warner is able to transfer control of us to a third party by transferring our Class B common stock, which would not require the approval of our board of directors or our other stockholders. Additionally, such a change of control may not involve a merger or other transaction that would require payment of consideration to the holders of our Class A common stock. The possibility that such a change of control could occur may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Our selected financial and subscriber data are set forth in the following tables. The balance sheet data as of December 31, 2001 and 2002 and the statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002 have been derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements for such periods not included in this Current Report on The balance sheet data as of December 31, 2003 have been derived from our audited financial statements not included in this Current Report on The balance sheet data as of December 31, 2004 and 2005 and the statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere in this Current Report on The balance sheet data as of September 30, 2006 and the statement of operations data for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2006 have been derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Current Report on The balance sheet data as of September 30, 2005 have been derived from our unaudited financial statements not included in this Current Report on In the opinion of management, the unaudited financial data reflect all adjustments, consisting of normal and recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of our results of operations for those periods. Our results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results that can be expected for the full year or for any future period.
Form 8-K.
Form 8-K.
Form 8-K.
Form 8-K.
Form 8-K.
 
Our financial statements for all periods prior to the TWE Restructuring, which was completed in March 2003, represent the combined consolidated financial statements of the cable assets of TWE and TWI Cable Inc. ("TWI Cable"), each of which was an entity under the common control of Time Warner. The operating results of all the non-cable businesses of TWE that were transferred to Time Warner in the TWE Restructuring have been reflected as a discontinued operation. For additional information regarding the TWE Restructuring, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionBusiness Transactions and DevelopmentsRestructuring of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P." The financial statements include all push-down accounting adjustments resulting from the merger in 2001 between AOL and Historic TW Inc. (formerly known as Time Warner Inc., "Historic TW") (the "AOL Merger") and account for the economic stake in TWE that was held by Comcast as a minority interest. Additionally, the income tax provisions, related tax payments, and current and deferred tax balances have been presented as if we operated as a stand-alone taxpayer. In the first quarter of 2006, we elected to adopt the modified retrospective application method provided by FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), ("FAS 123R") and, accordingly, financial statement amounts for all prior periods presented herein reflect results as if the fair value method of expensing had been applied from the original effective date of FASB Statement No. 123, ("FAS 123") (see Note 1 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, each of which is included elsewhere in this Current Report on for a discussion on the impact of the adoption of FAS 123R). See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionRecently Adopted Accounting PrinciplesStock-based Compensation."
Share-based Payment
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Form 8-K,
 
In the third quarter of 2006, we determined we would restate our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006, as a result of the findings of an independent examiner appointed under the terms of a settlement between Time Warner and the SEC (see Note 1 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, each of which is included elsewhere in this Current Report on for a discussion on the impact of the restatement on our consolidated financial statements). See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionOverviewRestatement of Prior Financial Information."
Form 8-K,
 
In addition, our financial statements reflect the treatment of certain cable systems transferred to Comcast in connection with the Redemptions and the Exchange as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
The subscriber data set forth below covers cable systems serving 12.6 million basic video subscribers, as of September 30, 2006, whose results are consolidated with ours, as well as approximately 782,000 basic video subscribers served by the Kansas City Pool that were managed by us but whose results were not consolidated with
Table of Contents
ours for the periods presented. In connection with its pending dissolution, on January 1, 2007, TKCCP distributed its assets to its partners. On that date we received the Kansas City Pool and Comcast received the Houston Pool. The subscriber data presented below does not include subscribers in the Houston Pool, which as of September 30, 2006, served approximately 791,000 basic video subscribers. Prior to the distribution of the Houston Pool to Comcast, we had managed the Houston Pool but did not consolidate its results. Subscriber amounts for all periods presented have been recast to include the subscribers in the Kansas City Pool and to exclude subscribers that were transferred to Comcast in connection with the Redemptions and the Exchange, which have been presented as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. For additional discussion of this joint venture, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionBusiness Transactions and DevelopmentsJoint Venture Dissolution."
Table of Contents
The following information should be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" below and our audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
NANot applicable.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet of our company as of September 30, 2006 is presented as if the dissolution of TKCCP, including the distribution of a portion of TKCCP's assets to us, had occurred on September 30, 2006. The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations of our company for the year ended December 31, 2005 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 are presented as if the Transactions and the dissolution of TKCCP, including the distribution of a portion of TKCCP's assets to us, had occurred on January 1, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented based on information available, is intended for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of and does not purport to represent what our future financial condition or operating results
Table of Contents
will be after giving effect to the Transactions and the dissolution of TKCCP and does not reflect actions that may be undertaken by management in integrating these businesses (e.g., the cost of incremental capital expenditures). Additionally, this information does not reflect financial and operating benefits we expect to realize as a result of the Transactions and the dissolution of TKCCP, including the distribution of a portion of TKCCP's assets to us. For additional information on the Transactions and the dissolution of TKCCP, see "BusinessThe Transactions" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionBusiness Transactions and DevelopmentsJoint Venture Dissolution."
 
Our, Comcast's and Adelphia's independent registered public accounting firms have not examined, reviewed, compiled or applied agreed upon procedures to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented herein and, accordingly, assume no responsibility for them. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the systems acquired by us includes certain allocated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We believe such allocations are made on a reasonable basis.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information set forth below should be read in conjunction with "Selected Historical Consolidated Financial and Subscriber Data," our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, the notes to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," each of which is included elsewhere in this Current Report on Form and ACC's consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and Comcast's "Special Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas & Cleveland Cable System Operations (A Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation)" and the notes thereto, each of which is included as an exhibit to this Current Report on
8-K,
Form 8-K.
 
The following is a brief description of the amounts recorded under each of the column headings in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations:
 
     
Historical TWC
 
This column reflects our historical financial position as of September 30, 2006 and our historical operating results for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and represents our unaudited interim financial statements, prior to any adjustments for the Transactions, the dissolution of TKCCP and the distribution of a portion of TKCCP's assets to us. Our historical operating results for the year ended December 31, 2005 are derived from our audited financial statements prior to any adjustments for the Transactions, the dissolution of TKCCP and the distribution of a portion of TKCCP's assets to us. In addition, our historical results have been recast to reflect the presentation of certain cable systems transferred to Comcast in the Redemptions and the Exchange as discontinued operations.
 
     
Historical Adelphia
 
This column reflects Adelphia's historical operating results for the seven months ended July 31, 2006, and represents Adelphia's unaudited interim financial statements as reported by Adelphia in its for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, which were prepared by Adelphia. The historical operating results for the year ended December 31, 2005 represent Adelphia's audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, which were prepared by Adelphia, prior to any adjustments for the Transactions. This column includes amounts relating to systems that were not acquired and retained by us, but instead were acquired by Comcast (as part of the Adelphia Acquisition or the Exchange) or that will be retained by Adelphia and, thus, will be excluded from our unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information through the adjustments made in the "Less Items Not Acquired" column described below.
Form 10-Q
 
     
Comcast Historical Systems
 
This column represents the historical operating results for the seven months ended July 31, 2006 of the cable systems previously owned by Comcast in Dallas, Cleveland and Los Angeles, which were transferred to us in the Exchange (the "Comcast Historical Systems"). The operating results for the first six months of 2006 were derived from Comcast's unaudited interim Special Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas & Cleveland Cable System Operations (A Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation), which were prepared by Comcast, prior to any adjustments for the Transactions. The operating results for the month ended July 31, 2006
Table of Contents
were prepared by and provided to us by Comcast, prior to any adjustments for the Transactions. See Note 6 to our unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for additional information on the historical operating results for the seven months ended July 31, 2006. The historical operating results for the year ended December 31, 2005 were derived from Comcast's audited annual Special Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas & Cleveland Cable System Operations (A Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation), which were prepared by Comcast, prior to any adjustments for the Transactions. This column includes certain allocated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. This column also includes allocated amounts that were retained by Comcast and, thus, were not transferred to us in the Exchange and therefore, are excluded from our unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information through the adjustments made in the "Less Items Not Acquired" column described below.
 
     
Less Items Not Acquired
 
This column represents the unaudited historical operating results of the Adelphia systems up to the closing of the Transactions that were (i) received by us in the Adelphia Acquisition and then transferred to Comcast in the Exchange, (ii) acquired by Comcast in the Adelphia Acquisition and not transferred to us in the Exchange or (iii) retained by Adelphia after the Transactions. This column also includes certain items and allocated costs that were included in the Comcast Historical Systems financial information and the Adelphia Acquired Systems that were not acquired by us (collectively with the items in (i), (ii) and (iii) above, the "Items Not Acquired"). Specifically, the following items relate to the Comcast Historical Systems and the Adelphia Acquired Systems that were not transferred to us and, therefore, are included as part of this column:
 
 
For additional information on the "Items Not Acquired" see Note 5 to our unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
 
     
Subtotal of Net Acquired Systems
 
This column represents the unaudited historical operating results of the "Net Acquired Systems." This column includes the operating results of "Historical Adelphia" and the "Comcast Historical Systems" less the historical operating results of the "Items Not Acquired." This column does not include our historical operating results and is before the impact of pro forma adjustments.
 
     
Pro Forma AdjustmentsThe Transactions
 
This column represents pro forma adjustments related to the consummation of the Transactions, as more fully described in the notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
 
     
TKCCP Dissolution/Pro Forma AdjustmentsTKCCP
 
This column reflects the consolidation of the Kansas City Pool of TKCCP's cable systems. We began consolidating the Kansas City Pool on January 1, 2007, as a result of the distribution of these assets to us in connection with the pending dissolution of TKCCP. Prior to January 1, 2007, we accounted for our interest in TKCCP
Table of Contents
under the equity method of accounting. The TKCCP Dissolution column reflects the reversal of historical equity income and the consolidation of the operations of the Kansas City Pool. The Pro Forma AdjustmentsTKCCP column reflects the elimination of intercompany transactions between us and TKCCP. For additional information on the dissolution of TKCCP, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionBusiness Transactions and DevelopmentsJoint Venture Dissolution" and Note 4 to our unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Note 1:  Description of the Transactions
 
Contractual Purchase Price
 
On July 31, 2006, TW NY, a subsidiary of ours, purchased certain assets and assumed certain liabilities from Adelphia for a total of $8.935 billion in cash and shares representing 16% of our common stock. The 16% interest reflects 155,913,430 shares of Class A common stock issued to Adelphia, which were valued at $35.28 per share for purposes of the Adelphia Acquisition. The original cash cost of $9.154 billion was preliminarily reduced at closing by $219 million as a result of contractual adjustments, which resulted in a net cash payment by TW NY of $8.935 billion for the Adelphia Acquisition. A summary of the purchase price is set forth below:
 
 
 
 
Redemptions
 
Immediately prior to the Adelphia Acquisition on July 31, 2006, we and our subsidiary, TWE, respectively, redeemed Comcast's interests in us and TWE, each of which was accounted for as an acquisition of a minority interest. Specifically, in the TWC Redemption, we redeemed Comcast's 17.9% interest in us for 100% of the capital stock of a subsidiary of ours that held both cable systems serving approximately 589,000 subscribers, with an approximate fair value of $2.470 billion, and approximately $1.857 billion in cash. In addition, in the TWE Redemption, TWE redeemed Comcast's 4.7% residual equity interest in TWE for 100% of the equity interests in a subsidiary of TWE that held both cable systems serving approximately 162,000 subscribers, with an approximate fair value of $630 million, and approximately $147 million in cash. The transfer of cable systems as part of the Redemptions is a sale of cable systems for accounting purposes, and a $113 million pre-tax gain was recognized because of the excess of the estimated fair value of these cable systems over their book value. This gain is not reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations.
 
Exchange
 
Immediately after the Adelphia Acquisition on July 31, 2006, we and Comcast exchanged certain cable systems, with an estimated fair value on each side of approximately $8.7 billion to enhance our company's and Comcast's respective geographic clusters of subscribers. We paid Comcast a contractual closing adjustment totaling $67 million related to the Exchange. The Exchange was accounted for by us as a purchase of cable systems from Comcast and a sale of our cable systems to Comcast.
 
For additional information regarding the Transactions, see "BusinessThe Transactions."
 
ATC Contribution
 
On July 28, 2006, ATC, a subsidiary of Time Warner, contributed its 1% equity interest and $2.4 billion preferred equity interest in TWE to TW NY Holding, a newly created subsidiary of ours that is the parent of TW NY, in exchange for a 12.4% non-voting common equity interest in TW NY Holding having an equivalent fair value.
Table of Contents
Financing Arrangements
 
We incurred incremental debt and redeemable preferred equity of approximately $11.1 billion associated with the cash used in executing the Transactions. In connection with the dissolution of TKCCP, in October 2006, we received approximately $631 million of cash in repayment of outstanding loans we had made to TKCCP (which have been assumed by Comcast). The cash that was received was used to pay down our existing credit facilities. The following table summarizes the adjustments recorded to arrive at our pro forma long-term debt and redeemable preferred equity:
 
 
For additional information, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionFinancial Condition and LiquidityBank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs."
 
 
The pro forma adjustments to the statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 relating to the Transactions are as follows:
 
(a) The adjustments to historical depreciation and amortization expense reflect the impact of using the fair values and useful lives of the underlying assets based on a preliminary valuation analysis performed by management. The discounted cash flow approach was based upon management's estimated future cash flows from the acquired assets and utilized a discount rate consistent with the inherent risk of each of the acquired assets.
 
(b) The increase in interest expense reflects incremental borrowings to finance our portion of the Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions, net of the impact of the ATC Contribution. The following tables illustrate the allocation of borrowings to various financing arrangements and the computation of incremental interest expense.
 
Adelphia Acquisition
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Redemptions
 
 
 
 
(c) The net increase in minority interest expense reflects an adjustment to record ATC's direct non-voting common ownership interest in TW NY Holding of approximately 12.4%, the elimination of ATC's historical minority interest in TWE and the elimination of Comcast's residual equity interest in TWE.
 
 
(d) The adjustment to the income tax provision is required to adjust the historical income taxes on both the "Subtotal of Net Acquired Systems" and the "Pro Forma AdjustmentsThe Transactions" at our marginal tax rate of 40.2% and, considering the impact of the non-deductible interest expense related to the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units.
 
 
The pro forma adjustments to the statement of operations relating to the Transactions are as follows:
 
(e) The adjustments to historical depreciation and amortization expense reflect the impact of using the fair values and useful lives of the underlying assets based on a preliminary valuation analysis performed by management. The discounted cash flow approach was based upon management's estimated future cash flows from the acquired assets and utilized a discount rate consistent with the inherent risk of each of the acquired assets.
 
(f) The increase in interest expense reflects incremental borrowings to finance our portion of the Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions, net of the impact of the ATC Contribution. The following tables illustrate the allocation of borrowings to various financing arrangements and the computation of incremental interest expense:
 
Adelphia Acquisition
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Redemptions
 
 
 
 
(g) The net increase in minority interest expense reflects an adjustment to record ATC's direct common ownership interest in TW NY Holding of approximately 12.4%, the elimination of ATC's historical minority interest in TWE and the elimination of Comcast's residual equity interest in TWE.
 
 
(h) The adjustment to the income tax provision is required to adjust the historical income taxes on both the "Subtotal of Net Acquired Systems" and the "Pro Forma AdjustmentsThe Transactions" at our marginal tax rate of 40.2%, and considering the impact of the non-deductible interest expense related to the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units.
 
Note 4:  TKCCP Dissolution
 
On January 1, 2007, in connection with its pending dissolution, TKCCP distributed its assets to us and Comcast. Comcast received the Houston Pool and we received the Kansas City Pool and we began consolidating the Kansas City Pool on that date. All debt of TKCCP (inclusive of debt provided by us and Comcast) was allocated to the Houston Pool and became the responsibility of Comcast. We will account for the dissolution of TKCCP as a sale of our 50% interest in the Houston Pool in exchange for acquiring an additional 50% interest in the Kansas City Pool. We will record a gain based on the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of our 50% investment in the Houston Pool surrendered in connection with the dissolution of TKCCP. The after-tax gain of $92 million, which is based upon a preliminary estimate of the fair value of our 50% investment in the Houston Pool and is subject to change, is not reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations.
 
(i) Prior to the distribution of its assets, we accounted for our investment in TKCCP under the equity method of accounting. The adjustment to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet reflects the reversal of our historical investment in TKCCP and the consolidation of the assets and liabilities of the Kansas City Pool, reflecting the incremental 50% interest in these systems as a step acquisition. The purchase price allocation with respect to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the Kansas City Pool is preliminary. The adjustments to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations reflect the reversal of historical equity income and the consolidation of the operations of the Kansas City Pool.
 
(j) As part of the dissolution of TKCCP, in October 2006, we received $631 million in cash ($494 million in repayment of outstanding loans we had made to TKCCP, which had been allocated to Comcast, and $137 million for accrued interest thereon). The cash received is assumed to be used to pay down our existing credit facilities and, therefore, we have included a $631 million reduction to the debt balance on the unaudited
Table of Contents
pro forma condensed combined balance sheet. The adjustments to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations reflect the elimination of historical interest expense due to the assumed pay down of debt.
 
(k) In addition to the consolidation of historical other current liabilities totaling $37 million, we recorded a $61 million deferred tax liability associated with the gain on the dissolution of TKCCP. This gain is not reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations.
 
(l) The adjustment to the income tax provision is required to adjust the historical income taxes on the dissolution of TKCCP at our marginal tax rate of 40.2%.
 
Note 5:  Items Not Acquired
 
The following tables represent the unaudited historical operating results of the Adelphia systems up to the closing of the Transactions that were (i) received by us in the Adelphia Acquisition and then transferred to Comcast in the Exchange, (ii) acquired by Comcast in the Adelphia Acquisition and not transferred to us in the Exchange or (iii) retained by Adelphia after the Transactions. The "Other Adjustments" columns include certain items and allocated costs that were included in the Comcast Historical Systems financial information and the Adelphia Acquired Systems that were not acquired by us. Specifically, the following items relate to the Comcast Historical Systems and the Adelphia Acquired Systems that were not transferred to us and, therefore, are included as part of the "Other Adjustments" columns:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
The following table represents the unaudited historical operating results of the Comcast Historical Systems for the seven months ended July 31, 2006, which have been separated into the six months ended June 30, 2006 and the one month period ended July 31, 2006.
 
 
 
You should read the following discussion in conjunction with "Selected Historical Consolidated Financial and Subscriber Data," "Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Information" and our historical financial statements and related notes, each of which is included elsewhere in this Current Report on and ACC's consolidated financial statements and related notes and Comcast's special purpose combined carve-out financial statements of the former Comcast Los Angeles, Dallas and Cleveland cable system operations and related notes, each of which is included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Some of the statements in the following discussion are forward-looking statements. For more information, please see "BusinessCaution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements." The following discussion and analysis of our results of operations includes periods prior to the TWE Restructuring and the consummation of the Transactions. Accordingly, our historical results of operations are not indicative of what our future results of operations will be.
Form 8-K,
Form 8-K.
 
Overview
 
We are the second-largest cable operator in the United States and an industry leader in developing and launching innovative video, data and voice services. We deliver our services to customers over technologically advanced, well-clustered cable systems that, as of September 30, 2006, passed approximately 26 million U.S. homes. Approximately 85% of these homes were located in one of five principal geographic areas: New York state, the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California and Texas. We are currently the largest cable system operator in a number of large cities, including New York City and Los Angeles. As of September 30, 2006, we had over 14.6 million customer relationships through which we provided one or more of our services.
 
Time Warner currently holds an 84.0% economic interest in us (representing a 90.6% voting interest). ACC currently holds a 16.0% economic interest in us through ownership of 17.3% of our outstanding Class A common stock (representing a 9.4% voting interest). The financial results of our operations are consolidated by Time Warner.
Table of Contents
We principally offer three productsvideo, high-speed data and voice, which have been primarily targeted to our residential customers. Video is our largest product in terms of revenues generated. We expect to continue to increase our video revenues through our offerings of advanced digital video services such as VOD, SVOD, HDTV and set-top boxes equipped with digital video recorders, as well as through price increases and subscriber growth. Our digital video subscribers provide a broad base of potential customers for additional advanced services. Providing basic video services is an established and highly penetrated business, and, as a result, we continue to expect slower incremental growth in the number of our basic video subscribers compared to the growth in our advanced service offerings. Video programming costs represent a major component of our expenses and are expected to continue to increase, reflecting contractual rate increases, subscriber growth and the expansion of service offerings, and we expect that our video product margins will decline over the next few years as programming cost increases outpace growth in video revenues.
 
High-speed data service has been one of our fastest-growing products over the past several years and is a key driver of our results. At September 30, 2006, we had approximately 6.4 million residential high-speed data subscribers (including approximately 357,000 managed subscribers in the Kansas City Pool). We expect continued strong growth in residential high-speed data subscribers and revenues for the foreseeable future; however, the rate of growth of both subscribers and revenues is expected to slow over time as high-speed data services become increasingly well-penetrated. In addition, as narrowband Internet users continue to migrate to broadband connections, we anticipate that an increasing percentage of our new high-speed data customers will elect to purchase our entry-level high-speed data service, which is generally less expensive than our flagship service level. As a result, over time, our average high-speed data revenue per subscriber may reflect this shift in mix. We also offer commercial high-speed data services and had approximately 234,000 commercial high-speed data subscribers (including approximately 16,000 managed subscribers in the Kansas City Pool) at September 30, 2006.
 
Voice is our newest product, and approximately 1.6 million subscribers (including approximately 125,000 managed subscribers in the Kansas City Pool) received the service as of September 30, 2006. For a monthly fixed fee, voice customers typically receive the following services: unlimited local, in-state and U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico long-distance calling, as well as call waiting, caller ID and E911 services. We also are currently deploying a lower-priced unlimited in-state-only calling plan to serve those of our customers that do not use long-distance services extensively and, in the future, intend to offer additional plans with a variety of local and long-distance options. Our voice services product enables us to offer our customers a convenient package, or "bundle," of video, high-speed data and voice services, and to compete effectively against similar bundled products available from our competitors. We expect strong increases in voice subscribers and revenues and during 2007, we intend to introduce a commercial voice service to small- to medium-sized businesses in most of our legacy systems.
 
In November 2005, we and several other cable companies, together with Sprint, announced the formation of a joint venture to develop integrated video entertainment, wireline and wireless data and communications products and services. In 2006, we began offering a bundle that includes Sprint wireless voice service in limited operating areas and will continue to roll out this product during 2007.
 
Some of our principal competitors, in particular, direct broadcast satellite operators and incumbent local telephone companies, either offer or are making significant capital investments that will allow them to offer services that provide features and functions comparable to the video, data and/or voice services that we offer and they are aggressively seeking to offer them in bundles similar to ours. We expect that the availability of these service offerings will intensify competition.
 
In addition to the subscription services described above, we also earn revenues by selling advertising time to national, regional and local businesses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, approximately one-half of our Advertising revenues were derived from sales to the automotive and media and entertainment industries, with no other individual industry providing a significant portion of our Advertising revenues.
 
As of July 31, 2006, the date the Transactions closed, the overall penetration rates for basic video, digital video and high-speed data services were lower in the Acquired Systems than in our legacy systems. Furthermore, certain advanced services were not available in some of the Acquired Systems, and telephony service was not available in any of the Acquired Systems. To increase the penetration of these services in the Acquired Systems, we are in the midst of a significant integration effort that includes upgrading the capacity and technical performance of
IP-based
Table of Contents
these systems to levels that will allow the delivery of these advanced services and features. We believe that by upgrading the plant, there is a significant opportunity to increase penetration rates of our service offerings in the Acquired Systems.
 
Restatement of Prior Financial Information
 
As previously disclosed by our parent company, Time Warner, the SEC had been conducting an investigation into certain accounting and disclosure practices of Time Warner. On March 21, 2005, Time Warner announced that the SEC had approved Time Warner's proposed settlement, which resolved the SEC's investigation of Time Warner. Under the terms of the settlement with the SEC, Time Warner agreed, without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, to be enjoined from future violations of certain provisions of the securities laws and to comply with the order issued by the SEC to AOL, a subsidiary of Time Warner, in May 2000. Time Warner also agreed to appoint an independent examiner, who was to either be or hire a certified public accountant. The independent examiner was to review whether Time Warner's historical accounting for certain transactions (as well as any subsequent amendments) with 17 counterparties identified by the SEC staff, principally involving online advertising revenues and including three cable programming affiliation agreements with related online advertising elements, was appropriate, and provide a report to Time Warner's Audit and Finance Committee of its conclusions, originally within 180 days of being engaged. The transactions that were to be reviewed were entered into (or amended) between June 1, 2000 and December 31, 2001, including subsequent amendments thereto, and involved online advertising and related transactions for which the majority of the revenue was recognized by Time Warner before January 1, 2002.
cease-and-desist
 
During the third quarter of 2006, the independent examiner completed his review, in which he concluded that certain of the transactions under review with 15 counterparties, including three cable programming affiliation agreements with advertising elements, had been accounted for improperly because the historical accounting did not reflect the substance of the arrangements. Under the terms of its SEC settlement, Time Warner was required to restate any transactions that the independent examiner determined were accounted for improperly. Accordingly, Time Warner restated its consolidated financial results for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006. The impact of the adjustments is reflected in amendments to Time Warner's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2005 and Time Warner's Quarterly Reports on for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, each of which was filed with the SEC on September 13, 2006. In addition, we restated our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006. The financial statements presented herein reflect the impact of the adjustments made in our financial results.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
 
The three transactions impacting us are ones in which we entered into cable programming affiliation agreements at the same time we committed to deliver (and did subsequently deliver) network and online advertising services to those same counterparties. Total advertising revenues recognized by us under these transactions was approximately $274 million (approximately $134 million in 2001 and approximately $140 million in 2002). Included in the $274 million was $56 million related to operations that have been subsequently classified as discontinued operations. In addition to reversing the recognition of revenue, based on the independent examiner's conclusions, we have recorded corresponding reductions in the cable programming costs over the life of the related cable programming affiliation agreements (which range from 10 to 12 years) that were acquired contemporaneously with the execution of the advertising agreements. This has the effect of increasing earnings beginning in 2003 and continuing through future periods.
 
The net effect of restating these transactions is that our net income was reduced by approximately $60 million in 2001 and $61 million in 2002 and was increased by approximately $12 million in each of 2003, 2004 and 2005, and by approximately $6 million for the first six months of 2006 (the impact for the year ended December 31, 2006 was an increase to our net income of approximately $12 million). While the restatement resulted in changes in the classification of cash flows within cash provided by operating activities, it has not impacted total cash flows during the periods.
Table of Contents
Business Transactions and Developments
 
  
Adelphia Acquisition
 
On July 31, 2006, the Adelphia Acquisition closed. At the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY paid approximately $8.9 billion in cash, after giving effect to certain purchase price adjustments, and shares representing 17.3% of our Class A common stock (16% of our outstanding common stock) for the portion of the Adelphia assets we acquired. In addition, on July 28, 2006, in the ATC Contribution, ATC, a subsidiary of Time Warner, contributed its 1% common equity interest and $2.4 billion preferred equity interest in TWE to TW NY Holding, a newly created subsidiary of ours and the parent of TW NY, in exchange for an approximately 12.4% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding.
 
At the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, we entered into the Adelphia Registration Rights and Sale Agreement with Adelphia, which governed the disposition of the shares of our Class A common stock received by Adelphia in the TWC Adelphia Acquisition. Upon the effectiveness of Adelphia's plan of reorganization, the parties' obligations under the Adelphia Registration Rights and Sale Agreement terminated.
 
  The Redemptions
 
On July 31, 2006, immediately before the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, each of the TWC Redemption and the TWE Redemption was consummated. Specifically, in the TWC Redemption, Comcast's 17.9% interest in us was redeemed in exchange for 100% of the capital stock of a subsidiary of ours holding both cable systems serving approximately 589,000 subscribers and approximately $1.9 billion in cash. In addition, in the TWE Redemption, Comcast's 4.7% interest in TWE was redeemed in exchange for 100% of the equity interests in a subsidiary of TWE holding both cable systems serving approximately 162,000 subscribers and approximately $147 million in cash. The TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Tax Code. For accounting purposes, the Redemptions were treated as an acquisition of Comcast's minority interests in us and TWE and a sale of the cable systems that were transferred to Comcast. The purchase of the minority interests resulted in a reduction of goodwill of $730 million related to the excess of the carrying value of the Comcast minority interests over the total fair value of the Redemptions. In addition, the sale of the cable systems resulted in an after-tax gain of $930 million, included in discontinued operations, which is comprised of a $113 million pretax gain (calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the systems acquired by Comcast in the Redemptions totaling $2.987 billion and the estimated fair value of $3.100 billion) and the net reversal of deferred tax liabilities of approximately $817 million.
 
  The Exchange
 
Following the Redemptions and the Adelphia Acquisition, on July 31, 2006, we, Comcast and certain of our subsidiaries consummated the Exchange, under which we exchanged certain cable systems to enhance our respective geographic clusters of subscribers and TW NY paid Comcast approximately $67 million for certain adjustments related to the Exchange. We did not record a gain or loss on systems TW NY acquired from Adelphia and transferred to Comcast in the Exchange because such systems were recorded at fair value in the Adelphia Acquisition. We did, however, record a pretax gain of $32 million ($19 million net of tax) on the Exchange related to the disposition of Urban Cable Works of Philadelphia, L.P. ("Urban Cable"). This gain is included as a component of discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2006.
 
The results of the systems acquired in connection with the Transactions have been included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations since the closing of the Transactions on July 31, 2006. The systems transferred to Comcast in connection with the Redemptions and the Exchange (the "Transferred Systems"), including the gains discussed above, have been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for all periods presented. See Notes 1 and 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, each of which is included elsewhere in this Current Report on for additional information regarding the discontinued operations.
Form 8-K,
Table of Contents
As a result of the closing of the Transactions, we gained systems with approximately 3.2 million basic subscribers. As of July 31, 2006, Time Warner owns 84% of our outstanding common stock (including 82.7% of our outstanding Class A common stock and all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock), as well as an approximately 12.4% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding. As of July 31, 2006, the remaining 17.3% of our Class A common stock (16% of our outstanding common stock) is held by Adelphia, and Comcast no longer has an interest in us or TWE.
 
See "BusinessThe Transactions" for additional information on the Transactions.
 
  Tax Benefits from the Transactions
 
The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a taxable acquisition of assets that would result in a tax basis in the acquired assets equal to the purchase price we paid. The depreciation and amortization deductions resulting from this in the tax basis of the assets would reduce future net cash tax payments and thereby increase our future cash flows. We believe that most cable operators have a tax basis that is below the fair market value of their cable systems and, accordingly, we have viewed a portion of our tax basis in the acquired assets as incremental value above the amount of basis more generally associated with cable systems. The tax benefit of such incremental step-up would reduce net cash tax payments by more than $300 million per year for 15 years, assuming the following: (i) incremental step-up relating to 85% of a $14.4 billion purchase price (which assumes that 15% of the fair market value of cable systems represents a typical amount of basis), (ii) straight-line amortization deductions over 15 years, (iii) sufficient taxable income to utilize the amortization deductions, and (iv) a 40% effective tax rate. The IRS or state or local tax authorities might challenge the anticipated tax characterizations or related valuations, and any successful challenge could materially adversely affect our tax profile (including our ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from the Transactions), significantly increase our future cash tax payments and significantly reduce our future earnings and cash flow.
step-up
 
Also, the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Tax Code. If the IRS were successful in challenging the tax-free characterization of the TWC Redemption, an additional cash liability on account of taxes of up to an estimated $900 million could become payable by us.
 
For a discussion of these and other tax issues, see the tenth risk factor under "Risk FactorsAdditional Risks of Our Operations."
 
  FCC Order Approving the Transactions
 
In its order approving the Adelphia Acquisition, the FCC imposed conditions on us related to RSNs, as defined in the order, and the resolution of disputes pursuant to the FCC's leased access regulations. In particular, the order provides that:
 
 
The application and scope of these conditions, which will expire in July 2012, have not yet been tested. We retain the right to obtain FCC and judicial review of any arbitration awards made pursuant to these conditions.
Table of Contents
  
Joint Venture Dissolution
 
TKCCP is a joint venture between TWE-A/N (a partnership of TWE and the Advance/Newhouse Partnership) and Comcast serving approximately 1.6 million basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006. In accordance with the terms of the TKCCP partnership agreement, on July 3, 2006, Comcast notified us of its election to trigger the dissolution of the partnership and its decision to allocate all of TKCCP's debt, which totaled approximately $2 billion, to the Houston Pool. On August 1, 2006, we notified Comcast of our election to receive the Kansas City Pool. On October 2, 2006, we received approximately $630 million from Comcast due to the repayment of debt owed by TKCCP to TWE-A/N that had been allocated to the Houston Pool. Since July 1, 2006, we have been entitled to 100% of the economic interest in the Kansas City Pool (and recognized such interest pursuant to the equity method of accounting), and are no longer entitled to any economic benefits of ownership from the Houston Pool.
50-50
 
On January 1, 2007, TKCCP distributed its assets to its partners. We received the Kansas City Pool, which served approximately 782,000 basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006, and Comcast received the Houston Pool, which served approximately 791,000 basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006. We began consolidating the results of the Kansas City Pool on January 1, 2007. As a result of the asset distribution, TKCCP no longer has any assets, and we expect that it will be formally dissolved in 2007.
 
As a result of the TKCCP asset distribution, we are presenting our managed subscriber numbers including only the managed subscribers in the Kansas City Pool. Accordingly, the subscribers from the Houston Pool are not included in our managed subscriber numbers for any period presented.
 
  
TWE Notes Indenture
 
On October 18, 2006, we, together with TWE, TW NY Holding, certain other subsidiaries of Time Warner and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, entered into the Tenth Supplemental Indenture to the indenture (the "TWE Indenture") governing $3.2 billion of notes and debentures issued by TWE (the "TWE Notes"). Pursuant to the Tenth Supplemental Indenture to the TWE Indenture, TW NY Holding fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the payment of principal and interest on the TWE Notes. Also on October 18, 2006, TW NY contributed all of its general partnership interests in TWE to TWE GP Holdings LLC, its wholly owned subsidiary. In addition, on November 2, 2006, a consent solicitation to amend the TWE Indenture was completed. See "Financial Condition and LiquidityTWE Notes and Debentures" for further details.
 
  
Income Tax Changes
 
During 2005, our tax provision was impacted favorably by state tax law changes in Ohio, an ownership restructuring in Texas and certain other methodology changes. The state law changes in Ohio relate to the changes in the method of taxation as the income tax is being phased-out and replaced with a gross receipts tax. These tax law changes resulted in a reduction in certain deferred tax liabilities related to Ohio. Accordingly, we have recognized these reductions as noncash tax benefits totaling approximately $205 million in 2005. In addition, an ownership restructuring of our partnership interests in Texas and certain methodology changes resulted in a reduction of deferred state tax liabilities. We have also recognized this reduction as a noncash tax benefit of approximately $174 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
 
  
Restructuring of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P.
 
TWE is a Delaware limited partnership formed in 1992 that was owned by Time Warner and other third parties that, prior to the TWE Restructuring, which is described below, was engaged in three businesscable systems, filmed entertainment and programming.
 
As part of the TWE Restructuring in March 2003, (i) substantially all the assets of TWI Cable, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Time Warner) and TWE were acquired by us, (ii) TWE's non-cable businesses, including Warner Bros., Home Box Office, and TWE's interests in The WB Television Network (which has subsequently ceased operations), Comedy Central (which was subsequently sold) and the Courtroom Television Network (collectively, the "Non-cable Businesses") were distributed to Time Warner, and (iii) Comcast restructured its
Table of Contents
holdings in TWE, the result of which was a decreased interest in TWE and an increased ownership interest in us. As a result of the TWE Restructuring, TWE became a consolidated subsidiary of ours, and we indirectly held 94.3% of TWE's residual equity interest, with the remaining interest held indirectly by Time Warner and Comcast. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director IndependenceTWE" for more information.
 
Prior to the Redemptions but subsequent to the TWE Restructuring, Comcast's 21% economic interest in us was held through a 17.9% direct common stock ownership interest in us and a limited partnership interest in TWE (representing a 4.7% residual equity interest). Time Warner's 79% economic interest in us was held through an 82.1% direct common stock ownership interest in us (representing an 89.3% voting interest) and a limited partnership interest in TWE (representing a 1% residual equity interest). Time Warner also held a $2.4 billion mandatorily redeemable preferred equity interest in TWE through ATC. In connection with the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner effectively increased its economic ownership interest in TWE from approximately 73% to approximately 79%. The acquisition by Time Warner of this additional 6% interest in TWE, as well as the reorganization of Comcast's interest in TWE resulting in a 17.9% interest in us, were accounted for at fair value as step acquisitions. The total purchase consideration for the additional 6% interest in TWE was approximately $4.6 billion ($3.2 billion of the total purchase consideration was related to the discontinued operations of the Non-cable Businesses). These step acquisitions resulted in a fair value adjustment of $2.4 billion which is reflected as an increase in cable franchise intangibles and franchise-related customer relationships, with a corresponding increase in contributed capital. Time Warner's purchase accounting adjustments for the TWE Restructuring were pushed down to our financial statements. See "BusinessThe TransactionsTWC/Comcast AgreementsThe TWE Redemption Agreement" and "The TWC Redemption Agreement."
 
In the TWE Redemption, TWE redeemed all of the residual equity interest of TWE held by Comcast in exchange for 100% of the limited liability company interests of one of its subsidiaries. As a result of the TWE Redemption, Comcast no longer has an interest in TWE. See "BusinessThe TransactionsTWC/Comcast AgreementsThe TWE Redemption Agreement."
 
The ATC Contribution was consummated on July 28, 2006. In the ATC Contribution, ATC contributed its 1% residual equity interest and $2.4 billion preferred equity interest in TWE that it received in the TWE Restructuring to TW NY Holding, the direct parent of TW NY and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of ours, for a 12.4% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding.
 
As a result of the TWE Redemption and the ATC Contribution, two of our subsidiaries are the sole general and limited partners of TWE.
 
Financial Statement Presentation
 
  
Revenues
 
Our revenues consist of Subscription and Advertising revenues. Subscription revenues consist of revenues from video, high-speed data and voice services.
 
Video revenues include monthly fees for basic, standard and digital services, together with related equipment rental charges, charges for set-top boxes and charges for premium channels and SVOD services. Video revenues also include installation, and VOD charges and franchise fees relating to video charges collected on behalf of local franchising authorities. Several ancillary items are also included within video revenues, such as commissions related to the sale of merchandise by home shopping services and rental income earned on the leasing of antenna attachments on our transmission towers. In each period presented, these ancillary items constitute less than 2% of video revenues.
Pay-Per-View
 
High-speed data revenues include monthly subscriber fees from both residential and commercial subscribers, which account for nearly 99% of such revenues, along with related equipment rental charges, home networking fees and installation charges, which account for approximately 1% of such revenues. High-speed data revenues also include fees received from TKCCP (our unconsolidated joint venture at September 30, 2006, which is in the process of being dissolved), third parties and certain cable systems owned by a subsidiary of TWE-A/N and managed by
A/N.
Table of Contents
Voice revenues include monthly subscriber fees from voice subscribers, including Digital Phone subscribers and circuit-switched subscribers acquired from Comcast in the Exchange, which account for over 99% of such revenues, along with related installation charges, which account for less than 1% of such revenues.
 
Advertising revenues include the fees charged to local, regional and national advertising customers for advertising placed on our video and high-speed data services. Nearly all Advertising revenues are attributable to our video service.
 
  
Costs and Expenses
 
Costs of revenues include: video programming costs (including fees paid to the programming vendors net of certain amounts received from the vendors); high-speed data connectivity costs; voice services network costs; other service-related expenses, including non-administrative labor costs directly associated with the delivery of products and services to subscribers; maintenance of our delivery systems; franchise fees; and other related expenses. Our programming agreements are generally multi-year agreements that provide for us to make payments to the programming vendors at agreed upon rates based on the number of subscribers to which we provide the service.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses include amounts not directly associated with the delivery of products and services to subscribers or the maintenance of our delivery systems, such as administrative labor costs, marketing expenses, billing charges, repair and maintenance costs, management fees paid to Time Warner and other administrative overhead costs, net of management fees received from TKCCP, our unconsolidated joint venture at September 30, 2006, which is in the process of being dissolved. Effective August 1, 2006, as a result of the pending dissolution of TKCCP, we no longer receive management fees from TKCCP.
 
  
Use of OIBDA and Free Cash Flow
 
OIBDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. We define OIBDA as Operating Income (Loss) before depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets. Management utilizes OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of our business and as a significant component of our annual incentive compensation programs because OIBDA eliminates the uneven effect across our business of considerable amounts of depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations. OIBDA is also a measure used by our parent, Time Warner, to evaluate our performance and is an important metric in the Time Warner reportable segment disclosures. Management also uses OIBDA in evaluating our ability to provide cash flows to service debt and fund capital expenditures because OIBDA removes the impact of depreciation and amortization, which do not contribute to our ability to provide cash flows to service debt and fund capital expenditures. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in our business. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates the investments in such tangible and intangible assets through other financial measures, such as capital expenditure budget variances, investment spending levels and return on capital analysis. Additionally, OIBDA should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, Operating Income (Loss), net income (loss) and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. We define Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities (as defined under GAAP) less cash provided by (used by) discontinued operations, capital expenditures, partnership distributions and principal payments on capital leases. Management uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate our business. We believe this measure is an important indicator of our liquidity, including our ability to reduce net debt and make strategic investments, because it reflects our operating cash flow after considering the significant capital expenditures required to operate our business. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such expenditures through other financial measures, such as capital expenditure budget variances and return on investment analyses. Free Cash Flow should not be considered as an alternative to net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of liquidity, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Table of Contents
Both OIBDA and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, our Operating Income, net income and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of OIBDA to both Operating Income and net income is presented under "Results of Operations." A reconciliation of Free Cash Flow to cash provided by operating activities is presented under "Financial Condition and Liquidity."
 
Anticipated Future Trends
 
  
Video Services
 
Management expects that video revenues will continue to grow in the future, reflecting price increases and increased revenue from new digitally-based services, such as VOD, SVOD, HDTV and set-top boxes equipped with digital video recorders, which we have introduced over the past few years. Digital video subscribers are expected to continue to grow, but at relatively slower rates as penetration increases. Providing basic video services is an established and highly penetrated business, and, as a result, we expect slower incremental growth in the number of our basic video subscribers compared to the growth of our advanced service offerings. Video programming costs are expected to remain one of our largest single expense items for the foreseeable future. Video programming costs have risen in recent years due to several factors, including industry-wide programming cost increases (especially for sports programming), increased demand for premium services, the addition of quality programming for more extensive programming packages and service offerings and the launch of VOD services. For these reasons, programming costs will continue to rise, and we expect that our video product margins will decline over the next few years as programming cost increases outpace growth in video revenues.
 
  
High-speed Data Services
 
High-speed data services continue to be a source of high revenue growth. In total, consolidated high-speed data revenues grew from $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2005 and from $1.5 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 to $1.9 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. Strong growth rates for subscription revenues associated with the high-speed data services product are expected to continue for the remainder of 2006. High-speed data costs decreased from $126 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $102 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as connectivity costs decreased on a per subscriber basis due to industry-wide cost reductions. High-speed data costs increased from $75 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 to $115 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 as a result of the Transactions, subscriber growth and an increase in per subscriber connectivity costs. We anticipate that per subscriber costs will continue to rise as connectivity costs and customer usage continue to increase. In addition, as narrowband Internet users continue to migrate to broadband connections, we anticipate that an increasing percentage of our new high-speed data customers will elect to purchase our entry-level of high-speed data service, which is generally less expensive than our flagship service level. As a result, over time, our average high-speed data revenue per subscriber may reflect this shift in mix.
 
  
Voice Services
 
Our voice services product was rolled out across our footprint during 2004. Consolidated voice revenues grew from $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 to $272 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and from $166 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 to $493 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. Strong growth rates for subscription revenues associated with voice services are expected to continue for the near future.
 
  
Merger-related and Restructuring Costs
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, we expensed approximately $29 million of non-capitalizable merger-related costs associated with the Redemptions, the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange. Such costs are expected to continue for the near future. In addition, our results for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 include approximately $14 million of restructuring costs, primarily due to a reduction in headcount associated with efforts to reorganize our operations in a more efficient manner. These charges are part of our broader plans to
Table of Contents
simplify our organizational structure and enhance our customer focus. We are in the process of executing these initiatives and expect to incur additional costs as these plans are implemented throughout 2007.
 
Recent Accounting Standards
 
  
Stock-based Compensation
 
Historically, our employees have participated in various Time Warner equity plans. We have established the Time Warner Cable Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan"). We expect that our employees will participate in the 2006 Plan starting in 2007 and thereafter will not continue to participate in Time Warner's equity plan. Our employees who have outstanding equity awards under the Time Warner equity plans will retain any rights under those Time Warner equity awards pursuant to their terms regardless of their participation in the 2006 Plan. We have adopted the provisions of FAS 123R as of January 1, 2006. The provisions of FAS 123R require a company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost is recognized in the statement of operations over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. FAS 123R also amends FASB Statement No. 95, , to require that excess tax benefits, as defined, realized from the exercise of stock options be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid in cash flow from operations.
Statement of Cash Flows
 
Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, we had followed the provisions of FAS 123, which allowed us to follow the intrinsic value method set forth in Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and disclose the pro forma effects on net income (loss) had the fair value of the equity awards been expensed. In connection with adopting FAS 123R, we elected to adopt the modified retrospective application method provided by FAS 123R and, accordingly, financial statement amounts for all prior periods presented herein reflect results as if the fair value method of expensing had been applied from the original effective date of FAS 123 (see Note 1 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, each of which is included elsewhere in this Current Report on for a discussion on the impact of the adoption of FAS 123R).
Form 8-K,
 
Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, for disclosure purposes, we recognized stock-based compensation expense for awards with graded vesting by treating each vesting tranche as a separate award and recognizing compensation expense ratably for each tranche. For equity awards granted subsequent to the adoption of FAS 123R, we treat such awards as a single award and recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee service period. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in costs of revenues or selling, general and administrative expense depending on the employee's job function.
 
Additionally, when recording compensation cost for equity awards, FAS 123R requires companies to estimate the number of equity awards granted that are expected to be forfeited. Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, for disclosure purposes, we recognized forfeitures when they occurred, rather than using an estimate at the grant date and subsequently adjusting the estimated forfeitures to reflect actual forfeitures. Accordingly, a pretax cumulative effect adjustment totaling $4 million ($2 million, net of tax) was recorded for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 to adjust for awards granted prior to January 1, 2006 that are not expected to vest. The total impact of the adoption of FAS 123R on Operating Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $24 million, $44 million, $53 million, $66 million and $93 million, respectively. Total equity-based compensation expense (which includes expense recognized related to Time Warner stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units) recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $27 million, $44 million, $53 million, $70 million and $97 million, respectively.
 
  
Accounting For Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits
 
In June 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus on EITF Issue ("EITF EITF provides that an employee's right to a compensated absence under a sabbatical leave or similar benefit arrangement in which the employee is not required to perform any duties during the absence is an accumulating benefit. Therefore, such arrangements should be accounted for as a liability with the cost recognized over the service period during which
No. 06-02,
Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits
06-02").
06-02
Table of Contents
the employee earns the benefit. The provisions of EITF became effective for us as of January 1, 2007 and will impact the accounting for certain of our employment arrangements. The cumulative impact of this guidance, which will be applied retrospectively to all prior periods, is expected to result in a reduction to retained earnings on January 1, 2007 of approximately $62 million ($37 million, net of tax). The retrospective impact on Operating Income for calendar years 2006, 2005 and 2004 is expected to be approximately $6 million, $6 million and $8 million, respectively.
06-02
 
  
Income Statement Classification of Taxes Collected from Customers
 
In June 2006, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF Issue ("EITF EITF provides that the presentation of taxes assessed by a governmental authority that is directly imposed on a revenue-producing transaction between a seller and a customer on either a gross basis (included in revenues and costs) or on a net basis (excluded from revenues) is an accounting policy decision that should be disclosed. The provisions of EITF will be effective for us as of January 1, 2007. is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
No. 06-03,
How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)
06-03").
06-03
06-03
EITF 06-03
 
  
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
 
In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, ("FIN 48"), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax positions. FIN 48 requires that we recognize in our consolidated financial statements the impact of a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 will be effective for us as of the beginning of our 2007 fiscal year. The cumulative impact of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
 
  
Consideration Given By a Service Provider to Manufacturers or Resellers of Equipment
 
In September 2006, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF Issue ("EITF EITF provides that consideration provided to the manufacturers or resellers of specialized equipment should be accounted for as a reduction of revenue if the consideration provided is in the form of cash and the service provider directs that such cash be provided directly to the customer. Otherwise, the consideration should be recorded as an expense. EITF will be effective for us as of January 1, 2008 and is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
No. 06-01,
Accounting for Consideration Given by a Service Provider to Manufacturers or Resellers of Equipment Necessary for an End-Customer to Receive Service from the Service Provider
06-01").
06-01
06-01
 
  
Quantifying Effects of Prior Years Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
 
In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108, ("SAB 108"). SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using both a balance sheet and statement of operations approach and evaluate whether either approach results in a misstated amount that, when all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered, is material. SAB 108 is effective for us in the fourth quarter of 2006 and is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
 
  
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 158, ("FAS 158"). FAS 158 addresses the accounting for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans ("plans"). Specifically, FAS 158 requires companies to recognize an asset for a plan's overfunded status or a liability for a plan's underfunded status and to measure a plan's assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the company's fiscal year, the offset of which is recorded, net of tax, as a component of other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. FAS 158 will be effective for us on December 31, 2006 and is being applied prospectively. On December 31, 2006, we expect to reflect the funded status of our plans by reducing our net pension asset by $217 million to reflect actuarial and
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
Table of Contents
investment losses that have not been recognized pursuant to prior pension accounting rules and recording a corresponding deferred tax asset of approximately $87 million and a net after-tax charge of approximately $130 million in other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity.
 
  
Fair Value Measurements
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157, ("FAS 157"). FAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and expands on required disclosures about fair value measurement. FAS 157 is effective for us on January 1, 2008 and will be applied prospectively. The provisions of FAS 157 are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements
 
Discontinued Operations
 
As previously noted under "Business Transactions and Developments," we have reflected the operations of the Transferred Systems as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to our prior year's financial information to conform to the September 30, 2006 presentation.
 
Results of Operations
 
  
Nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2005
 
Revenues by major category were as follows (in millions):
Revenues.  
 
 
Adelphia and Comcast employed methodologies that differed slightly from those used by us to determine subscriber numbers. As of September 30, 2006, we had converted subscriber numbers for most of the Acquired Systems to our methodology. During the fourth quarter of 2006, we completed the conversion of such data, which resulted in a reduction of approximately 46,000 basic video subscribers in the Acquired Systems. Our subscriber results, which have been recast to reflect this adjustment, are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The increase in video revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 was primarily due to the impact of the Acquired Systems, the continued penetration of advanced digital services and video price increases, as well as an increase in consolidated basic video subscribers in our legacy systems between September 30, 2005 and September 30, 2006. Aggregate revenues associated with our advanced digital video services, including digital tiers, VOD, SVOD and set-top boxes with digital video recorders, increased 32% to $705 million from $535 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Pay-Per-View,
 
High-speed data revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 increased primarily due to the impact of the Acquired Systems and growth in high-speed data subscribers. Consolidated commercial high-speed data revenues increased to $227 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $175 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. Consolidated residential high-speed data penetration, expressed as a percentage of service-ready homes, increased to 25.3% at September 30, 2006 from 24.9% at September 30, 2005. Strong growth rates for high-speed data service revenues are expected to continue for the near future.
 
The increase in voice services revenues for nine months ended September 30, 2006 was primarily due to growth in voice subscribers. Voice services revenues also include approximately $12 million of revenues associated with subscribers acquired from Comcast who received traditional, circuit-switched telephone service. Excluding the circuit-switched telephone services revenues, the growth in voice services revenues does not include any impact from the Acquired Systems because the Acquired Systems did not offer telephony service as of September 30, 2006. Consolidated voice services penetration, expressed as a percentage of service-ready homes, increased to 10.8% at September 30, 2006 from 5.7% at September 30, 2005. Strong growth rates for voice services revenues are expected to continue for the near future.
IP-based
 
Our subscription ARPU increased approximately 13% to $90 for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from approximately $80 for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 as a result of the increased penetration in advanced services and higher video prices, as discussed above.
 
Advertising revenues increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 primarily attributable to the Acquired Systems. This increase reflected an approximate $45 million increase in local advertising and a $13 million increase in national advertising. Excluding the results of the Acquired Systems, Advertising revenues were relatively flat.
 
The major components of costs of revenues were as follows (in millions):
Costs of revenues.  
 
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, costs of revenues increased 27% and, as a percentage of revenues, were 46% for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to 45% for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The increase in costs of revenues is primarily related to the impact of the Acquired Systems, as well as increases in video programming costs, labor costs and telephony service costs. The increase in costs of revenues as a percentage of revenues reflects the items noted above and lower margins for the Acquired Systems.
 
Video programming costs increased 22% for the nine months ended September 30, 2006. This increase was due primarily to the impact of the Acquired Systems, higher sports network programming costs, the increase in
Table of Contents
video subscribers and non-sports-related contractual rate increases. Per subscriber programming costs increased 10%, to $20.30 per month in 2006 from $18.53 per month in 2005. The increase in per subscriber programming costs was primarily due to higher sports network programming costs and non-sports-related contractual rate increases. Programming costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 included an $11 million benefit reflecting an adjustment in the amortization of certain launch support payments. In addition, programming costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 included a $10 million benefit related to the resolution of terms with a programming vendor and a $14 million charge related to the resolution of contractual terms with another program vendor.
 
Labor costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 increased primarily due to the impact of the Acquired Systems, salary increases and higher headcount resulting from the roll-out of advanced services. These increases were partially offset by a $16 million benefit due to changes in estimates related to certain medical benefit accruals.
 
High-speed data service costs consist of the direct costs associated with the delivery of high-speed data services, including network connectivity and certain other costs. High-speed data service costs increased due to the impact of the Acquired Systems, subscriber growth and an increase in per subscriber connectivity costs.
 
Voice services costs consist of the direct costs associated with the delivery of voice services, including network connectivity and certain other costs. Voice costs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 increased due to the growth in voice subscribers.
 
Other costs increased due to revenue driven increases in fees paid to local franchise authorities, as well as increases in other costs associated with the continued roll-out of advanced services, including voice services. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, these increases were partially offset by a $10 million benefit related to third-party maintenance support payment fees, reflecting the resolution of terms with an equipment vendor. In addition, other costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 included a $10 million benefit reflecting a reduction in accrued expenses related to changes in estimates of certain accruals.
 
The major components of selling, general and administrative expenses were as follows (in millions):
Selling, general and administrative expenses.  
 
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 as a result of higher labor and other costs. Labor costs increased primarily due to the impact of the Acquired Systems, increased headcount resulting from the continued roll-out of advanced services and salary increases, partially offset by a $5 million benefit due to changes in estimates related to certain medical benefit accruals. Other costs increased primarily due to the impact of the Acquired Systems and increases in administrative costs associated with the increase in headcount discussed above. In addition, other costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 included an $11 million charge (with an additional $2 million charge included in costs of revenues) reflecting an adjustment to prior period facility rent expense. The nine months ended September 30, 2005 also reflect $8 million in reserves related to legal matters.
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we expensed $29 million and $2 million, respectively, of non-capitalizable merger-related costs associated with the Transactions. These merger-related costs are related primarily to consulting fees concerning integration planning for the Transactions and other costs incurred in connection with notifying new customers of the change in cable providers. Such costs are expected to continue for the near future. In addition, the results for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 include $14 million of restructuring costs. The results for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 included $31 million, of restructuring costs, primarily associated with the early retirement of certain senior
Merger-related and Restructuring Costs.  
Table of Contents
executives and the closing of several local news channels. These restructuring activities are part of our broader plans to simplify our organizational structure and enhance our customer focus. We are in the process of executing these initiatives and expect to incur additional costs as these plans are implemented.
 
  
Reconciliation of Net income and Operating Income to OIBDA
 
The following table reconciles Net income and Operating Income to OIBDA for purposes of the discussions that follow (in millions):
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
OIBDA increased by $496 million, or 20%, to $2.9 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $2.4 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase was attributable to the impact of the Acquired Systems and revenue growth (particularly growth in high margin high-speed data revenues), partially offset by higher costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses, as previously discussed.
OIBDA.  
 
Depreciation expense increased 18% to $1.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $1.1 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. Depreciation expense increased primarily due to the impact of the Acquired Systems and demand-driven increases in recent years of purchases of customer premise equipment, which generally have a significantly shorter useful life compared to the mix of assets previously purchased.
Depreciation Expense.  
 
Amortization expense increased to $93 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $54 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase was as a result of the amortization of intangible assets associated with customer relationships acquired as part of the Transactions.
Amortization Expense.  
 
Operating Income increased to $1.5 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $1.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase was primarily due to the increase in OIBDA, partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization expense, as discussed above.
Operating Income.  
 
Interest expense, net, increased to $411 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $347 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase was due primarily to an increase in debt levels attributable to the Transactions.
Interest Expense, Net.  
Table of Contents
Income from equity investments, net, increased to $79 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $26 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase was primarily due to an increase in the profitability of TKCCP, as well as changes in the economic benefit of TWE's partnership interest in TKCCP due to the pending dissolution of the partnership triggered by Comcast on July 3, 2006. Beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the income from TKCCP reflects 100% of the operations of the Kansas City Pool and does not reflect any of the economic benefits of the Houston Pool. We received the Kansas City Pool on January 1, 2007 in the TKCCP asset distribution and began consolidating its results on that date.
Income from Equity Investments, Net.  
 
Minority interest expense, net, increased to $73 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 from $45 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase primarily reflects a change in our ownership structure and the ownership structure of TWE. At September 30, 2005, ATC, a subsidiary of Time Warner, and Comcast had residual equity ownership interests in TWE of 1% and 4.7%, respectively. On July 28, 2006, ATC contributed its 1% common equity interest (as well as its $2.4 billion preferred equity interest) in TWE to TW NY Holding in exchange for an approximately 12.4% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding. On July 31, 2006, we and TWE redeemed Comcast's ownership interests in us and TWE, respectively.
Minority Interest Expense, Net.  
 
Our income tax provision has been prepared as if we operated as a stand-alone taxpayer for all periods presented. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we recorded income tax provisions of $452 million and $168 million, respectively. The effective tax rate was approximately 40% for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to approximately 18% for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the favorable impact of a state tax law change in Ohio, which resulted in a noncash tax benefit of approximately $215 million in the second quarter of 2005.
Income Tax Provision.  
 
Income before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change was $690 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $749 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This decrease was driven by the increase in the income tax provision resulting from the absence in 2006 of the noncash tax benefit related to the previously discussed state tax law change in Ohio and higher interest expense, partially offset by increased Operating Income and income from equity investments, net.
Income before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change.  
 
Discontinued operations, net of tax, reflect the impact of treating the Transferred Systems as discontinued operations. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we recognized pretax income applicable to these systems of $265 million and $117 million, respectively, ($1.0 billion and $75 million, respectively, net of tax). Included in the results for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 are a pretax gain of approximately $145 million on the Transferred Systems and a tax benefit of approximately $804 million comprised of a tax benefit of $817 million on the Redemptions, partially offset by a provision of $13 million on the Exchange. The tax benefit of $817 million results primarily from the reversal of historical deferred tax liabilities that had existed on systems transferred to Comcast in the TWC Redemption. The TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Tax Code, and as a result, such liabilities were no longer required. However, if the IRS were to succeed in challenging the tax-free characterization of the TWC Redemption, an additional cash tax liability of up to an estimated $900 million could result. See "Business Transactions and DevelopmentsTax Benefits from the Transactions."
Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax.  
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, we recorded a $4 million pretax benefit ($2 million, net of tax) as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle upon the adoption of FAS 123R in the first quarter of 2006 to recognize the effect of estimating the number of Time Warner equity-based awards granted to our employees prior to January 1, 2006 that are not ultimately expected to vest.
Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change, Net of Tax.  
 
Net income was $1.7 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 compared to $824 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. This increase was driven by the increase in income from discontinued operations, net of tax, partially offset by the decrease in income before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change.
Net Income.  
Table of Contents
Full year 2005 compared to full year 2004
 
Revenues by major category were as follows (in millions):
Revenues.  
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
Subscriber results were as follows (in thousands):
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
 
Total video revenues increased by $338 million, or 6%, over 2004, primarily due to continued penetration of advanced digital services and video price increases, as well as an increase in basic video subscribers between December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005. Aggregate revenues associated with our advanced digital services, including digital tiers, VOD, SVOD and digital video recorders, increased 19% from $612 million to $727 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively.
Pay-Per-View,
 
High-speed data revenues increased in 2005 primarily due to growth in high-speed data subscribers. Consolidated residential high-speed data penetration, expressed as a percentage of service-ready homes, increased from 21.8% at December 31, 2004 to 26.1% at December 31, 2005. Commercial high-speed data revenues increased from $181 million in 2004 to $241 million in 2005.
 
The increase in voice services revenues in 2005 was primarily due to the full-scale launch of voice services across our footprint. Our voice services were available to nearly 88% of our consolidated homes passed as of December 31, 2005.
 
Our subscription ARPU increased approximately 13% to $81 for the year ended December 31, 2005 from approximately $72 for the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of the increased penetration in advanced services and higher video prices, as discussed above.
 
Advertising revenues in 2005 increased as a result of an approximate $19 million increase in national advertising, partially offset by a $4 million decline in local advertising. This increase in national advertising was driven by growth in both rate and volume of advertising spots sold. Local advertising declined as a result of a decrease in political advertising.
Table of Contents
The primary components of costs of revenues were as follows (restated, in millions):
Costs of revenues.  
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
Total video programming costs increased by 11% in 2005. On a per subscriber basis, programming costs increased by 11%, from $16.60 per month in 2004 to $18.35 per month in 2005. These increases were primarily attributable to contractual rate increases and the ongoing deployment of new service offerings, including VOD and SVOD.
 
Employee costs increased in 2005, in part, as a result of increased headcount driven by new product deployment initiatives, including voice services. Salary increases also contributed to the increase in employee costs.
 
High-speed data costs have benefited as connectivity costs have continued to decrease on a per subscriber basis due to industry-wide cost reductions.
 
Voice service costs increased due to the ongoing deployment of our voice services product.
 
Other costs increased due largely to the revenue-driven increase in fees paid to local franchise authorities.
 
The primary components of selling, general and administrative expenses were as follows (in millions):
Selling, general and administrative expenses.  
 
 
Employee costs increased primarily due to an increase in headcount associated with the continued roll-out of advanced services, as well as salary increases, partially offset by a decrease in equity-based compensation expense. Marketing costs increased due to a continued focus on aggressive marketing of our broad range of products and services. Other costs decreased slightly primarily due to $34 million of costs incurred in 2004 in connection with a settlement related to Urban Cable, partially offset by an increase in legal fees.
 
In 2005, we expensed approximately $8 million of non-capitalizable merger-related costs associated with the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange. In addition, the 2005 results include approximately $35 million of restructuring costs, primarily associated with the early retirement of certain senior executives and the closing of several local news channels, partially offset by a $1 million reduction in restructuring charges, reflecting changes to previously established restructuring accruals. These charges are part of our broader plans to simplify our organizational structure and enhance our customer focus.
Merger-related and restructuring costs.  
Table of Contents
Reconciliation of Net income and Operating Income to OIBDA
 
The following table reconciles Net income and Operating Income to OIBDA for purposes of the discussion that follows (restated, in millions):
 
 
OIBDA increased $368 million, or 12%, from $3.0 billion in 2004 to $3.3 billion in 2005. This increase was driven by revenue growth (particularly high margin high-speed data revenues), partially offset by increases in costs of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses and the $42 million of merger-related and restructuring charges in 2005, discussed above.
OIBDA.  
 
Depreciation expense increased 10% to $1.5 billion in 2005 from $1.3 billion in 2004. This increase was primarily due to the increased spending on customer premise equipment in recent years. Such equipment generally has a shorter useful life compared to the mix of assets previously purchased.
Depreciation expense.  
 
Operating Income increased to $1.8 billion in 2005 from $1.6 billion in 2004, due to the increase in OIBDA, partially offset by the increase in depreciation expense.
Operating Income.  
 
Interest expense, net, decreased slightly from $465 million in 2004 to $464 million in 2005, primarily due to an increase in interest income associated with loans to TKCCP, which was largely offset by an increase in interest expense related to long-term debt.
Interest expense, net.  
 
Income from equity investments, net, increased slightly from $41 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005. This increase was primarily due to an increase in the profitability of iN DEMAND and a decrease in losses incurred by local news joint ventures, partially offset by a decline in profitability of TKCCP, as a result of higher interest expense associated with an increase in debt at the joint venture.
Income from equity investments, net.  
 
The results of TWE are consolidated by us for financial reporting purposes. Minority interest expense, net, increased from $56 million in 2004 to $64 million in 2005. This increase primarily reflects an increase in the profitability of TWE, in which Time Warner and Comcast had residual equity ownership interests of 1% and 4.7%, respectively, at December 31, 2005.
Minority interest expense, net.  
 
Other income decreased from $11 million in 2004 to $1 million in 2005 due to a reversal of previously established reserves associated with the dissolution of a joint venture in 2004.
Other income.  
 
Our income tax provision has been prepared as if we operated as a stand-alone taxpayer for all periods presented. The income tax provision decreased from $454 million in 2004 to $153 million in 2005. Our effective tax rate was approximately 42% in 2004 compared to 12% in 2005. The decrease in the tax provision and the effective tax rate was primarily a result of the favorable impact of state tax law changes in Ohio, an ownership restructuring in Texas and certain other methodology changes, partially offset by an increase in earnings
Income tax provision.  
Table of Contents
during 2005 as compared to 2004. The income tax provision for 2005, absent the noted deferred tax impacts, would have been $532 million, with a related effective tax rate of approximately 41%.
 
Discontinued operations, net of tax, reflect the impact of treating the Transferred Systems as discontinued operations. The increase to $104 million in 2005 from $95 million in 2004 was as a result of higher earnings at the Transferred Systems.
Discontinued operations, net of tax.  
 
Net income was $1.3 billion in 2005 compared to $726 million in 2004. This increase was due to higher Operating Income and a lower income tax provision, partially offset by higher minority interest expense.
Net income.  
 
Full year 2004 compared to full year 2003
 
Revenues by major category were as follows (in millions):
Revenues.  
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
Subscriber results were as follows (in thousands):
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
 
Total video revenues increased $354 million, or 7%, over 2003, primarily due to increased penetration of advanced digital services and higher video prices. These increases were partially offset by a decline in basic video subscribers between December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2004. Aggregate revenues derived from our advanced digital services, including digital tiers, VOD, SVOD and digital video recorders, increased 26% from $486 million in 2003 to $612 million in 2004.
Pay-Per-View,
 
High-speed data revenues increased in 2004 primarily due to growth in high-speed data subscribers, partially offset by a slight decline in the average revenue per subscriber which resulted from increased promotions. Consolidated residential high-speed data penetration, expressed as a percentage of service-ready homes, increased from 18.5% at December 31, 2003 to 21.8% at December 31, 2004. Commercial high-speed data revenues increased from $149 million in 2003 to $181 million in 2004.
 
Voice services revenues increased in 2004 as we launched our voice services product across our footprint during 2004.
Table of Contents
Our subscription ARPU increased approximately 11% to $72 for the year ended December 31, 2004 from approximately $65 for the year ended December 31, 2003 as a result of the increased penetration in advanced services and higher video prices, as discussed above.
 
Total advertising revenues increased in 2004 primarily due to an increase in general third-party advertising. General third-party advertising revenues increased by 11% from $416 million in 2003 to $460 million in 2004 due to an increase in the volume of advertising spots sold and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the rates at which the spots were sold. Third-party programming vendor advertising decreased from $10 million in 2003 to $9 million in 2004 reflecting fewer new channel launches. Related party advertising revenues increased from $11 million in 2003 to $15 million in 2004, primarily due to increased advertising by Time Warner's Turner Broadcasting unit. For more information regarding programming vendor and related party advertising, please see "Critical Accounting PoliciesMultiple-element Transactions."
 
The primary components of costs of revenues were as follows (restated, in millions):
Costs of revenues.  
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
Total video programming costs increased 12% in 2004. On a per subscriber basis, programming costs increased by 13%, from $14.75 per month in 2003 to $16.60 per month in 2004. This increase was primarily attributable to contractual rate increases, especially for sports programming, and the expansion of service offerings including VOD and SVOD.
 
Employee costs rose in 2004, in part, as a result of increased headcount driven by customer care enhancement and new product deployment initiatives. Salary increases and the increased cost of employee benefits, including costs associated with group insurance, also contributed to the increase in employee costs.
 
High-speed data costs increased slightly due to an increase in high-speed data customers, partially offset by an industry-wide decline in per subscriber network costs.
 
Voice service costs increased due to the roll-out of our voice services product.
 
Other costs increased due to the largely revenue-driven increase in fees paid to local franchising authorities.
 
The primary components of selling, general and administrative expenses were as follows (in millions):
Selling, general and administrative expenses.  
 
 
Employee costs increased due to salary increases, the increased cost of certain employee benefits and, to a lesser extent, an increase in headcount associated with the roll-out of new services, partially offset by a decrease in equity-based compensation expense. Marketing costs increased due to a heightened focus on aggressive marketing of our broad range of products and services. Other costs increased primarily due to our $34 million settlement in 2004 of a dispute relating to Urban Cable.
Table of Contents
In 2003, approximately $15 million of costs associated with the termination of certain employees of Time Warner's former Interactive Video Group Inc. ("IVG") operations were expensed. No such costs were incurred in 2004.
Merger-related and restructuring costs.  
 
Reconciliation of Net income and Operating Income to OIBDA
 
The following table reconciles Net income and Operating Income to OIBDA for purposes of the discussion that follows (restated, in millions):
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
OIBDA increased by $306 million, or 12%, from $2.6 billion in 2003 to $3.0 billion in 2004. This increase was attributable to revenue growth, partially offset by increases in costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses. We estimate that our 2004 OIBDA includes losses of approximately $45 million related to the roll-out of our voice services product. This estimate considers only incremental revenues and expenses deemed by management to be attributable to voice services and excludes any allocation of common infrastructure costs.
OIBDA.  
 
Depreciation expense increased 3% in 2004. This increase is the result of an increase in the amount of capital spending on customer premise equipment (and other relatively short-lived assets) in recent years. Due to the increase in such spending, a larger proportion of our property, plant and equipment consists of assets with shorter useful lives in 2004 than in 2003, resulting in an increase in depreciation expense.
Depreciation expense.  
 
Amortization expense increased to $72 million in 2004 from $53 million in 2003, primarily due to the recognition of a subscriber list intangible of $246 million in conjunction with the TWE Restructuring. We had three quarters of amortization expense associated with this subscriber list intangible in 2003 as compared to a full year of amortization expense in 2004.
Amortization expense.  
 
Operating Income in 2004 increased to $1.6 billion from $1.3 billion in 2003 due to the increase in OIBDA, partially offset by the increase in depreciation and amortization expense.
Operating Income.  
 
Interest expense, net, decreased from $492 million in 2003 to $465 million in 2004. This decrease of $27 million, or 5%, was primarily due to reduced average debt outstanding on our bank credit facilities. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in variable interest rates and increased interest paid on our $2.4 billion mandatorily redeemable preferred stock, which was outstanding for only three quarters in 2003.
Interest expense, net.  
 
Income from equity investments, net, increased to $41 million in 2004 compared to $33 million in 2003. This increase was primarily due to reduced losses associated with the Women's Professional Soccer League joint venture which was disbanded in 2003 and an increase in the profitability of iN DEMAND and TKCCP, partially offset by impairment charges recorded for certain local news joint ventures.
Income from equity investments, net.  
Table of Contents
Minority interest expense, net, was $56 million in 2004 compared to $59 million in 2003.
Minority interest expense, net.  
 
We recorded $11 million of other income in 2004 related to the reversal of a previously established reserve associated with the dissolution of a joint venture.
Other income.  
 
Our income tax provision has been prepared as if we operated as a stand-alone taxpayer. We had an income tax provision of $454 million in 2004, compared to $327 million in 2003 and an effective tax rate of approximately 42% in both years. This increase in provision reflects the corresponding increase in earnings.
Income tax provision.  
 
Our income before discontinued operations was $631 million in 2004 compared to $457 million in 2003. Our 2004 results benefited from an increase in Operating Income, reduced interest expense, an increase in income from equity investments and increased other income, partially offset by increased income tax expense.
Income before discontinued operations.  
 
Discontinued operations, net of tax was $95 million in 2004 compared to $207 million in 2003. Our 2004 and 2003 results include the treatment of certain cable systems transferred to Comcast in the Redemptions as discontinued operations, and our 2003 results also include the treatment of the TWE Non-cable Businesses that were distributed to Time Warner in 2003 as part of the TWE Restructuring as discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations, net of tax.  
 
Net income was $726 million in 2004 compared to $664 million in 2003. This increase was driven by the previously discussed increase in income before discontinued operations, partially offset by the decrease in income from discontinued operations.
Net income.  
 
Financial Condition and Liquidity
 
Current Financial Condition
 
Management believes that cash generated by operating activities or available to us from existing credit agreements should be sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. Our sources of cash include cash provided by operating activities, the repayment of the TKCCP debt owed to TWE-A/N, available borrowing capacity of $2.5 billion under our committed credit facilities as of September 30, 2006, and availability under our commercial paper program. On December 4, 2006, we entered into a new $6.0 billion unsecured commercial paper program to replace our existing $2.0 billion unsecured commercial paper program.
 
At September 30, 2006, we had $15.0 billion of debt and TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units, no cash and equivalents and $23.5 billion of shareholders' equity. At December 31, 2005, we had $6.9 billion of debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity, $12 million of cash and equivalents and $20.3 billion of shareholders' equity.
 
With the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions, our outstanding debt has increased substantially during 2006. Accordingly, cash paid for interest is expected to negatively impact cash provided by operating activities. Management does not believe that the interest incurred with respect to funding the Transactions will result in a significant negative impact to net income because such incremental interest is expected to be substantially offset by the positive earnings before interest of the Acquired Systems.
Table of Contents
The following table shows the significant items contributing to the increase in net debt (defined as total debt, mandatorily redeemable preferred equity and TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units less cash and equivalents) from December 31, 2005 to September 30, 2006 (in millions):
 
 
On July 31, 2006, TW NY, a subsidiary of ours, acquired assets of Adelphia for a combination of cash and our stock. We also redeemed Comcast's interests in us and TWE, and TW NY exchanged certain cable systems with subsidiaries of Comcast. For additional details, see "Business Transactions and Developments."
 
In connection with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY paid approximately $8.9 billion in cash, after giving effect to certain purchase price adjustments, that was funded by an intercompany loan from us and the proceeds of the private placement issuance of $300 million of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units with a mandatory redemption date of August 1, 2013 and a cash dividend rate of 8.21% per annum. The intercompany loan was financed by borrowings under our $6.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with a maturity date of February 15, 2011 (the "Cable Revolving Facility"), our two $4.0 billion term loan facilities (the "Cable Term Facilities" and, together with the Cable Revolving Facility, the "Cable Facilities") with maturity dates of February 24, 2009 and February 21, 2011, respectively, and the issuance of commercial paper. In connection with the TWC Redemption, Comcast received 100% of the capital stock of a subsidiary of ours holding both cable systems and approximately $1.9 billion in cash that was funded through the issuance of commercial paper of our company and borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility. In addition, in connection with the TWE Redemption, Comcast received 100% of the equity interests in a subsidiary of TWE holding both cable systems and approximately $147 million in cash that was funded by the repayment of a pre-existing loan TWE had made to us (which repayment we funded through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility). Following these transactions, TW NY also exchanged certain cable systems with subsidiaries of Comcast and TW NY paid Comcast approximately $67 million for certain adjustments related to the Exchange. For more information on our credit facilities and commercial paper program, see "Bank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs."
 
We are a participant in a wireless spectrum joint venture with several other cable companies and Sprint Nextel Corporation (the "Wireless Joint Venture"), which was a winning bidder in an FCC auction of certain advanced wireless spectrum licenses. In July 2006, we paid a deposit of approximately $182 million related to our investment in the Wireless Joint Venture. On October 18, 2006, we paid an additional $450 million relating to this investment. The licenses were awarded to the Wireless Joint Venture on November 29, 2006. Under the joint venture agreement, Sprint has the ability to exit the venture upon 60 days' notice and to require that the venture purchase its interests for an amount equal to Sprint's capital contributions to that point. In addition, under certain circumstances, the cable operators that are members of the venture have the ability to exit the venture and receive, subject to certain limitations and adjustments, AWS licenses covering their operating areas. There can be no assurance that the venture will develop mobile and related services or, if developed, that such services will be successful.
 
On October 2, 2006, we received approximately $630 million from Comcast for the repayment of debt owed by TKCCP to TWE-A/N that had been allocated to the Houston Pool.
Table of Contents
In connection with the Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY issued $300 million of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units. Additionally, on July 28, 2006, ATC's 1% common equity interest and $2.4 billion preferred equity interest in TWE were contributed to TW NY Holding in exchange for a 12.4% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding. See "Bank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs," "Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity" and "TW NY Mandatorily Redeemable Non-voting Series A Preferred Membership Units" for additional information on the indebtedness incurred and preferred membership units issued in connection with the Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions.
 
Cash Flows
 
Cash provided by operating activities increased from $1.8 billion for the first nine months of 2005 to $2.6 billion for the first nine months of 2006. This increase is primarily related to a $496 million increase in OIBDA (attributable to the impact of the Acquired Systems and revenue growth in our legacy systems, (particularly high margin high-speed data revenues), partially offset by higher costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses), a $101 million decrease in net income taxes paid, and a $274 million decrease in working capital requirements, partially offset by a $71 million decrease related to discontinued operations and an increase in merger-related and restructuring payments.
Operating activities.  
 
Cash provided by operating activities decreased from $2.7 billion in 2004 to $2.5 billion in 2005. This decrease of $121 million was principally due to a $548 million increase in net cash tax payments, partially offset by a $368 million increase in OIBDA (attributable to revenue growth (particularly high margin high-speed data revenues), partially offset by increases in costs of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses and merger-related and restructuring costs), and a $59 million decrease in contributions to our pension plans.
 
Cash provided by operating activities increased from $2.1 billion in 2003 to $2.7 billion in 2004. Excluding the $453 million and $240 million of cash flows provided from discontinued operations in 2003 and 2004, respectively, our cash provided by operating activities increased from $1.7 billion in 2003 to $2.4 billion in 2004. This increase of $746 million was principally due to a $389 million decrease in cash net tax payments, a $306 million increase in OIBDA (attributable to revenue growth, partially offset by increases in costs of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses), and a $58 million decrease in contributions to our pension plans.
 
Cash used by investing activities increased from $1.5 billion for the first nine months of 2005 to $11.2 billion for the first nine months of 2006. This increase was principally due to $9.1 billion used in the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange and a $415 million increase in capital expenditures from continuing operations, driven by the continued roll-out of advanced digital services, including voice services, continued growth in high-speed data services and capital expenditures associated with the integration of the Acquired Systems. The increase also reflects a $182 million investment in the Wireless Joint Venture and $147 million of cash used in the TWE Redemption, partially offset by a $55 million decrease in investment spending related to our equity investments and other acquisition-related expenditures and a $49 million decrease in capital expenditures from discontinued operations.
Investing activities.  
 
Cash used by investing activities increased from $1.8 billion in 2004 to $2.1 billion in 2005. This increase was principally due to a $278 million increase in capital expenditures from continuing operations, a $44 million increase in cash used by investing activities of discontinued operations and a $25 million increase in acquisition-related expenditures, partially offset by a $15 million decrease in investment spending related to our equity investments and a $15 million decrease in capital expenditures from discontinued operations. The increase in capital expenditures in 2005 was primarily associated with increased spending associated with the continued roll-out of advanced digital services, including voice services.
 
Cash used by investing activities decreased from $1.9 billion in 2003 to $1.8 billion in 2004. This decline was principally due to the decrease in cash used by investing activities of discontinued operations and decreased investment and acquisition expenditures. This decline was partially offset by a $35 million increase in capital expenditures from continuing operations, which were primarily attributable to our roll-out of voice services.
Table of Contents
Our capital expenditures from continuing operations included the following major categories (in millions):
 
 
 
 
We incur expenditures associated with the construction of our cable systems. Costs associated with the construction of the cable transmission and distribution facilities and new cable service installations are capitalized. We generally capitalize expenditures for tangible fixed assets having a useful life of greater than one year. Capitalized costs include direct material, labor and overhead and interest. Sales and marketing costs, as well as the costs of repairing or maintaining existing fixed assets, are expensed as incurred. With respect to customer premise equipment, which includes converters and cable modems, we capitalize installation charges only upon the initial deployment of these assets. All costs incurred in subsequent disconnects and reconnects are expensed as incurred. Depreciation on these assets is provided, generally using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives. For converters and modems, the useful life is 3 to 4 years and, for plant upgrades, the useful life is up to 16 years.
 
In connection with the Transactions, TW NY acquired significant amounts of property, plant and equipment, which was recorded at their estimated fair values. The remaining useful lives assigned to such assets were generally shorter than the useful lives assigned to comparable new assets to reflect the age, condition and intended use of the acquired property, plant and equipment.
 
As a result of the Transactions, we have made and anticipate continuing to make significant capital expenditures over the next 12 to 24 months related to the continued integration of the Acquired Systems, including improvements to plant and technical performance and upgrading system capacity, which will allow us to offer our advanced services and features in the Acquired Systems. We estimate that these expenditures will range from approximately $450 million to $550 million (including amounts incurred through September 30, 2006). We do not believe that these expenditures will have a material negative impact on our liquidity or capital resources.
 
Cash provided by financing activities was $8.6 billion for the first nine months of 2006 compared to cash used by financing activities of $410 million for the first nine months of 2005. This increase in cash provided (used) by financing activities was due to a $10.6 billion increase in net borrowings primarily associated with the Transactions and the issuance of $300 million of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units, partially offset by $1.9 billion of cash used in the TWC Redemption.
Financing activities.  
 
Cash used by financing activities decreased from $1.1 billion in 2004 to $498 million in 2005. This decrease was primarily due to a $636 million decline in net repayments of debt, partially offset by a $17 million increase in
Table of Contents
net partnership tax distributions and stock option distributions and $45 million of cash used by financing activities of discontinued operations in 2005.
 
Cash used by financing activities increased from $737 million for 2003 to $1.1 billion in 2004. This increase was primarily due to the $339 million increase in net repayments of debt, partially offset by a decline in cash used by financing activities of discontinued operations.
 
Free Cash Flow
 
  The following table reconciles Cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow (in millions):
Reconciliation of Cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow.
 
 
Our Free Cash Flow increased to $732 million during the first nine months of 2006, as compared to $327 million during the first nine months of 2005. This increase of $405 million was primarily driven by a $496 million increase in OIBDA, as previously discussed, and a $101 million decrease in net income taxes paid and a decrease in working capital requirements, partially offset by a $415 million increase in capital expenditures from continuing operations.
 
Our Free Cash Flow decreased to $435 million during 2005 as compared to $851 million during 2004. This decrease of $416 million was primarily driven by a $548 million increase in net cash tax payments and a $278 million increase in capital expenditures from continuing operations, partially offset by a $368 million increase in OIBDA, as previously discussed, and a $59 million decrease in contributions to our pension plans.
 
Our Free Cash Flow increased to $851 million during 2004 as compared to $118 million during 2003. This increase of $733 million was primarily driven by a $389 million decrease in net cash tax payments, a $306 million increase in OIBDA, as previously discussed, and a $58 million decrease in contributions to our pension plans, partially offset by a $35 million increase in capital expenditures from continuing operations.
Table of Contents
Outstanding Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity and Available Financial Capacity
 
Our debt, mandatorily redeemable preferred equity and unused borrowing capacity, as of September 30, 2006 were as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
Primarily as a result of the Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions, our borrowings under our Cable Revolving Facility, Cable Term Facilities and commercial paper program increased to approximately $1.9 billion, $8.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, at September 30, 2006. Additionally, TW NY issued $300 million of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units, and ATC's 1% common equity interest and $2.4 billion preferred equity interest in TWE were contributed to TW NY Holding in exchange for a 12.4% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding. See "Bank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs," "Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity" and "TW NY Mandatorily Redeemable Non-voting Series A Preferred Membership Units" for additional information on the indebtedness incurred and preferred membership units issued in connection with the Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions.
 
Bank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs
 
As of December 31, 2005, we and TWE were borrowers under a $4.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit agreement and maintained unsecured commercial paper programs of $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, which were supported by unused capacity under the credit facility. In the first quarter of 2006, we entered into $14.0 billion of new bank credit agreements, which refinanced $4.0 billion of previously existing committed bank financing, and provided additional commitments to finance, in part, the cash portions of the Transactions. The increased commitments became available concurrently with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition.
 
Following the financing transactions described above, we have a $6.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with a maturity date of February 15, 2011. This represents a refinancing of our previous $4.0 billion of revolving bank commitments with a maturity date of November 23, 2009, plus an increase of $2.0 billion that became effective concurrent with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition. Also effective concurrent with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition are two $4.0 billion term loan facilities with maturity dates of February 24, 2009 and February 21, 2011, respectively. TWE is no longer a borrower in respect of any of the Cable Facilities, although TWE has guaranteed our obligations under the Cable Facilities. Additionally, as of October 18, 2006, TW NY Holding unconditionally guaranteed our obligations under the Cable Facilities and TW NY was released from its guaranties of our obligations under the Cable Facilities. As noted below, prior to
Table of Contents
November 2, 2006, WCI and ATC, subsidiaries of Time Warner, guaranteed our obligations under the Cable Facilities.
 
Borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility bear interest at a rate based on our credit rating, which rate was LIBOR plus 0.27% per annum as of September 30, 2006. In addition, we are required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitments under the Cable Revolving Facility at a rate determined by our credit rating, which rate was 0.08% per annum as of September 30, 2006. We may also incur an additional usage fee of 0.10% per annum on the outstanding loans and other extensions of credit under the Cable Revolving Facility if and when such amounts exceed 50% of the aggregate commitments thereunder. Effective concurrent with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, borrowings under the Cable Term Facilities bear interest at a rate based on our credit rating, which rate was LIBOR plus 0.40% per annum as of September 30, 2006.
 
The Cable Revolving Facility provides funding capability and a portion of the commitment, not to exceed $500 million at any time, may be used for the issuance of letters of credit. The Cable Facilities contain a maximum leverage ratio covenant of 5.0 times our consolidated EBITDA. The terms and related financial metrics associated with the leverage ratio are defined in the Cable Facility agreements. At September 30, 2006, we were in compliance with the leverage covenant, with a leverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the agreements, of approximately 3.7 times. The Cable Facilities do not contain any credit ratings-based defaults or covenants or any ongoing covenant or representations specifically relating to a material adverse change in the financial condition or results of operations of Time Warner or us. Borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and unused credit is available to support borrowings under our commercial paper program. Borrowings under the Cable Term Facilities were used to finance, in part, the cash portions of the payments made in the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange. As of September 30, 2006, there were borrowings of $1.875 billion and letters of credit of $159 million outstanding under our Cable Revolving Facility.
same-day
 
Additionally, as of September 30, 2006, we maintained a $2.0 billion unsecured commercial paper program. Our commercial paper borrowings are supported by the unused committed capacity of the Cable Revolving Facility. TWE is a guarantor of commercial paper issued by us. In addition, WCI and ATC previously guaranteed a pro-rata portion of TWE's obligations in respect of its guaranty of commercial paper issued by us. There were generally no restrictions on the ability of WCI and ATC to transfer material assets to parties that are not guarantors. The commercial paper issued by us ranks pari passu with our other unsecured senior indebtedness. As of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, there was approximately $1.454 billion and $1.101 billion, respectively, of commercial paper outstanding under our commercial paper program. TWE's commercial paper program has been terminated.
 
On October 18, 2006, TW NY Holding executed and delivered unconditional guaranties of our obligations under the Cable Facilities. In addition, on October 18, 2006, TW NY was released from its guaranties of our obligations under the Cable Facilities in accordance with the terms of the Cable Facilities. Following the adoption of the amendments to the TWE Indenture on November 2, 2006, pursuant to the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, as discussed below, the guaranties provided by ATC and WCI of our obligations under the Cable Facilities were automatically terminated in accordance with the terms of the Cable Facilities.
 
On December 4, 2006, we entered into a new unsecured commercial paper program (the "New Program") to replace our existing $2.0 billion commercial paper program (the "Prior Program"). The New Program provides for the issuance of up to $6.0 billion of commercial paper at any time, and our obligations under the New Program will be guaranteed by TW NY Holding and TWE, both subsidiaries of ours, while our obligations under the Prior Program are guaranteed by ATC, WCI (both subsidiaries of Time Warner but not us) and TWE. Commercial paper issued under the Prior Program and the New Program are supported by the unused committed capacity of our Cable Revolving Facility.
 
No new commercial paper will be issued under the Prior Program after December 4, 2006. Amounts currently outstanding under the Prior Program have not been modified by the changes reflected in the New Program and will be repaid on the original maturity dates. Once all outstanding commercial paper under the Prior Program has been repaid, the Prior Program will terminate. Until all commercial paper outstanding under the Prior Program has been repaid, the aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding under the Prior Program and the New Program will not exceed $6.0 billion at any time.
Table of Contents
TW NY Mandatorily Redeemable Non-voting Series A Preferred Membership Units
 
In connection with the financing of the Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY issued $300 million of its Series A Preferred Membership Units to a number of third parties. The TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units pay cash dividends at an annual rate equal to 8.21% of the sum of the liquidation preference thereof and any accrued but unpaid dividends thereon, on a quarterly basis. The TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units are entitled to mandatory redemption by TW NY on August 1, 2013 and are not redeemable by TW NY at any time prior to that date. The redemption price of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units is equal to their liquidation preference plus any accrued and unpaid dividends through the redemption date. Except under limited circumstances, holders of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units have no voting rights.
 
The terms of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units require that holders owning a majority of the preferred units approve any agreement for a material sale or transfer by TW NY and its subsidiaries of assets at any time during which TW NY and its subsidiaries maintain, collectively, cable systems serving fewer than 500,000 cable subscribers, or that would (after giving effect to such asset sale) cause TW NY to maintain, directly or indirectly, fewer than 500,000 cable subscribers, unless the net proceeds of the asset sale are applied to fund the redemption of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units and the sale occurs on or immediately prior to the redemption date. Additionally, for so long as the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units remain outstanding, TW NY may not merge or consolidate with another company, or convert from a limited liability company to a corporation, partnership or other entity, unless (i) such merger or consolidation is permitted by the asset sale covenant described above, (ii) if TW NY is not the surviving entity or is no longer a limited liability company, the then holders of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units have the right to receive from the surviving entity securities with terms at least as favorable as the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units and (iii) if TW NY is the surviving entity, the tax characterization of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units would not be affected by the merger or consolidation. Any securities received from a surviving entity as a result of a merger or consolidation or the conversion into a corporation, partnership or other entity must rank senior to any other securities of the surviving entity with respect to dividends and distributions or rights upon a liquidation.
 
TWE Notes and Debentures
 
During 1992 and 1993, TWE issued the TWE Notes publicly in a number of offerings. The maturities of these outstanding issuances ranged from 15 to 40 years and the fixed interest rates range from 7.25% to 10.15%. The fixed-rate borrowings include an unamortized debt premium of $154 million and $167 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The debt premium is amortized over the term of each debt issue as a reduction of interest expense. As discussed below, we and TW NY Holding have each guaranteed TWE's obligations under the TWE Notes. Prior to November 2, 2006, ATC and WCI each guaranteed pro rata portions of the TWE Notes based on the relative fair value of the net assets that each contributed to TWE prior to the TWE Restructuring. On September 10, 2003, TWE submitted an application with the SEC to withdraw its 7.25% Senior Debentures (due 2008) from listing and registration on the NYSE. The application to withdraw was granted by the SEC effective on October 17, 2003. As a result, TWE has no obligation to file reports with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").
 
Pursuant to the Ninth Supplemental Indenture to the TWE Indenture, TW NY, a subsidiary of ours and a successor in interest to Time Warner NY Cable Inc., agreed to waive, for so long as it remained a general partner of TWE, the benefit of certain provisions in the TWE Indenture which provided that it would not have any liability for the TWE Notes as a general partner of TWE (the "TW NY Waiver"). Also on October 18, 2006, TW NY contributed all of its general partnership interests in TWE to TWE GP Holdings LLC, its wholly owned subsidiary, and as a result, the TW NY Waiver, by its terms, ceased to be in effect.
 
On October 18, 2006, we, together with TWE, TW NY Holding, ATC, WCI and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, entered into the Tenth Supplemental Indenture to the TWE Indenture. Pursuant to the Tenth Supplemental Indenture to the TWE Indenture, TW NY Holding fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the payment of principal and interest on the TWE Notes. On October 19, 2006, TWE commenced a consent solicitation to amend the TWE Indenture. On November 2, 2006, the consent solicitation was completed and we, TWE, TW NY Holding and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, entered into the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture to the TWE Indenture,
Table of Contents
which (i) amended the guaranty of the TWE Notes previously provided by us to provide a direct guaranty of the TWE Notes by us rather than a guaranty of the TW Partner Guaranties (as defined below), (ii) terminated the guaranties (the "TW Partner Guaranties") previously provided by ATC and WCI, which entities are subsidiaries of Time Warner, and (iii) amended TWE's reporting obligations under the TWE Indenture to allow TWE to provide holders of the TWE Notes with quarterly and annual reports that we (or any other ultimate parent guarantor, as described in the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture) would be required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act, if it were required to file such reports with the SEC in respect of the TWE Notes pursuant to such section of the Exchange Act, subject to certain exceptions as described in the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture.
 
Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
On July 28, 2006, ATC, a subsidiary of Time Warner, contributed its $2.4 billion of mandatorily redeemable preferred equity interest and a 1% common equity interest in TWE to TW NY Holding in exchange for a 12.4% non-voting common equity interest in TW NY Holding. TWE originally issued the $2.4 billion mandatorily redeemable preferred equity to ATC in connection with the TWE Restructuring. The issuance was a noncash transaction. The preferred equity pays cash distributions on a quarterly basis, at an annual rate of 8.059% of its face value, and is required to be redeemed by TWE in cash on April 1, 2023.
 
Time Warner Approval Rights
 
Under the Shareholder Agreement between us and Time Warner, we are required to obtain Time Warner's approval prior to incurring additional debt or rental expenses (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or issuing preferred equity, if our consolidated ratio of debt, including preferred equity, plus six times our annual rental expense to EBITDAR (the "TW Leverage Ratio") then exceeds, or would as a result of the incurrence or issuance exceed, 3:1. Under certain circumstances, we also include the indebtedness, annual rental expense obligations and EBITDAR of certain unconsolidated entities that we manage and/or in which we own an equity interest, in our calculation of the TW Leverage Ratio. The Shareholder Agreement defines EBITDAR, at any time of measurement, as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and rental expense (for any lease that is not accounted for as a capital lease) for the twelve months ending on the last day of our most recent fiscal quarter, including certain adjustments to reflect the impact of significant transactions as if they had occurred at the beginning of the period.
 
The following table sets forth our calculation of the TW Leverage Ratio for the twelve months ended September 30, 2006 (in millions, except ratio):
 
 
As indicated in the table above, as of September 30, 2006, the TW Leverage Ratio exceeded 3:1. Although Time Warner has consented to the issuance of commercial paper under our $6.0 billion commercial paper program or borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility, any other incurrence of debt or rental expenses (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or issuance of preferred stock will require Time Warner's approval, until such time as the TW Leverage Ratio is no longer exceeded. This limits our ability to incur future debt and rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) and issue preferred equity without the consent of Time Warner and limits our flexibility in pursuing financing alternatives and business opportunities.
 
Firm Commitments
 
We have commitments under various firm contractual arrangements to make future payments for goods and services. These firm commitments secure future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. For example, we are contractually committed to make some minimum lease payments for the use of
Table of Contents
property under operating lease agreements. In accordance with current accounting rules, the future rights and obligations pertaining to these contracts are not reflected as assets or liabilities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
 
The following table summarizes our material firm commitments at September 30, 2006 and the timing of and effect that these obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods. This table excludes certain Adelphia and Comcast commitments, which we did not assume, and excludes commitments related to other entities, including certain unconsolidated equity method investees. We expect to fund these firm commitments with cash provided by operating activities generated in the normal course of business.
 
 
 
Our total rent expense, which primarily includes facility rental expense and pole attachment rental fees, amounted to $106 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and $98 million, $101 million and $90 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
Contingent Commitments
 
Prior to the TWE Restructuring, TWE had various contingent commitments, including guarantees, related to the TWE Non-cable Businesses. In connection with the restructuring of TWE, some of these commitments were not transferred with their applicable Non-cable Business and they remain contingent commitments of TWE. Specifically, in connection with the Non-cable Businesses' former investment in the Six Flags theme parks located in Georgia and Texas ("Six Flags Georgia" and "Six Flags Texas," respectively, and collectively, the "Parks"), Time Warner and TWE each agreed to guarantee (the "Six Flags Guarantee") certain obligations of the partnerships that hold the Parks (the "Partnerships"), including the following (the "Guaranteed Obligations"): (a) the obligation to make a minimum amount of annual distributions to the limited partners of the Partnerships; (b) the obligation to make a minimum amount of capital expenditures each year; (c) the requirement that an annual offer to purchase be made in respect of 5% of the limited partnership units of the Partnerships (plus any such units not purchased in any prior year) based on an aggregate price for all limited partnership units at the higher of (i) $250 million in the case of Six Flags Georgia or $374.8 million in the case of Six Flags Texas and (ii) a weighted average multiple of EBITDA for the respective Park over the previous four-year period; (d) ground lease payments; and (e) either (i) the purchase
Table of Contents
of all of the outstanding limited partnership units upon the earlier of the occurrence of certain specified events and the end of the term of each of the Partnerships in 2027 (Six Flags Georgia) and 2028 (Six Flags Texas) (the "End of Term Purchase") or (ii) the obligation to cause each of the Partnerships to have no indebtedness and to meet certain other financial tests as of the end of the term of the Partnership. The aggregate purchase price for the limited partnership units pursuant to the End of Term Purchase is $250 million in the case of Six Flags Georgia and $374.8 million in the case of Six Flags Texas (in each case, subject to a consumer price index based adjustment calculated annually from 1998 in respect of Six Flags Georgia and 1999 in respect of Six Flags Texas). Such aggregate amount will be reduced ratably to reflect limited partnership units previously purchased.
 
In connection with the 1998 sale of Six Flags Entertainment Corporation to Six Flags Inc. (formerly Premier Parks Inc.) ("Six Flags"), Six Flags, Historic TW and TWE, among others, entered into a Subordinated Indemnity Agreement pursuant to which Six Flags agreed to guarantee the performance of the Guaranteed Obligations when due and to indemnify Historic TW and TWE, among others, in the event that the Guaranteed Obligations are not performed and the Six Flags Guarantee is called upon. In the event of a default of Six Flags' obligations under the Subordinated Indemnity Agreement, the Subordinated Indemnity Agreement and related agreements provide, among other things, that Historic TW and TWE have the right to acquire control of the managing partner of the Parks. Six Flags' obligations to Historic TW and TWE are further secured by its interest in all limited partnership units that are purchased by Six Flags.
 
Additionally, Time Warner and WCI have agreed, on a joint and several basis, to indemnify TWE from and against any and all of these contingent liabilities, but TWE remains a party to these commitments. In the event that TWE is required to make a payment related to any contingent liabilities of the TWE Non-cable Businesses, TWE will recognize an expense from discontinued operations and will receive a capital contribution from Time Warner and/or its subsidiary WCI for reimbursement of the incurred expenses. Additionally, costs related to any acquisition and subsequent distribution to Time Warner would also be treated as an expense of discontinued operations to be reimbursed by Time Warner.
 
To date, no payments have been made by Historic TW or TWE pursuant to the Six Flags Guarantee.
 
We have cable franchise agreements containing provisions requiring the construction of cable plant and the provision of services to customers within the franchise areas. In connection with these obligations under existing franchise agreements, we obtain surety bonds or letters of credit guaranteeing performance to municipalities and public utilities and payment of insurance premiums. We have also obtained letters of credit for several of our joint ventures and other obligations. Should these joint ventures default on their obligations supported by the letters of credit, we would be obligated to pay these costs to the extent of the letters of credit. Such surety bonds and letters of credit as of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 amounted to $327 million and $245 million, respectively. Payments under these arrangements are required only in the event of nonperformance. We do not expect that these contingent commitments will result in any amounts being paid in the foreseeable future.
 
We are required to make cash distributions to Time Warner when our employees exercise previously issued Time Warner stock options. For more information, please see "Market Risk ManagementEquity Risk" below.
 
Market Risk Management
 
Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and changes in the market value of investments.
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
As of December 31, 2005, we had an outstanding balance of variable-rate debt of $1.1 billion, which excludes an unamortized discount adjustment of $4 million. Based on the variable-rate obligations outstanding at December 31, 2005, each 25 basis point increase or decrease in the level of interest rates would, respectively, increase or decrease our annual interest expense and related cash payments by approximately $3 million. As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately $11.3 billion of variable-rate debt, which excludes an unamortized discount adjustment of $10 million. Based on the variable-rate obligations outstanding as of September 30, 2006, each 25 basis point increase or decrease in the level of interest rates, would, respectively,
Variable-rate debt.  
Table of Contents
increase or decrease our annual interest expense and related cash payments by approximately $28 million. These potential increases or decreases are based on simplifying assumptions, including a constant level of variable-rate debt for all maturities and an immediate, curve increase or decrease in the level of interest rates with no other subsequent changes for the remainder of the periods.
across-the-yield
 
As of December 31, 2005, we had an outstanding balance of $5.8 billion of fixed-rate debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity, including an unamortized fair value adjustment of $154 million. Based on the fixed-rate debt obligations outstanding at December 31, 2005, a 25 basis point increase or decrease in the level of interest rates would, respectively, decrease or increase the fair value of the fixed-rate debt by approximately $131 million. As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately $3.6 billion of fixed-rate debt and TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units, including an amortized fair value adjustment of $144 million. Based on the fixed-rate debt obligations outstanding at September 30, 2006, a 25 basis point increase or decrease in the level of interest would, respectively, increase or decrease the fair value of the fixed-rate debt by approximately $77 million. These potential increases or decreases are based on simplifying assumptions, including a constant level and rate of fixed-rate debt and an immediate, increase or decrease in the level of interest rates with no other subsequent changes for the remainder of the periods.
Fixed-rate debt.  
across-the-board
 
Equity Risk
 
We are also exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our investments. We invest in equity instruments of private companies for operational and strategic business purposes. These investments are subject to significant fluctuations in fair market value due to volatility of the industries in which the companies operate. As of December 31, 2005, we had $2.0 billion of investments, primarily consisting of TKCCP, which were accounted for using the equity method of accounting. As of September 30, 2006, on a pro forma basis, we had approximately $264 million of investments remaining. This decrease reflects the anticipated dissolution of TKCCP.
 
Some of our employees have been granted options to purchase shares of Time Warner common stock in connection with their past employment with subsidiaries and affiliates of Time Warner. We have agreed that, upon the exercise by any of our officers or employees of any options to purchase Time Warner common stock, we will reimburse Time Warner in an amount equal to the excess of the closing price of a share of Time Warner common stock on the date of the exercise of the option over the aggregate exercise price paid by the exercising officer or employee for each share of Time Warner common stock. At September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we had accrued approximately $59 million and $55 million, respectively, of stock option distributions payable to Time Warner. That amount, which is not payable until the underlying options are exercised and then only subject to limitations on cash distributions in accordance with the senior unsecured revolving credit facilities, will be adjusted in subsequent accounting periods based on changes in the quoted market prices for Time Warner's common stock. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 and Note 3 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, both of which are included elsewhere in this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
The SEC considers an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results, and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by our management and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the audit committee of our board of directors. For a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed below, see Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 included elsewhere in this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
  Asset Impairments
 
  Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is to identify a potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. We have identified six reporting units based
Goodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets.
Table of Contents
on the geographic locations of our systems. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit are determined using various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires one to make various judgmental assumptions including assumptions about future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on our budget and business plan and we make assumptions about the perpetual growth rate for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting units. In estimating the fair values of our reporting units, we also use research analyst estimates, as well as comparable market analyses. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not deemed to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not performed. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In other words, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit.
 
The impairment test for other intangible assets not subject to amortization consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. We have identified six units of accounting based upon geographic locations of our systems in performing our testing. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair value of intangible assets not subject to amortization are determined using various discounted cash flow valuation methodologies. The methodology used to value the cable franchises entails identifying the projected discrete cash flows related to such franchises and discounting them back to the valuation date. Significant assumptions inherent in the methodologies employed include estimates of discount rates. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the respective intangible assets.
 
Our 2005 annual impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter, did not result in an impairment charge. For all reporting units, the 2005 estimated fair values were within 10% of respective book values. Applying a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit would result in a greater book value than fair value for cable franchises in the amount of approximately $150 million. Other intangible assets not subject to amortization are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. As a result of the Redemptions, we updated our annual impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization and such tests did not result in an impairment charge.
 
  In determining whether finite-lived intangible assets (e.g., customer relationships) are impaired, the accounting rules do not provide for an annual impairment test. Instead, they require that a triggering event occur before testing an asset for impairment. Such triggering events include the significant disposal of a portion of such assets or the occurrence of an adverse change in the market involving the business employing the related asset. The Redemptions were a triggering event for testing such assets for impairment. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. If the intent is to hold the asset for continued use, the impairment test first requires a comparison of undiscounted future cash flows against the carrying value of the asset. If the carrying value of such asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flow, the asset would be deemed to be impaired. Impairment would then be measured as the difference between the fair value of the asset and our carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by discounting the future cash flows associated with that asset. If the intent is to hold the asset for sale and certain other criteria are met (e.g., the asset can be disposed of currently, appropriate levels of authority have approved the sale or there is an actively pursuing buyer), the impairment test involves comparing the asset's carrying value to our fair value. To the extent the carrying value is greater than the asset's fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference.
Finite-lived Intangible Assets.
Table of Contents
Significant judgments in this area involve determining whether a triggering event has occurred and the determination of the cash flows for the assets involved and the discount rate to be applied in determining fair value. There was no impairment of finite-lived intangible assets in 2005 or in connection with testing done as a result of the Redemptions.
 
  
Equity-based Compensation Expense
 
We account for equity-based compensation in accordance with FAS 123R. The provisions of FAS 123R require a company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost is recognized in the statement of operations over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. See Note 1 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, each of which is included elsewhere in this Current Report on for additional discussion.
Form 8-K,
 
The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, consistent with the provisions of FAS 123R and SAB No. 107, . Because option-pricing models require the use of subjective assumptions, changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value of the options. The assumptions presented in the table below represent the weighted-average value of the applicable assumption used to value stock options at their grant date.
Share-Based Payment
 
 
The two most significant judgments involved in the selection of fair value assumptions are the expected volatility of Time Warner's common stock and the expected term to exercise from grant date. In estimating expected volatility, we look to the volatility implied by long-term traded Time Warner options (i.e., terms of two years). Because Time Warner options granted to our employees have terms greater than two years, the volatility implied by the traded Time Warner options is adjusted to reflect the expected life of the options. In estimating the expected term of stock options granted to an employee, we utilize a mathematical model which considers factors such as historical employee exercise patterns and volatility of Time Warner common stock to predict the expected term of an employee stock option. The judgments involved here also include determining whether different segments of the employee population have different exercise behavior. Separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. The risk-free rate assumed in valuing the options is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. We determine the expected dividend yield percentage by dividing the expected annual dividend by the market price of Time Warner common stock at the date of grant.
 
Our stock option compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 was $24 million and $44 million, respectively, and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $53 million, $66 million and $93 million, respectively. The weighted-average fair value of an option for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 was $4.47 and $5.11, respectively, and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, was $5.11, $5.11 and $4.06, respectively. A one year increase in the expected term, from 5.07 years to 6.07 years, while holding all other assumptions constant, would result in an increase to the 2006 weighted-average grant date fair value of approximately $0.44 per option, resulting in approximately $4 million of additional compensation expense recognized in income over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. A 500 basis point increase in the volatility, from 22.2% to 27.2%, while holding all other assumptions constant, would result in an increase to the 2006 weighted-average grant date fair value of approximately $0.61 per option, resulting in approximately $5 million of additional compensation
Table of Contents
expense recognized in income over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award.
 
  Multiple-element Transactions
 
Multiple-element transactions involve situations where judgment must be exercised in determining fair value of the different elements in a bundled transaction. As the term is used here, multiple-element arrangements can involve:
 
 
  In the normal course of business, we enter into multiple-element transactions where we are simultaneously both a customer and a vendor with the same counterparty. For example, when negotiating the terms of programming purchase contracts with cable networks, we may at the same time negotiate for the sale of advertising to the same cable network. Arrangements, although negotiated contemporaneously, may be documented in one or more contracts. In accounting for such arrangements, we look to the guidance contained in the following authoritative literature:
Contemporaneous purchases and sales.
 
 
Our policy for accounting for each transaction negotiated contemporaneously is to record each element of the transaction based on the respective estimated fair values of the goods or services purchased and the goods or services sold. The judgments made in determining fair value in such arrangements impact the amount and period in which revenues, expenses and net income are recognized over the term of the contract. In determining the fair value of the respective elements, we refer to quoted market prices (where available), historical transactions or comparable cash transactions. The most frequent transactions of this type that we encounter involve funds received from our vendors which we account for in accordance with EITF We record cash consideration received from a vendor as a reduction in the price of the vendor's product unless (i) the consideration is for the reimbursement of a specific, incremental, identifiable cost incurred in which case we would record the cash consideration received as a reduction in such cost or (ii) we are providing an identifiable benefit in exchange for the consideration in which case we recognize revenue for this element.
02-16.
 
With respect to programming vendor advertising arrangements being negotiated simultaneously with the same cable network, we assess whether each piece of the arrangements is at fair value. The factors that are considered in determining the individual fair values of the programming and advertising vary from arrangement to arrangement and include:
 
Table of Contents
 
Advertising revenues associated with such arrangements were less than $1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2005, and were $9 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.
 
  Our policy for revenue recognition in instances where multiple deliverables are sold contemporaneously to the same counterparty is in accordance with EITF Issue , and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Specifically, if we enter into sales contracts for the sale of multiple products or services, then we evaluate whether we have objective fair value evidence for each deliverable in the transaction. If we have objective fair value evidence for each deliverable of the transaction, then we account for each deliverable in the transaction separately, based on the relevant revenue recognition accounting policies. However, if we are unable to determine objective fair value for one or more undelivered elements of the transaction, we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. For example, we sell cable, voice and high-speed data services to subscribers in a bundled package at a rate lower than if the subscriber purchases each product on an individual basis. Subscription revenues received from such subscribers are allocated to each product in a pro-rata manner based on the fair value of each of the respective services.
Sales of multiple products or services.
No. 00-21,
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables
Revenue Recognition.
 
  Our policy for cost recognition in instances where multiple products or services are purchased contemporaneously from the same counterparty is consistent with our policy for the sale of multiple deliverables to a customer. Specifically, if we enter into a contract for the purchase of multiple products or services, we evaluate whether we have fair value evidence for each product or service being purchased. If we have fair value evidence for each product or service being purchased, we account for each separately, based on the relevant cost recognition accounting policies. However, if we are unable to determine fair value for one or more of the purchased elements, we generally recognize the cost of the transaction on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement.
Purchases of multiple products or services.
 
This policy would also apply in instances where we settle a dispute at the same time we purchase a product or service from that same counterparty. For example, we may settle a dispute on an existing programming contract with a programming vendor at the same time that we are renegotiating a new programming contract with the same programming vendor. Because we are negotiating both the settlement of the dispute and a new programming contract, each of these elements should be accounted for at fair value. The amount allocated to the settlement of the dispute would be recognized immediately, whereas the amount allocated to the new programming contract would be accounted for prospectively, consistent with the accounting for other similar programming agreements.
 
  Property, Plant and Equipment
 
We incur expenditures associated with the construction of our cable systems. Costs associated with the construction of the cable transmission and distribution facilities and new cable service installations are capitalized. With respect to certain customer premise equipment, which includes converters and cable modems, we capitalize installation charges only upon the initial deployment of these assets. All costs incurred in subsequent disconnects and reconnects are expensed as incurred. Depreciation on these assets is provided, generally using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives.
 
We use product-specific and, in the case of customers who have multiple products installed at once, bundle-specific standard costing models to capitalize installation activities. Significant judgment is involved in the development of these costing models, including the average time required to perform an installation and the determination of the nature and amount of indirect costs to be capitalized. Additionally, the development of standard costing models for new products such as our voice services product involve more estimates than the standard costing models for established products because we have less historical data related to the installation of new products. The standard costing models are reviewed annually and adjusted prospectively, if necessary, based on comparisons to actual costs incurred.
 
We generally capitalize expenditures for tangible fixed assets having a useful life of greater than one year. Types of capitalized expenditures include: customer premise equipment, scalable infrastructure, line extensions, plant upgrades and rebuilds and support capital. For converters and modems, useful life is generally 3 to 4 years and for plant upgrades, useful life is up to 16 years. In connection with the Transactions, TW NY acquired significant
Table of Contents
amounts of property, plant and equipment, which were recorded at their estimated fair values. The remaining useful lives assigned to such assets were generally shorter than the useful lives assigned to comparable new assets to reflect the age, condition and intended use of the acquired property, plant and equipment.
 
  Programming Agreements
 
We exercise significant judgment in estimating programming expense associated with certain video programming contracts. Our policy is to record video programming costs based on our contractual agreements with programming vendors, which are generally multi-year agreements that provide for us to make payments to the programming vendors at agreed upon rates, which represent fair market value, based on the number of subscribers to which we provide the service. If a programming contract expires prior to entering into a new agreement, we are required to estimate the programming costs during the period there is no contract in place. We consider the previous contractual rates, inflation and the status of the negotiations in determining our estimates. When the programming contract terms are finalized, an adjustment to programming expense is recorded, if necessary, to reflect the terms of the new contract. We must also make estimates in the recognition of programming expense related to other items, such as the accounting for free periods, "most-favored-nation" clauses and service interruptions, as well as the allocation of consideration exchanged between the parties in multiple-element transactions.
 
Income Taxes
 
From time to time, we engage in transactions in which the tax consequences may be subject to uncertainty. Examples of such transactions include business acquisitions and disposals, issues related to consideration paid or received in connection with acquisitions, and certain financing transactions. Significant judgment is required in assessing and estimating the tax consequences of these transactions. For example, the Adelphia Acquisition was designed as a taxable acquisition. Accordingly, we have viewed a portion of our tax basis in the acquired assets resulting from the Adelphia Acquisition as incremental value above the amount of basis more generally associated with cable systems. The tax benefit of such incremental would reduce net cash tax payments by more than $300 million per year, assuming the following: (i) incremental relating to 85% of the $14.4 billion purchase price (which assumes that 15% of the fair market value of cable systems represents a typical amount of basis), (ii) straight-line amortization deductions over 15 years, (iii) sufficient taxable income to utilize the amortization deductions, and (iv) a 40% effective tax rate. The IRS or state and local taxing authorities might challenge the anticipated tax characterizations or related valuations, and any successful challenge could significantly increase our future tax payments and significantly reduce our future earnings and cash flow. Additionally, the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Tax Code. If the IRS were successful in challenging the tax-free characterization of the TWC Redemption, an additional cash liability on account of taxes of up to an estimated $900 million could be payable by us.
step-up
step-up
 
We prepare and file tax returns based on interpretation of tax laws and regulations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. In determining our tax provision for financial reporting purposes, we establish a reserve for those uncertain tax positions where it is not probable that a benefit taken on the tax return will be sustained. That is, for financial reporting purposes, we only recognize tax benefits taken on the tax return that are probable of being sustained. There is considerable judgment involved in determining whether positions taken on the tax return are probable of being sustained. We adjust our tax reserve estimates periodically because of ongoing examinations by and settlements with the various taxing authorities, as well as changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations. The consolidated tax provision of any given year includes adjustments to prior year income tax accruals that are considered appropriate. Differences between the estimated and actual amounts determined upon ultimate resolution, individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position but could possibly be material to our consolidated results of operations or cash flow of any one period.
Table of Contents
 
 
Our principal physical assets consist of operating plant and equipment, including signal receiving, encoding and decoding devices, headends and distribution systems and equipment at or near subscribers' homes for each of our cable systems. The signal receiving apparatus typically includes a tower, antenna, ancillary electronic equipment and earth stations for reception of satellite signals. Headends, consisting of electronic equipment necessary for the reception, amplification and modulation of signals, are located near the receiving devices. Our distribution system consists primarily of coaxial and fiber optic cables, lasers, routers, switches and related electronic equipment. Our cable plant and related equipment generally are attached to utility poles under pole rental agreements with local public utilities, although in some areas the distribution cable is buried in underground ducts or trenches. Customer premise equipment consists principally of set-top boxes and cable modems. The physical components of cable systems require periodic maintenance.
 
Our high-speed data backbone consists of fiber owned by us or circuits leased from affiliated and third party vendors, and related equipment. We also operate regional data centers with equipment that is used to provide services, such as news and web services to our high-speed data subscribers and to provide services to our Digital Phone customers. In addition, we maintain a network operations center with equipment necessary to monitor and manage the status of our high-speed data network.
e-mail,
 
As of September 30, 2006, the largest property we owned was an approximately 318,500 square foot building housing one of our divisional headquarters, a call center and a warehouse in Columbia, SC, of which approximately 50% is leased to a third party tenant, and we leased and owned other real property housing national operations centers and regional data centers used in our high-speed data services business in Herndon, VA; Raleigh, NC; Tampa, FL; Syracuse, NY; Austin, TX; Kansas City, MO; Orange County, CA; New York, NY; and Columbus, OH. As of September 30, 2006, we also leased and owned locations for our corporate offices in Stamford, CT and Charlotte, NC as well as numerous business offices, warehouses and properties housing divisional operations throughout the country. Our signal reception sites, primarily antenna towers and headends, and microwave facilities are located on owned and leased parcels of land, and we own or lease space on the towers on which certain of our equipment is located. We own most of our service vehicles.
 
We believe that our properties, both owned and leased, taken as a whole, are in good operating condition and are suitable and adequate for our business operations. The nature of the facilities and properties that we acquired as a result of the Transactions is substantially similar to those used in our existing business.
Table of Contents
 
 
Beneficial Ownership of Our Common Stock
 
The following table sets forth information as of December 15, 2006 as to the number of shares of our common stock beneficially owned by each person known to us to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of our common stock. As of December 15, 2006, none of our executive officers or directors beneficially owned any shares of our common stock.
 
 
 
 
ACC
 
In connection with the Adelphia Acquisition, ACC received 149,765,147 shares of our Class A common stock and an additional 6,148,283 shares were paid into escrow, together representing 17.3% of our outstanding Class A common stock.
 
Beneficial Ownership of Time Warner Common Stock
 
The following table sets forth information as of October 31, 2006 as to the number of shares of Time Warner common stock beneficially owned by:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Our Directors and Executive Officers
 
The following table sets forth the name of each of our directors and executive officers, the office held by such director or officer and the age of such director or officer as of November 15, 2006. Unless otherwise noted, each of the executive officers named below assumed his or her position with us at the time of the TWE Restructuring, which took place in March 2003 and, prior to that time, each held the same position within the Time Warner Cable division of TWE.
 
 
Set forth below are the principal positions held during at least the last five years by each of the directors and executive officers named above:
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
Currently, our board of directors consists of ten members, five of whom are independent as required pursuant to our by-laws. See "Corporate Governance" below. Our board has identified Ms. Black and Messrs. Castro, Chang, Copeland and Nicholas as independent directors as independence is defined in Rule 303A.02 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual and as defined by Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act. Additionally, each of these directors meets the categorical standards for independence established by our board, as set forth in our Corporate Governance Policy. Our board has determined that the employment of Mr. Nicholas' stepson by Time Inc., a subsidiary of Time Warner, does not affect Mr. Nicholas' independence. A copy of our Corporate Governance Policy will be available on our website upon the listing of our Class A common stock on the NYSE.
 
Terms of Executive Officers and Directors
 
Each director serves for a term of one year. Directors hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified. Our executive officers are appointed by the board of directors and serve at the discretion of the board.
 
Corporate Governance
 
Controlled Company
 
We expect that our Class A common stock will begin trading on the NYSE in late February or early March 2007. For purposes of the NYSE rules, we expect to be a "controlled company." "Controlled companies" under the NYSE rules are companies of which more than 50 percent of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company. A subsidiary of Time Warner currently holds approximately 84.0% of our common stock and 90.6% of the voting power and Time Warner is able to elect our entire board of directors. Accordingly, we are exempt from certain NYSE governance requirements provided in the NYSE rules. Specifically, as a controlled company under NYSE rules, we are not required to, and will not, have (1) a majority of independent directors, (2) a nominating/governance committee composed entirely of independent directors or (3) a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors.
 
Board of Directors
 
Holders of our Class A common stock vote, as a separate class, with respect to the election of our Class A directors, and holders of our Class B common stock vote, as a separate class, with respect to the election of our Class B directors. Under our restated certificate of incorporation, the Class A directors must represent not less than one-sixth and not more than one-fifth of our directors, and the Class B directors must represent not less than four-
Table of Contents
fifths of our directors. As a result of its shareholdings, Time Warner has the ability to cause the election of all Class A directors and Class B directors, subject to certain restrictions on the identity of these directors discussed below.
 
Under the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation at least 50% of our board of directors must be independent directors. As a condition to the consummation of the Adelphia Acquisition, we agreed not to amend this charter provision prior to August 1, 2009 (three years following the Adelphia Closing) without, among other things, the consent of the holders of a majority of the shares of Class A common stock other than Time Warner and its affiliates.
 
Board Committees
 
Our board of directors has three principal standing committees, an audit committee, a compensation committee and a nominating and governance committee.
 
The members of the audit committee are currently James Copeland, Jr., who serves as the Chair, David Chang and N.J. Nicholas, Jr. Among other things, the audit committee complies with all NYSE and legal requirements and consists entirely of independent directors. The audit committee:
Audit Committee.  
 
 
Our board has determined that each member of our audit committee qualifies as an audit committee financial expert under the rules of the SEC implementing section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and meets the independence and experience requirements of the NYSE and the federal securities laws.
 
The members of our compensation committee are Michael Lynne, who serves as the Chair, Carole Black, Thomas Castro, Peter Haje and Don Logan. The compensation committee has oversight over our overall compensation structure and benefit plans. The compensation committee has a consisting of two independent directors, Carole Black and Thomas Castro, to which it may delegate executive compensation matters. This
Compensation Committee.  
sub-committee
sub-committee:
 
 
The members of our nominating and governance committee are N.J. Nicholas, Jr., who serves as the Chair, David Chang, Peter Haje, Don Logan and Wayne Pace. The nominating and governance committee is responsible for assisting the board in relation to:
Nominating and Governance Committee.  
 
Table of Contents
 
Code of Ethics
 
We have adopted a Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers. Amendments to this Code of Ethics or any grant of a waiver from a provision of this Code of Ethics requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules will be disclosed on our website. We have also adopted a code of business conduct and ethics for our employees that conforms to the requirements of the NYSE listing rules.
 
Copies of our audit, compensation and nominating and governance committee charters, our Code of Ethics for our senior executives and senior financial officers and our code of business conduct and ethics are available on our website, at www.timewarnercable.com. The information on our website is not part of this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
 
 
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
 
Oversight and Authority for Executive Compensation
 
We developed our compensation philosophy for 2006 before we became a separately-traded public company and before we completed the Transactions. Some of our compensation philosophy, structure and practices are derived from our relationship with Time Warner, our corporate parent. We obtained certain efficiencies by making use of the Time Warner compensation logistics and infrastructure that are available to us. For example, as is explained below, our executives have participated in the equity award programs of Time Warner. The compensation paid to our executive officers also reflects the terms of their employment agreements that were developed before we became a public company.
 
Before July 31, 2006, our compensation committee was composed of all of the members of our board of directors (in such capacity, the "Old Compensation Committee"), which at that time consisted of six members. Our board of directors expanded from six members to ten on July 31, 2006 when the Transactions closed, and a new separate five-member compensation committee was appointed (the "New Compensation Committee"). Our New Compensation Committee had its first meeting in December 2006.
 
At all times, our compensation committee has been responsible for reviewing and/or approving all elements of our executive compensation programs. These include:
 
 
For 2006, members of our management, including Glenn Britt, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Marcus, our Senior Executive Vice President, and Tomas Mathews, our Senior Vice President, Human Resources, evaluated each of the compensation elements described above. They reviewed base salaries, target award levels and performance measures in the incentive plans, and the structure of each compensation program, as discussed in this Compensation Discussion and Analysis. They also consulted with Time Warner executive compensation personnel. Our management then made recommendations to the Old Compensation Committee, which reviewed and approved each compensation element for each of the named executive officers for 2006. Our New Compensation Committee will determine final 2006 annual cash bonuses in early 2007. A similar process has been followed for establishing certain elements of the compensation package for each named executive officer for 2007, except that the recommendations of management were reviewed and approved by the New Compensation Committee. We expect that the remaining elements of 2007 compensation will be determined in a similar fashion.
 
2006 Compensation Philosophy
 
We seek to use a competitive mix of base salary and incentive compensation that will attract, retain, motivate and reward our executive officers for achievement of company and personal performance goals. Our philosophy is informed by the following key principles:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
We also enter into employment agreements with our named executive officers to foster retention, to be competitive and to protect our business (through the use of restrictive covenants).
 
As a result of awards made prior to 2007, our named executive officers continue to participate in the Time Warner equity program. Starting in 2007, we expect that our executives will receive awards based on our Class A common stock and thereafter will not continue to receive awards under Time Warner's equity plans. Our employees who have outstanding equity awards under the Time Warner equity plans will retain any rights under those awards pursuant to their terms.
 
Review of Compensation Practices
 
To make sure our compensation practices for 2006 matched our compensation philosophy, we began to review our compensation programs and practices in 2005. We continued our review through 2006. We determined that the compensation programs in place were still effective and appropriate for 2006.
 
Application of Compensation Philosophy
 
  We compared our named executive officers' current compensation levels to competitive market norms using survey market data that represented national companies from general industry, telecommunications and media industries, with revenues which were generally comparable to ours, when we made our 2006 compensation recommendations to our Old Compensation Committee. Each named executive officer's position was compared to other executives in positions of comparable scope and responsibility.
Competitive Compensation Levels.
 
Additionally, compensation levels for Glenn Britt, our Chief Executive Officer, Landel Hobbs, our Chief Operating Officer, and John Martin, our Chief Financial Officer, were compared to data published in proxy statements or other publicly available sources for executives in similarly situated positions in cable companies of varying sizes, including Comcast, Cox Communications, Inc., Cablevision Systems Corp., Charter Communications, Inc. and Adelphia. We believe that these cable companies represented some of our major competitors for executive talent in 2006. Where available, we supplemented the compensation review with internal compensation data for comparable positions within Time Warner. We refer to the survey companies, proxy companies and internal Time Warner positions used to benchmark 2006 compensation levels for our named executive officers as the "2006 Peer Group."
 
We began our review of each named executive officer's compensation package with a review of the relevant executive's employment agreement. The employment agreements provide a minimum annual salary and a target annual discretionary bonus, stated as a percentage of annual salary. Our 2006 compensation recommendations to our Old Compensation Committee also took into account the importance of each named executive officer's position in our company, the importance of retaining the executive in his role and his tenure in the role. In consideration of these factors, we recommended target levels of compensation, consisting of base salary, annual cash bonus and long-term incentives, that would place the pay of each named executive officer between the median and the 75 percentile of the 2006 Peer Group. The total cash compensation delivered depends on the ultimate awards under our cash-based incentive plans, which depend on achievement of certain financial performance goals, discussed in detail below, and an evaluation of the executive's individual performance.
th
 
  Our 2006 compensation program incorporated the following elements, which together were intended to encourage executives to focus on both our short-term and long-term strategic objectives:
Compensation Elements.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
To support our "pay for performance" compensation objective, a portion of compensation paid was variable and dependent upon the achievement of our and the relevant executive's performance goals. The higher the level of strategic impact on organizational success an executive has, the larger the portion of the overall compensation package that is delivered through variable compensation related to our performance. For example, Mr. Britt's target compensation is based approximately 90% on variable, performance- equity-based compensation and 10% on base salary. Other named executive officers' target compensation is based on approximately variable, performance- equity-based compensation.
and/or
75-80%
and/or
 
We believe the split between short- and long-term performance-based 2006 compensation for our named executive officers, which was approximately even, but with slightly more compensation being delivered through long-term incentives, is consistent with the 2006 Peer Group.
 
  We generally conduct reviews of base salaries annually, and we repeat the review when a named executive officer is promoted or his responsibilities change. During such a review we generally compare each named executive officer's roles and responsibilities with the roles and responsibilities of his counterparts from other comparable companies, which for 2006 included the 2006 Peer Group. We consider each named executive officer's performance, the importance of the executive officer's position within our company, the importance of keeping the executive officer in his role and his tenure in the role. In general, the higher the strategic impact an executive officer has on our organizational success, the less we rely on base salary for his compensation.
2006 Base Salary.
 
We determined that Mr. Britt's base salary for 2006 was within the ranges of the 2006 Peer Group; therefore, we did not consider a salary increase for Mr. Britt for 2006. Messrs. Hobbs, Martin and Marcus were hired or promoted into their current positions in August 2005. We considered data for comparable positions when we set their salaries at that time, so we did not think a base salary adjustment was needed for 2006. However, when we promoted Mr. Hobbs to Chief Operating Officer, we agreed to undertake a further review of his compensation during 2006. We reviewed Mr. Hobbs' base salary in mid-2006 against the 2007 Peer Group (as described in "Looking Forward"), his performance as our Chief Operating Officer and in light of his responsibility for a larger number of cable systems as a result of the Transactions. Based on this review, the New Compensation Committee approved a salary increase for Mr. Hobbs to $850,000, effective as of August 1, 2006.
 
Mr. LaJoie's base salary was increased from $400,600 to $420,000 effective January 1, 2006 to reflect an annual performance merit increase. We reviewed Mr. LaJoie's base salary against the 2006 Peer Group later in 2006 and, based on that review, Mr. LaJoie's base salary was increased from $420,600 to $450,000 effective March 1, 2006.
 
  The Time Warner Cable Incentive Plan ("TWCIP") is a short-term annual cash incentive plan designed to motivate executives to help us meet and exceed our annual growth goals by giving them a chance to share in our financial success. The TWCIP also rewards executives for achieving specified individual and non-financial short-term goals. Each TWCIP participant is eligible to receive a target bonus stated as a percentage of base salary. Upon review of the 2006 Peer Group we determined that target bonus recommendations were in line with our compensation philosophy. For every level in our company, there is a TWCIP target bonus level. With increasing levels of responsibility, a higher percentage of the executive's total compensation comes from performance-based bonuses.
2006 Short-Term Incentives.
 
Mr. Britt's previous employment contract expired in August 2006. In connection with the negotiation of Mr. Britt's new employment agreement, we compared Mr. Britt's annual target bonus with publicly available data that had been assembled for these purposes, and we considered his increased responsibilities following the closing of the Transactions and our anticipated change to a public company. Our review and evaluation led to increasing Mr. Britt's target bonus from $3,750,000 to $5,000,000 effective August 1, 2006. When we reviewed Mr. Hobbs' employment agreement as discussed above, we also compared Mr. Hobbs' annual target bonus with the 2007 Peer Group, and considered his responsibility for a larger number of cable systems following the closing of the Transactions. Our review and evaluation led to increasing Mr. Hobbs' target bonus from 175% to 200% of base
Table of Contents
salary effective August 1, 2006. We also compared Mr. LaJoie's target bonus to the 2006 Peer Group. Our review and evaluation led to increasing his target bonus from 80% to 100% of base salary, effective March 1, 2006.
 
The TWCIP established for 2006 was similar in structure to short-term incentive programs implemented by other Time Warner companies.
 
For 2006, the TWCIP performance goals for the named executive officers were weighted 70% on company-wide financial goals and 30% on individual goals. The financial goalsfollowing their amendment in July 2006, as discussed belowwere further weighted 70% based on OIBDA (as defined in this Current Report on and 30% based on OIBDA less capital expenditures (other than capitalized transaction costs related to the Transactions). Management and the Old Compensation Committee believed that OIBDA is an important indicator of the operational strength and performance of our business, including our ability to provide cash flows to service debt and fund capital expenditures. This makes it a useful performance criterion. OIBDA less capital expenditures was chosen as the other financial measure because it is a measure of free cash flow (which is a common financial tool to assess a cable company's ability to service debt).
Form 8-K),
 
Mr. Britt's 2006 individual performance goals were as follows:
 
 
Mr. Britt established and approved the individual measurable goals for each of the other named executive officers. The goals for each of our named executive officers, other than Mr. Britt, include supporting Mr. Britt in achieving his goals, taking into account each named executive officer's particular role and responsibilities.
 
At the time that the 2006 TWCIP was established, our Old Compensation Committee recognized that it was difficult to predict when the Transactions would ultimately close, and that the timing of the closing could significantly affect our financial results. Under the terms of the TWCIP, any significant change in our business that impacts our financial results, such as acquisitions or divestitures, should be reviewed to determine whether and to what extent the TWCIP targets should be modified. In light of this, the Old Compensation Committee did not initially establish the specific financial goals that would be used to determine payments under the 2006 TWCIP. However, it did, early in 2006, determine that the 2006 TWCIP would utilize a 70/30 weighting as between financial and individual goals discussed above. At that time, it also intended that the financial component would be further weighted 70% based on OIBDA and 30% based on Free Cash Flow (as defined in this Current Report on In July 2006, the Old Compensation Committee acted to establish specific 2006 TWCIP financial goals, which were intended to reflect to the greatest extent possible the impact of the closing of the Transactions, as well as the then-anticipated dissolution of TKCCP. In adopting the goals, our Old Compensation Committee elected to replace the Free Cash Flow financial measure originally contemplated with OIBDA less capital expenditures. Our Old Compensation Committee felt it would be difficult to predictably gauge Free Cash Flow for 2006 because of anticipated working capital fluctuations arising as a result of the closing of the Transactions and our integration of the Acquired Systems into our existing operations, as well as the pending dissolution of TKCCP. As discussed above, OIBDA less capital expenditures was considered a more reliable financial measure under the circumstances. However, in light of the significant changes in our operational environment during the year, it will still be difficult to accurately assess management's performance under this revised measure. The New Compensation Committee
Form 8-K).
Table of Contents
therefore will exercise discretion in determining final 2006 TWCIP payouts to ensure, to the extent possible, that the payments reflect the actual degree of difficulty required to achieve the financial goals that were established.
 
When determining bonuses for named executive officers for 2006 in January and February 2007, the New Compensation Committee will evaluate our performance against our financial goals. The New Compensation Committee will also determine how well Mr. Britt performed against his individual goals and, based on a recommendation from Mr. Britt, how well our other named executive officers performed against their individual goals. The resulting percentage of target bonus to be awarded can range from 0% to 150%, subject to any contractual limits. There is no payout for performance below the established minimum threshold under the TWCIP.
 
The following chart shows the estimated target payout ranges for 2006 for each named executive officer under the TWCIP:
 
 
 
 
  Our long-term incentive compensation ("LTI") program is designed to retain and motivate employees to meet and exceed our long-term growth goals as a balance to the short-term incentive plan. The 2006 LTI was similar in structure to long-term incentive programs implemented by other Time Warner companies.
2006 Long-Term Incentives.
 
For 2006, the LTI program was designed to deliver its value using a combination of 55% in stock-based awards and 45% in cash awards. The mix was determined in a manner designed to deliver a target amount of value. We used Time Warner common stock for our stock-based awards since we did not have any publicly traded stock at the time. Because the performance of Time Warner common stock relates to other Time Warner businesses in addition to ours, we used a long-term performance-based cash award ("LTIP") to increase the extent to which our named executive officers' long-term compensation ties directly to our financial results. We are currently evaluating the appropriate mix of equity-based and cash-based performance awards to use when we begin to grant equity awards based on our own stock.
 
We established LTI target awards for each named executive officer based on a competitive award level as compared against executives in comparable positions in the 2006 Peer Group. We based the target levels of the long-term awards on an evaluation of the named executive officer's performance, the importance of his position within our organization, the importance of retaining the executive in his role, his tenure in the role and his established target award level.
 
  We believe that the award of stock options and restricted stock units provides retention value and an opportunity to align the interests of our executives with the interests of our stockholders. Time Warner stock options and restricted stock units granted in 2006 to our named executive officers other than our Chief Executive Officer were based in part on the recommendations of our management to the compensation committee of Time Warner's board of directors (the "Time Warner compensation committee"). The 2006 stock-based awards, including the mix between stock options and restricted stock units, was similar in structure to 2006
2006 Stock-Based Awards.
Table of Contents
stock programs utilized by other Time Warner companies. Upon exercise of Time Warner stock options, we are obligated to reimburse Time Warner for the excess of the market price of the Time Warner common stock over the option exercise price. See Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, included elsewhere in this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
For 2006, the stock-based grants reflected a mix between time-based stock options and time-based restricted stock units of approximately 70% and 30%, respectively. Stock options are designed to reward executives for stock price growth and company performance as well as to align executives' interests with stockholders. Restricted stock units are designed to enhance executive retention even when the stock value is fluctuating, reward stock price growth and encourage executive stock ownership.
 
The Time Warner compensation committee approved and granted stock-based awards to our named executive officers in 2006. Time Warner stock-based awards can be granted only by Time Warner. The Time Warner compensation committee approved stock-based grants to Messrs. Britt and Hobbs with input from Time Warner senior management and our management in the case of Mr. Hobbs. Separately, the Time Warner compensation committee awarded stock-based grants within Time Warner's guidelines to our other named executive officers based on the recommendations of our management, in light of the relevant named executive officer's individual performance, as well as the established target award level for each named executive officer. All of these stock-based awards were also presented to our Old Compensation Committee for review as part of its approval of 2006 compensation. Mr. Britt and the other named executive officers were awarded both stock options and restricted stock units. Pursuant to Time Warner's long-standing practice, the stock options were granted with an exercise price equal to the average of the high and low sales prices of Time Warner's common stock on the grant date. The restricted stock units awarded by Time Warner to our executive officers in March 2006 vest in two equal installments on the third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant, and the stock options awarded at the same time vest in four equal installments on each of the first four anniversaries of the date of grant. We believe that the multi-year vesting schedule encourages executive retention and emphasizes a longer-term perspective.
 
  Performance goals under the LTIP are based on cumulative OIBDA for the years 2006 to 2008 relative to established OIBDA targets as discussed below. At the end of the three-year performance period, performance against the established OIBDA objectives will be measured. Actual achievement versus the established objectives will determine individual awards. We selected OIBDA as a performance measure in the LTIP for the same reasons discussed under the short-term incentive plan above.
2006 Long-Term Cash Awards.
2006-2008
 
Our Old Compensation Committee initially approved dollar amounts payable under the LTIP for the performance period if targets were met, intending to utilize a three-year cumulative OIBDA performance range against our then-current four year budget and long-range financial plan. Under the terms of the LTIP, any change in our business that impacts our financial results, such as acquisitions or divestitures, are to be reviewed to determine whether and to what extent the LTIP performance ranges should be modified. In December 2006, our New Compensation Committee modified the LTIP performance goal for the performance period and adopted the same OIBDA measure used in the TWCIP for the 2006 portion of the three-year performance period. The New Compensation Committee also established OIBDA goals for 2007 and 2008 based on our then current proposed budget and long-range financial plan. Our New Compensation Committee also indicated it would review final payouts carefully in light of the significant changes in our operational environment.
2006-2008
2006-2008
 
Actual awards can range from 0% to 200% of the LTIP target based on our actual performance, although no payout will be made for performance below the established minimum threshold under the LTIP. Payouts under the LTIP will be made during the first quarter of the year following the completion of the three-year performance period. For example, payouts from the 2006-2008 LTIP will occur during the first quarter of 2009.
 
Total Compensation Review
 
We believe that the total compensation to be delivered for 2006, including base salary and short-term and long-term incentives, appropriately reflects market competitive levels, individual and company performance, the importance of each individual's position within our company, the importance of retaining the executive in his role and his tenure in the role.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to our compensation philosophy and practices, we targeted total direct 2006 compensation to executives to be between the 50 and 75 percentiles of the 2006 Peer Group.
th
th
 
Mr. Britt's 2006 target total direct compensation (including pro-rated adjustments due to an August increase in his short-term bonus target) is just slightly higher than the 50 percentile when compared to the survey market data, and below the average when compared to the 2006 proxy data that had been assembled (the benchmark used by Time Warner when reviewing Mr. Britt's compensation). Mr. Martin's 2006 target total direct compensation is slightly higher than the 50 percentile when compared to the survey market data and slightly below the average of the 2006 proxy data that had been assembled. Mr. Hobbs' 2006 target total direct compensation (including pro-rated adjustments due to an August increase in base salary and short-term bonus target) is below the 50 percentile when compared to the survey market data and below the 50 percentile when compared to the 2007 Peer Group (the benchmark used by Time Warner when reviewing Mr. Hobbs' compensation). Mr. Marcus' and Mr. LaJoie's 2006 target total direct compensation are both slightly higher than the 50th percentile when compared to survey market data. Neither Mr. Marcus' nor Mr. LaJoie's compensation was compared to a public peer group at the time that 2006 compensation was initially reviewed.
th
th
th
th
 
The foregoing is based on target payouts under the 2006 incentive programs. Actual market positioning for each of the executives in 2006 will depend on actual payments under such programs.
 
Looking Forward
 
We have presented recommendations to our New Compensation Committee for 2007 salaries, target bonus awards and target long-term incentive awards for each of our named executive officers. Our New Compensation Committee has reviewed and approved such recommendations.
 
Our management and our New Compensation Committee are currently evaluating the structure of our short-term and long-term incentive programs for 2007. As a newly-public company, we expect that our long-term compensation will consist largely of grants based on our Class A common stock, including stock options and restricted stock units. During 2006, we engaged Mercer Consulting to help us evaluate our executive compensation program for 2007, including measuring our executive compensation program against various benchmarks and advising us on our compensation mix and the structure of our bonus programs. Mercer also met with our New Compensation Committee in connection with reviewing 2007 salaries and bonus targets for our executive officers and provided insights on various executive compensation trends.
 
During 2006, we established a more refined peer group of 20 public cable, communications and entertainment companies with publicly available data that we believe are similar in size and focus to us will better reflect our competitors for talent in the coming years. We call this group our "2007 Peer Group." The companies that will be in our 2007 Peer Group include: Verizon, AT&T, Sprint, The Walt Disney Company, News Corporation, Comcast, BellSouth, Inc., Bell Canada Enterprises, CBS Corporation, QWEST Communications International, Inc., DIRECTV Group, Inc., Viacom Inc., ALLTEL Corporation, Echostar Communications Corporation, Telus Corporation, Clear Channel Communications, Inc., Rogers Communications Inc., Charter Communications Inc., Cablevision Systems Corporation and Liberty Global Inc. We believe the 2007 compensation approved by the New Compensation Committee for our named executive officers is consistent with our compensation philosophy which is informed in part by the practices of the 2007 Peer Group.
and/or
 
Perquisites
 
As described below, we provide personal benefits, such as reimbursement for financial services, from time to time to our named executive officers under their employment agreements when we determine such personal benefits are a useful part of a competitive compensation package. Mr. Britt was also provided with a car allowance in 2006. Additionally, we own aircraft jointly with Time Warner and other Time Warner companies. Use of corporate aircraft for business and personal travel is governed by a policy established by Time Warner. Under the policy, Mr. Britt is authorized to use the corporate aircraft for domestic business travel and for personal use when there is available space on a flight scheduled for a business purpose or in the event of a medical or family emergency. Other executives require various approvals for use of the corporate aircraft.
Table of Contents
Employment Agreements
 
Consistent with our goal of attracting and retaining executives in a competitive environment, we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Britt and the other named executive officers. The employment agreements with Messrs. Britt, Martin and Marcus were reviewed and approved by our Old Compensation Committee. The employment agreement for each named executive officer is described in detail in this Current Report on under "Employment Agreements" and "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control."
Form 8-K
 
Deferred Compensation
 
Before 2003, we maintained a nonqualified deferred compensation plan that generally permitted employees whose annual cash compensation exceeded a designated threshold to defer receipt of all or a portion of their annual bonus until a specified future date. Since March 2003, deferrals may no longer be made but amounts previously credited under the deferred compensation plan continue to track crediting rate elections made by the employee from an array of third-party investment vehicles offered under our savings plan. See "Nonqualified Deferred Compensation."
 
Tax Deductibility of Compensation
 
Section 162(m) of the Tax Code generally disallows a tax deduction to public corporations for compensation in excess of $1,000,000 in any one year with respect to each of its five most highly paid executive officers with the exception of compensation that qualifies as performance-based compensation. Because we were not a public company in 2006, section 162(m) did not apply to us with respect to compensation deductible for 2006. The New Compensation Committee will consider section 162(m) implications in making compensation recommendations and in designing compensation programs for our executives as a public company. However, the New Compensation Committee reserves the right to pay compensation that is not deductible if it determines that to be in our best interest and the best interests of our stockholders.
 
Executive Compensation Summary Table
 
The following table presents information concerning total compensation paid to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and each of our three other most highly compensated executive officers who served in such capacities on December 31, 2006 (collectively, the "named executive officers").
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Grants of Plan-Based Awards in 2006
 
The following table presents information with respect to each award in 2006 to each named executive officer of plan-based compensation, including annual cash awards under the TWCIP, long-term cash awards under our LTIP and awards of stock options to purchase Time Warner Common Stock and Time Warner restricted stock units granted by Time Warner under the Time Warner Inc. 2003 Stock Incentive Plan.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Employment Agreements
 
The following is a description of the material terms of the compensation provided to our named executive officers during the term of their employment pursuant to employment agreements between us or TWE, and each executive. See "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control" for a description of the payments and benefits that would be provided to our named executive officers in connection with a termination of their employment or a change in control of us.
 
  We entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Britt, effective as of August 1, 2006, which provides that Mr. Britt will serve as our Chief Executive Officer through December 31, 2009, subject to earlier termination as provided in the agreement. Mr. Britt's agreement is automatically extended for consecutive one-month periods, unless terminated by either party upon 60 days' notice, and terminates automatically on the date Mr. Britt becomes eligible for normal retirement at age 65. The agreement provides Mr. Britt with a minimum annual base salary of $1 million and an annual discretionary target bonus of $5 million, which will vary subject to Mr. Britt's and our performance from a minimum of $0 up to a maximum of $6,675,000. In addition, the agreement provides that, beginning in 2007, for each year of the agreement, we will provide Mr. Britt with long-term incentive compensation with a target value of approximately $6,000,000 (based on a valuation method established by us), which may be in the form of stock options, restricted stock units, other equity-based awards, cash or other components, or any combination of such forms, as may be determined by our board of directors or, if delegated by the board, the compensation committee, in its sole discretion. Mr. Britt participates in the benefit plans and programs available to our other senior executive officers, including $50,000 of group life insurance. Mr. Britt also receives an annual payment equal to two times the premium cost of $4 million of life insurance as determined under our GUL insurance program.
Glenn A. Britt.
 
  We entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Martin, effective as of August 8, 2005, which provides that Mr. Martin will serve as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer through August 8, 2008, subject to earlier termination as provided in the agreement. Mr. Martin's agreement is automatically extended for consecutive one-month periods, unless terminated by Mr. Martin upon 60 days' written notice or by us upon written notice specifying the effective date of such termination. The agreement provides Mr. Martin with a minimum annual base salary of $650,000, an annual discretionary target bonus of 125% of his base salary, subject to Mr. Martin's and our performance, a one-time grant of options to purchase 30,000 shares of Time Warner Common Stock, a discretionary long-term incentive compensation award for 2006 with a target value of $1,300,000 subject to Mr. Martin's and our performance, and participation in our benefit plans and programs, including life insurance.
John K. Martin.
 
  We entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Hobbs, effective as of August 1, 2005, which provides that Mr. Hobbs will serve as our Chief Operating Officer through July 31, 2008, subject to earlier termination as provided in the agreement. Mr. Hobbs' agreement is automatically extended for consecutive one-month periods, unless terminated by Mr. Hobbs upon 60 days' written notice or by us upon written notice specifying the effective date of such termination. The agreement provides Mr. Hobbs with a minimum annual base salary of $700,000, an annual discretionary target bonus of 175% of his base salary, subject to Mr. Hobbs' and our performance, eligibility for annual grants of stock options, awards under our long-term incentive plan and participation in our benefit plans and programs, including life insurance.
Landel C. Hobbs.
Table of Contents
  We entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Marcus, effective as of August 15, 2005, which provides that Mr. Marcus will serve as our Senior Executive Vice President through August 15, 2008, subject to earlier termination as provided in the agreement. Mr. Marcus' agreement is automatically extended for consecutive one-month periods, unless terminated by Mr. Marcus upon 60 days' written notice or by us upon written notice specifying the effective date of such termination. The agreement provides Mr. Marcus with a minimum annual base salary of $650,000, an annual discretionary target bonus of 125% of his base salary, subject to Mr. Marcus' and our performance, a one-time grant of options to purchase 25,000 shares of Time Warner Common Stock, a discretionary annual equity and other long-term incentive compensation award with a minimum target value of $1,300,000, subject to Mr. Marcus' and our performance, and participation in our benefit plans and programs, including $50,000 of group life insurance. Mr. Marcus also receives an annual payment equal to two times the premium cost of $2 million of life insurance as determined under our GUL insurance program.
Robert D. Marcus.
 
  Mr. LaJoie's employment agreement was renewed and amended, effective as of January 1, 2006, and provides that Mr. LaJoie will serve as our Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer through December 31, 2008, subject to earlier termination as provided in the agreement. Our failure upon the expiration of the agreement to offer Mr. LaJoie a renewal agreement with terms substantially similar to those of his current agreement is considered a termination without cause. The agreement provides for a minimum annual base salary of $420,600 and an annual discretionary target bonus of 80% of his base salary, subject to Mr. LaJoie's and our performance, and participation in our benefit plans.
Michael LaJoie.
 
Outstanding Equity Awards at December 31, 2006
 
The following table provides information about each of the outstanding awards of options to purchase Time Warner Common Stock and the aggregate Time Warner restricted stock and restricted stock units held by each named executive officer as of December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, none of the named executive officers held equity awards based on our securities or performance-based awards under any equity incentive plan of either ours or Time Warner.
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
 
 
Option Exercises and Stock Vesting in 2006
 
The following table sets forth as to each of the named executive officers information on exercises of Time Warner stock options and the vesting of restricted stock during 2006, including: (i) the number of shares of Time Warner Common Stock underlying options exercised during 2006; (ii) the aggregate dollar value realized upon exercise of such options; (iii) the number of shares of Time Warner Common Stock received from the vesting of awards of Time Warner restricted stock during 2006; and (iv) the dollar value realized upon such vesting (based on the stock price of Time Warner Common Stock on February 14, 2006, the vesting date). No Time Warner restricted stock units vested during 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
Retirement Benefits
 
Our Pension Plans
 
Each of the named executive officers currently participates in the Time Warner Cable Pension Plan, a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan, and the Time Warner Cable Excess Benefit Pension Plan (the "Excess Benefit Plan"), a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan (collectively, the "TWC Pension Plans"), which are sponsored by us. Mr. Britt was a participant in pension plans sponsored by Time Warner until March 31, 2003, when he commenced participation in the Time Warner Cable Pension Plan. Each of Messrs. Martin, Hobbs, Marcus and LaJoie ceased participation in the TW Pension Plans (as defined below) on August 7, 2005, October 15, 2001, August 14, 2005 and July 31, 1995, respectively, when their respective participation in the Time Warner Cable Pension Plan commenced.
Table of Contents
The Excess Benefit Plan is designed to provide supplemental payments to highly compensated employees in an amount equal to the difference between the benefits payable to an employee under the tax-qualified Time Warner Cable Pension Plan and the amount the employee would have received under that plan if the limitations under the tax laws relating to the amount of benefit that may be paid and compensation that may be taken into account in calculating a pension payment were not in effect. In determining the amount of excess benefit pension payment, the Excess Benefit Plan takes into account compensation earned up to $350,000 per year (including any deferred bonus). The pension benefit under the Excess Benefit Plan is payable under the same options as are available under the Time Warner Cable Pension Plan.
 
Benefit payments are calculated using the highest consecutive five-year average annual compensation, which is referred to as "average compensation." Compensation covered by the TWC Pension Plans takes into account salary, bonus, some elective deferrals and other compensation paid, but excludes the payment of deferred or long-term incentive compensation and severance paid in a lump sum. The annual pension payment under the terms of the TWC Pension Plans, if the employee is vested, and if paid as a single life annuity, commencing at age 65, is an amount equal to the sum of:
 
 
In addition, in determining the benefits under the TWC Pension Plans, special rules apply to various participants who were previously participants in plans that have been merged into the TWC Pension Plans and of various participants in the TWC Pension Plans prior to January 1, 1994. Reduced benefits are available before age 65 and in other optional forms of benefits payouts. Amounts calculated under the pension formula that exceed tax code limits are payable under the Excess Benefit Plan.
 
For vesting purposes under the TWC Pension Plans, each of Messrs. Britt, Martin, Marcus and LaJoie is credited with service under the TW Pension Plans and is therefore fully vested. Mr. Hobbs is also fully vested in his benefits under the TWC Pension Plans, based on past service with TWE and its affiliates.
 
Time Warner Pension Plans
 
The Time Warner Employees' Pension Plan, as amended (the "Old TW Pension Plan"), which provides benefits to eligible employees of Time Warner and certain of its subsidiaries, was amended effective as of January 1, 2000, as described below, and was renamed (the "Amended TW Pension Plan" and, together with the Old TW Pension Plan, the "TW Pension Plans"). Messrs. Britt, Martin, Marcus and LaJoie have ceased to be active participants in the TW Pension Plans described below and commenced participation in the TWC Pension Plans described above. Each of them is entitled to benefits under the TW Pension Plans in addition to the TWC Pension Plans.
 
Under the Amended TW Pension Plan, a participant accrues benefits equal to the sum of 1.25% of a participant's average annual compensation (defined as the highest average annual compensation for any five consecutive full calendar years of employment, which includes regular salary, overtime and shift differential payments, and non-deferred bonuses paid according to a regular program) not in excess of his covered compensation up to the applicable average Social Security wage base and 1.67% of his average annual compensation in excess of such covered compensation multiplied by his years of benefit service (not in excess of 30). Compensation for purposes of calculating average annual compensation under the TW Pension Plans is limited to $200,000 per year for 1988 through 1993, $150,000 per year for 1994 through 2001 and $200,000 per year for 2002 and thereafter
Table of Contents
(each subject to adjustments provided in the Tax Code). Eligible employees become vested in all benefits under the TW Pension Plans on the earlier of five years of service or certain other events.
 
Under the Old TW Pension Plan, a participant accrues benefits on the basis of 1.67% of the average annual compensation (defined as the highest average annual compensation for any five consecutive full and partial calendar years of employment, which includes regular salary, overtime and shift differential payments, and non-deferred bonuses paid according to a regular program) for each year of service up to 30 years and 0.50% for each year of service over 30. Annual pension benefits under the Old TW Pension Plan are reduced by a Social Security offset determined by a formula that takes into account benefit service of up to 35 years, covered compensation up to the average Social Security wage base and a disparity factor based on the age at which Social Security benefits are payable (the "Social Security Offset"). Under the Old TW Pension Plan and the Amended TW Pension Plan, the pension benefit of participants on December 31, 1977 in the former Time Employees' Profit-Sharing Savings Plan (the "Profit Sharing Plan") is further reduced by a fixed amount attributable to a portion of the employer contributions and investment earnings credited to such employees' account balances in the Profit Sharing Plan as of such date (the "Profit Sharing Offset").
 
Under the Amended TW Pension Plan, employees who are at least 62 years old and have completed at least ten years of service may elect early retirement and receive the full amount of their annual pension. This provision could apply to Messrs. Martin and Marcus with respect to their benefits under the TW Plans. Under the Old TW Pension Plan, employees who are at least 60 years old and have completed at least ten years of service may elect early retirement and receive the full amount of their annual pension. This provision could apply to Mr. Britt. An early retirement supplement is payable to an employee terminating employment at age 55 and before age 60, after 20 years of service, equal to the actuarial equivalent of such person's accrued benefit, or, if greater, an annual amount equal to the lesser of 35% of such person's average compensation determined under the Old TW Pension Plan or such person's accrued benefit at age 60 plus Social Security benefits at age 65. The supplement ceases when the regular pension commences at age 60.
 
Federal law limits both the amount of compensation that is eligible for the calculation of benefits and the amount of benefits derived from employer contributions that may be paid to participants under both of the TW Pension Plans. However, as permitted by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), Time Warner has adopted the Time Warner Excess Benefit Pension Plan (the "TW Excess Plan"). The TW Excess Plan provides for payments by Time Warner of certain amounts which eligible employees would have received under the TW Pension Plans if eligible compensation (including deferred bonuses) were limited to $250,000 in 1994 (increased 5% per year thereafter, to a maximum of $350,000) and there were no payment restrictions. The amounts shown in the table do not reflect the effect of an offset that affects certain participants in the TW Pension Plans on December 31, 1977.
 
Set forth in the table below is each named executive officer's years of credited service and present value of his accumulated benefit under each of the pension plans pursuant to which he would be entitled to a retirement benefit. The estimated amounts are based on the assumption that payments under the TWC Pension Plans and the TW Pension Plans will commence upon normal retirement (generally age 65) or early retirement (for those who have at least ten years of service), that the TWC Pension Plans and the TW Pension Plans will continue in force in their present forms, that the maximum compensation is $350,000 and that no joint and survivor annuity will be payable (which would on an actuarial basis reduce benefits to the employee but provide benefits to a surviving beneficiary). Amounts calculated under the pension formula which exceed ERISA limits will be paid under the Excess Benefit Plan or the TW Excess Plan, as the case may be, from our or Time Warner's assets, respectively, and are included in the present values shown in the table.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
 
Prior to 2003, TWE's unfunded deferred compensation plan generally permitted employees whose annual cash compensation exceeded a designated threshold (including certain named executive officers) to defer receipt of all or a portion of their annual bonus until a specified future date at which a lump-sum or installment distribution will be made. During the deferral period, the participant selects the crediting rate applied to the deferred amount from the array of third party investment vehicles then offered under the TWC Savings Plan and may change that selection quarterly. Since March 2003, deferrals may no longer be made under the deferred compensation plan but amounts previously credited under the deferred compensation plan continue to track the available crediting rate elections. Certain named executive officers also participated in the Time Warner Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan prior to being employed by us. The terms of the Time Warner plan are substantially the same, except that employees of Time
Table of Contents
Warner may still make deferrals under the plan. While these executives may no longer make deferrals under these plans, during the deferral period, they may select the crediting rate applied to the deferred amount similarly to accounts maintained under TWE's plan.
 
During his employment with Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., prior to his employment by us, Mr. Hobbs deferred a portion of his compensation under the Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. Supplemental Benefit Plan, a nonqualified defined contribution plan, and received matching contributions. While he may no longer make deferrals under this plan, he may maintain his existing account and select among several crediting rates, similar to those available under the Time Warner Savings Plan, to be applied to the balance maintained in a rabbi trust on his behalf.
 
In addition, prior to 2002, pursuant to his employment agreement then in place, TWE made contributions for Mr. Britt to a separate special deferred compensation account maintained in a grantor trust. The accounts maintained in the grantor trust are invested by a third party investment manager and the accrued amount will be paid to Mr. Britt following termination of employment in accordance with the terms of the deferred compensation arrangements. In general, except as otherwise described under "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control," payments under Mr. Britt's special deferred compensation account commence following the later of December 31, 2009 and the date Mr. Britt ceases to be our employee and leaves our payroll, for any reason. The payment is made either on the first regular payroll date to occur after such date or, if Mr. Britt is named in our most recent proxy, then in January of the year following the year of the event. There is no guaranteed rate of return on accounts maintained under any of these deferred compensation arrangements.
 
Set forth in the table below is information about the earnings, if any, credited to the accounts maintained by the named executive officers under these arrangements and any withdrawal or distributions therefrom during 2006 and the balance in the account on December 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control
 
The following summaries and tables describe and quantify the potential payments and benefits that would be provided to each of our named executive officers in connection with a termination of employment or a change in control of our company under the executive's employment agreement and our other compensation plans and programs. In determining the benefits payable upon certain terminations of employment, we have assumed in all cases that (i) the executive's employment terminates on December 31, 2006, (ii) he does not become employed by a
Table of Contents
new employer or return to work for us and (iii) we continue to be a consolidated subsidiary of Time Warner during the time that the executive remains on our payroll following termination of employment.
.
 
Glenn A. Britt
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Britt is entitled to certain payments and benefits upon a "termination without cause," which includes our termination of his employment under the employment agreement without "cause" or his termination of such employment due to our material breach. For this purpose, "cause" means certain felony convictions and certain willful and intentional actions by Mr. Britt including failure to perform material duties; misappropriation, embezzlement or destruction of our property; material breach of duty of loyalty to us having a significant adverse financial impact; improper conduct materially prejudicial to our business; and material breach of certain restrictive covenants regarding noncompetition, hiring of employees, and nondisclosure of confidential information. A material breach includes our failure to cause a successor to assume our obligations under the employment agreement; our or a successor's failure to offer Mr. Britt the CEO position after a merger, sale, joint venture or other combination of assets with another entity in the cable business; Mr. Britt not being employed as our CEO with authority, functions, duties and powers consistent with that position; Mr. Britt not reporting to the Board; and Mr. Britt's principal place of employment being anywhere other than the greater Stamford, Connecticut or New York, New York areas.
Termination without Cause/Company Material Breach.
 
In the event of a "termination without cause," Mr. Britt is entitled to the following payments and benefits:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Mr. Britt's right to receive these payments and benefits upon a "termination without cause" is conditioned on his execution of a release of claims against us. If Mr. Britt does not execute a release of claims, he will receive a severance payment determined in accordance with our policies relating to notice and severance. Mr. Britt is required to engage in any mitigation necessary to preserve our tax deduction in respect of the payments described above and avoid applicability of the "golden parachute" excise taxes and related lost corporate tax deduction. Also, if, following a "termination without cause," Mr. Britt obtains other employment (other than with a non-profit organization or government entity), he is required to pay over to us the total cash salary and bonus (but not any equity-based compensation or similar benefit) payable to him by a new employer for services provided until December 31, 2009 to the extent of the amounts we have paid him that are in excess of any severance to which he would be entitled from us under our standard severance policies. Mr. Britt must pay us these amounts when he receives them from his new employer. The payments may also be delayed to the extent we deem it necessary for compliance with section 409A of the Tax Code, governing nonqualified deferred compensation.
Conditions and Obligations Applicable to Receipt of Payments and Benefits.
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Britt is entitled to certain payments and benefits if we cease to be a consolidated subsidiary of Time Warner or if Time Warner disposes of all or substantially all of our assets that results in the financial results of our business not being consolidated with Time Warner's financial results. Upon such a transaction, unless Mr. Britt otherwise qualifies for retirement under the applicable stock option agreement, all Time Warner stock options granted to Mr. Britt on or after January 10, 2000 (a) that would have vested on or before December 31, 2009 will vest immediately and (b) that are vested will remain exercisable for three years following the date of the transaction (but not beyond the original term of the options). All other restricted stock, restricted stock units or other awards will be treated pursuant to applicable plans as if Mr. Britt's employment was terminated without cause on the date of closing of the transaction. If this section applies to any equity-based compensation awards, then the "termination without cause" treatment of such awards (described above) will not apply. Also, if Mr. Britt forfeits any restricted stock grants because of such transaction, then he will receive a cash payment equal to the value of the forfeited stock based on the value of the stock as of the date of the close of the transaction. Payments or benefits may also be delayed to the extent we deem it necessary for compliance with section 409A of the Tax Code.
Change in Control.
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Britt is entitled to payments and benefits if he becomes disabled and has not resumed his duties after six consecutive months or an aggregate of six months in any period. In such event, we will pay him a pro-rata bonus for the year in which the disability occurs (which will be calculated based on his average annual bonus, described above). In addition, through the later of December 31, 2009 or 12 months following the date the disability occurs, Mr. Britt will remain on our payroll, and we will pay Mr. Britt disability benefits equal to 75% of his annual base salary and average annual bonus, and he will continue to be eligible to participate in our benefit plans (other than equity-based plans) and to receive his other benefits (including automobile allowance and financial services). We may generally deduct from these payments amounts equal to disability payments received by Mr. Britt during this payment period from Workers' Compensation, Social Security and our disability insurance policies. Mr. Britt's special deferred compensation account will be distributed in installments over 10 years following the date he leaves our payroll.
Disability.
12-month
 
  No benefits or payments provided above in connection with a termination without cause or due to disability shall be payable after Mr. Britt's normal retirement date at age 65. Under his employment agreement and a separate agreement with Time Warner, Mr. Britt is entitled to certain payments and benefits when he retires. Under these arrangements, to the extent the benefits Mr. Britt receives upon retirement are not as generous as benefits he would have received if he had participated in the defined benefit pension plans offered by Time Warner
Retirement.
Table of Contents
instead of our defined benefit pension plans, then we will provide Mr. Britt with the financial equivalent of the more generous benefits. In addition, Time Warner has agreed to ensure that Mr. Britt receives the equivalent of the benefits he would have received under Time Warner's retiree medical program if he had retired from Time Warner on the same terms and conditions as senior corporate executives of Time Warner upon retirement. This commitment is conditioned on Mr. Britt's retiring pursuant to his employment agreement.
 
  Under his employment agreement, if Mr. Britt dies, the employment agreement and all of our obligations to make any payments under the agreement terminate, except that Mr. Britt's estate or designated beneficiary is entitled to receive: (i) Mr. Britt's salary to the last day of the month in which his death occurs, (ii) any unpaid bonus for the year prior to his death (if not previously determined, then based on his average annual bonus) and (iii) bonus compensation, at the time bonuses are normally paid, based on his average annual bonus but pro-rated according to the number of whole or partial months Mr. Britt was employed by us in the calendar year. Mr. Britt's special deferred compensation account will be distributed in a lump sum within 75 days following his death.
Death.
 
  Under Mr. Britt's employment agreement, if we terminate his employment for cause (as defined above), we will have no further obligations to Mr. Britt other than (i) to pay his base salary through the effective date of termination, (ii) to pay any bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the date of such termination, and (iii) to satisfy any rights Mr. Britt has pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements. Mr. Britt's special deferred compensation account will be valued as of the later of December 31, 2009 and 12 months after termination of employment, and distributed in a lump sum within 75 days of such valuation date.
For Cause.
 
See "Pension Plans" for a description of Mr. Britt's entitlements under our pension plans and Time Warner's pension plans. See "Nonqualified Deferred Compensation" for a description of Mr. Britt's entitlements under nonqualified deferred compensation plans in which he participates.
 
  Mr. Britt's employment agreement provides that he is subject to restrictive covenants that obligate him, among other things: (1) not to disclose any of our confidential matters, (2) not to hire certain of our employees for one year following termination of employment for cause, without cause, or due to retirement at age 65; and (3) not to compete with our business during his employment and until the latest of December 31, 2009, the date Mr. Britt leaves our payroll and 12 months after the effective date of any termination of the term of employment for cause, without cause, or due to retirement at age 65.
Certain Restrictive Covenants.
 
Assuming the trigger event causing any of the termination payments and other benefits described above occurred on December 31, 2006, and based on the NYSE closing price per share of Time Warner Common Stock on December 31, 2006 ($21.78), the dollar value of additional payments and other benefits provided Mr. Britt under his contract are estimated to be as follows:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
John K. Martin
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Martin is entitled to certain payments and benefits upon a "termination without cause," which includes our termination of his employment under the employment agreement without "cause" or his termination of such employment due to our material breach. For this purpose, "cause" means certain felony convictions and certain willful and intentional actions by Mr. Martin including failure to perform material duties; misappropriation, embezzlement or destruction of our property having a significant adverse effect on us; material breach of duty of loyalty to us having a significant adverse effect on us; improper conduct materially prejudicial to our business; and material breach of certain restrictive covenants regarding noncompetition, hiring of employees, and nondisclosure of confidential information. A material breach includes our failure to cause a successor to assume our obligations under the agreement; Mr. Martin not being employed as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with authority, functions, duties and powers consistent with that position; Mr. Martin not reporting to the CEO; and Mr. Martin's principal place of employment being anywhere other than the greater Stamford, Connecticut area or other location of our principal corporate offices in the New York metropolitan area.
Termination without Cause/Company Material Breach.
 
In the event of a "termination without cause," Mr. Martin is entitled to the following payments and benefits:
 
 
  Mr. Martin's right to receive these payments and benefits upon a "termination without cause" is conditioned on his execution of a release of
Conditions and Obligations Applicable to Receipt of Payments and Benefits.
Table of Contents
claims against us. If Mr. Martin does not execute a release of claims, he will receive a severance payment determined in accordance with our policies relating to notice and severance.
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Martin is entitled to certain payments and benefits if we cease to be a consolidated subsidiary of Time Warner or if Time Warner disposes of all or substantially all of our assets that results in the financial results of our business not being consolidated with Time Warner's financial results. Upon such a transaction, unless Mr. Martin otherwise qualifies for retirement under the applicable stock option agreement, all stock options granted to Mr. Martin on or after January 10, 2000 (a) that would have vested on or before December 31, 2009 will vest immediately and (b) that are vested will remain exercisable for three years following the date of the transaction (but not beyond the original term of the options). All other restricted stock, restricted stock units or other awards will be treated pursuant to applicable plans as if Mr. Martin's employment was terminated without cause on the date of closing of the transaction. If this section applies to any equity-based compensation awards, then the "termination without cause" treatment of such awards (described above) will not apply.
Change in Control.
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Martin is entitled to payments and benefits if he becomes disabled and has not resumed his duties after six consecutive months or an aggregate of six months in any period. In such event, we will pay him a pro-rata bonus for the year in which the disability occurs (which will be calculated based on his average annual bonus). In addition, through the later of August 8, 2008 or 12 months following the date the disability occurs, Mr. Martin will remain on our payroll, and we will pay Mr. Martin disability benefits equal to 75% of his annual base salary and average annual bonus, and he will continue to be eligible to participate in our benefit plans (other than equity-based plans) and to receive his other benefits (including financial services). We may generally deduct from these payments amounts equal to disability payments received by Mr. Martin during this payment period from Workers' Compensation, Social Security and our disability insurance policies.
Disability.
12-month
 
  Under his employment agreement, if Mr. Martin dies, the employment agreement and all of our obligations to make any payments under the agreement terminate, except that Mr. Martin's estate or designated beneficiary is entitled to receive: (a) Mr. Martin's salary to the last day of the month in which his death occurs and (b) bonus compensation, at the time bonuses are normally paid, based on his average annual bonus but pro-rated according to the number of whole or partial months Mr. Martin was employed by us in the calendar year.
Death.
 
  Under Mr. Martin's employment agreement, if we terminate his employment for cause (as defined above), we will have no further obligations to Mr. Martin other than (a) to pay his base salary through the effective date of termination, (b) to pay any bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the date of such termination, and (c) to satisfy any rights Mr. Martin has pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements.
For Cause.
 
See "Pension Plans" for a description of Mr. Martin's entitlements under our pension plans and Time Warner's pension plans.
 
  Mr. Martin's employment agreement provides that he is subject to restrictive covenants that obligate him, among other things: (1) not to disclose any of our confidential matters, (2) not to hire certain of our employees for one year following termination of employment for cause or without cause; and (3) not to compete with our business during his employment and until the latest of August 8, 2008, the date Mr. Martin leaves our payroll and 12 months after the effective date of any termination of the term of employment for cause or without cause.
Certain Restrictive Covenants.
 
Assuming the trigger event causing any of the termination payments and other benefits described above occurred on December 31, 2006, and based on the NYSE closing price per share of Time Warner Common Stock on
Table of Contents
December 31, 2006 ($21.78), the dollar value of additional payments and other benefits provided Mr. Martin under his contract are estimated to be as follows:
 
 
 
 
Landel C. Hobbs
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Hobbs is entitled to certain payments and benefits upon a "termination without cause," which includes our termination of his employment under the employment agreement without "cause" or his termination of such employment due to our material breach. For this purpose, "cause" means certain felony convictions and certain willful and intentional actions by Mr. Hobbs including failure to perform material duties; misappropriation, embezzlement or destruction of our property having a significant adverse effect on us; material breach of duty of loyalty to us having a significant adverse effect on us; improper conduct materially prejudicial to our business; and material breach of certain restrictive covenants regarding noncompetition, hiring of employees, and nondisclosure of confidential information. A material breach includes our failure to cause a successor to assume our obligations under the agreement; Mr. Hobbs not being employed as our COO with authority, functions, duties and powers consistent with that position; Mr. Hobbs not reporting to the CEO; and Mr. Hobbs' principal place of employment being anywhere other than Stamford, Connecticut or New York, New York.
Termination without Cause/Company Material Breach.
 
In the event of a "termination without cause," Mr. Hobbs is entitled to the following payments and benefits:
 
Table of Contents
 
  Mr. Hobbs' right to receive these payments and benefits upon a "termination without cause" is conditioned on his execution of a release of claims against us. If Mr. Hobbs does not execute a release of claims, he will receive a severance payment determined in accordance with our policies relating to notice and severance. Mr. Hobbs is required to engage in any mitigation necessary to preserve our tax deduction in respect of the payments described above and avoid applicability of the "golden parachute" excise taxes and related lost corporate tax deduction.
Conditions and Obligations Applicable to Receipt of Payments and Benefits.
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Hobbs is entitled to payments and benefits if he becomes disabled and has not resumed his duties after six consecutive months or an aggregate of six months in any period. In such event, we will pay him a pro-rata bonus for the year in which the disability occurs (which will be calculated based on his average annual bonus). In addition, through the later of July 31, 2008 or 12 months following the date the disability occurs, Mr. Hobbs will remain on our payroll, and we will pay Mr. Hobbs disability benefits equal to 75% of his annual base salary and average annual bonus, and he will continue to be eligible to participate in our benefit plans (other than additional equity-based plans) and to receive his other benefits (including financial services). We may generally deduct from these payments amounts equal to disability payments received by Mr. Hobbs during this payment period from Workers' Compensation, Social Security and our disability insurance policies.
Disability.
12-month
 
  Under his employment agreement, if Mr. Hobbs dies, the employment agreement and all of our obligations to make any payments under the agreement terminate, except that Mr. Hobbs' estate or designated beneficiary is entitled to receive: (a) Mr. Hobbs' salary to the last day of the month in which his death occurs and (b) bonus compensation, at the time bonuses are normally paid, based on his average annual bonus but pro-rated according to the number of whole or partial months Mr. Hobbs was employed by us in the calendar year.
Death.
 
  Under Mr. Hobbs' employment agreement, if we terminate his employment for cause (as defined above), we will have no further obligations to Mr. Hobbs other than (a) to pay his base salary through the effective date of termination, (b) to pay any bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the date of such termination, and (c) to satisfy any rights Mr. Hobbs has pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements.
For Cause.
 
See "Pension Plans" for a description of Mr. Hobbs' entitlements under our pension plans and Time Warner's pension plans. See "Nonqualified Deferred Compensation" for a description of Mr. Hobbs' entitlements under nonqualified deferred compensation plans in which he participates.
 
  Mr. Hobbs' employment agreement provides that he is subject to restrictive covenants that obligate him, among other things: (a) not to disclose any of our confidential matters, (b) not to hire certain of our employees for one year following termination of employment for cause or without cause; and (c) not to compete with our business during his employment and until the latest of July 31, 2008, the date Mr. Hobbs leaves our payroll and 12 months after the effective date of any termination of the term of employment for cause or without cause.
Certain Restrictive Covenants.
 
Assuming the trigger event causing any of the termination payments and other benefits described above occurred on December 31, 2006, and based on the NYSE closing price per share of Time Warner Common Stock on December 31, 2006 ($21.78), the dollar value of additional payments and other benefits provided Mr. Hobbs under his contract are estimated to be as follows:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Robert D. Marcus
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Marcus is entitled to certain payments and benefits upon a "termination without cause," which includes our termination of his employment under the employment agreement without "cause" or his termination of such employment due to our material breach. For this purpose, "cause" means certain felony convictions and certain willful and intentional actions by Mr. Marcus including failure to perform material duties; misappropriation, embezzlement or destruction of our property having a significant adverse effect on us; material breach of duty of loyalty to us having a significant adverse effect on us; improper conduct materially prejudicial to our business; and material breach of certain restrictive covenants regarding noncompetition, nonsolicitation of employees, and nondisclosure of confidential information. A material breach includes our failure to cause a successor to assume our obligations under the agreement; Mr. Marcus not being employed as our Senior Executive Vice President with authority, functions, duties and powers consistent with that position; Mr. Marcus not reporting to the CEO; and Mr. Marcus' principal place of employment being anywhere other than the greater Stamford, Connecticut area or other location of our principal corporate offices in the New York metropolitan area.
Termination without Cause/Company Material Breach.
 
In the event of a "termination without cause," Mr. Marcus is entitled to the following payments and benefits:
 
Table of Contents
 
  Mr. Marcus' right to receive these payments and benefits upon a "termination without cause" is conditioned on his execution of a release of claims against us. If Mr. Marcus does not execute a release of claims, he will receive a severance payment determined in accordance with our policies relating to notice and severance. The payments may also be delayed to the extent we deem it necessary for compliance with section 409A of the Tax Code, governing nonqualified deferred compensation.
Conditions and Obligations Applicable to Receipt of Payments and Benefits.
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Marcus is entitled to certain payments and benefits if we cease to be a consolidated subsidiary of Time Warner or if Time Warner disposes of all or substantially all of our assets that results in the financial results of our business not being consolidated with Time Warner's financial results. Upon such a transaction, unless Mr. Marcus otherwise qualifies for retirement under the applicable stock option, restricted stock, restricted stock unit or other equity-based award agreement, all stock options granted to Mr. Marcus by Time Warner or us on or after January 10, 2000 (a) that would have vested on or before the date when the salary and bonus continuation payments described above would otherwise cease, will vest immediately on the date the transaction closes and will remain exercisable for three years (but not beyond the original term of the options), (b) any unvested awards of Time Warner or our restricted stock, restricted stock units or other equity-based award that would have vested on or before the date when the salary and bonus continuation payments described above would otherwise cease, will vest immediately on the date the transaction closes and (c) any grants of long-term cash compensation which would vest as of the date when the salary and bonus continuation payments described above would otherwise cease, will vest immediately on the date the transaction closes and be paid on the dates on which such long-term cash compensation is ordinarily scheduled to be paid (with the awards in (b) and (c) above being deemed for this purpose to vest pro rata over the applicable vesting period).
Change in Control.
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. Marcus is entitled to payments and benefits if he becomes disabled and has not resumed his duties after six consecutive months or an aggregate of six months in any period. In such event, we will pay him a pro-rata bonus for the year in which the disability occurs (which will be calculated based on his average annual bonus). In addition, through the later of August 15, 2008 or 24 months following the date the disability occurs, Mr. Marcus will remain on our payroll, and we will pay Mr. Marcus disability benefits equal to 75% of his annual base salary and average annual bonus, and he will continue to be eligible to participate in our benefit plans (other than equity-based plans) and to receive his other benefits (including automobile allowance and financial services). We may generally deduct from these payments amounts equal to disability payments received by Mr. Marcus during this payment period from Workers' Compensation, Social Security and our disability insurance policies.
Disability.
12-month
 
  Under his employment agreement, if Mr. Marcus dies, the employment agreement and all of our obligations to make any payments under the agreement terminate, except that Mr. Marcus' estate or designated beneficiary is entitled to receive: (a) Mr. Marcus' salary to the last day of the month in which his death occurs and (b) bonus compensation, at the time bonuses are normally paid, based on his average annual bonus but pro-rated according to the number of whole or partial months Mr. Marcus was employed by us in the calendar year.
Death.
 
  Under his employment agreement, if we terminate his employment for cause (as defined above), we will have no further obligations to Mr. Marcus other than (a) to pay his base salary through the effective date of termination, (b) to pay any bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the date of such termination, and (c) to satisfy any rights Mr. Marcus has pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements.
For Cause.
 
See "Pension Plans" for a description of Mr. Marcus' entitlements under our pension plans and Time Warner's pension plans. See "Nonqualifed Deferred Compensation" for a description of Mr. Marcus' entitlements under nonqualified deferred compensation plans in which he participates.
 
  Mr. Marcus' employment agreement provides that he is subject to restrictive covenants that obligate him, among other things: (a) not to disclose any of our confidential matters, (b) not to solicit certain of our employees for one year following termination of employment for cause or without cause; and (c) not to compete with our business during his employment and until the latest of August 15, 2008, the date Mr. Marcus leaves our payroll and 12 months after the effective date of any termination of the term of employment for cause or without cause.
Certain Restrictive Covenants.
Table of Contents
Assuming the trigger event causing any of the termination payments and other benefits described above occurred on December 31, 2006, and based on the NYSE closing price per share of Time Warner Common Stock on December 31, 2006 ($21.78), the dollar value of additional payments and other benefits provided Mr. Marcus under his contract are estimated to be as follows:
 
 
 
 
Michael L. LaJoie
 
  Under his employment agreement, Mr. LaJoie is entitled to certain payments and benefits upon our termination of his employment under the employment agreement without "cause" or his termination of such employment due to our material breach. For this purpose, "cause" means a felony conviction; willful refusal to perform his obligations; material breach of specified covenants, including restrictive covenants relating to confidentiality, noncompetition and nonsolicitation; or willful misconduct that has a substantial adverse effect on us. A material breach includes Mr. LaJoie not being employed as our Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer, with authority, functions, duties and powers consistent with that position, or certain changes in Mr. LaJoie's reporting line. If we terminate Mr. LaJoie's employment without cause, if we fail to renew his agreement or if Mr. LaJoie terminates his employment due to our material breach of his agreement, he will receive the benefits due under any of our benefit plans, and he may elect to either:
Termination without Cause.
 
 
Mr. LaJoie will also be entitled to executive level outplacement services for up to one year following his termination of employment.
 
  Under Mr. LaJoie's employment agreement, because Mr. LaJoie has worked for us at the senior executive level for more than five years, if he is employed by us when he is 55 years of age, he may elect a
Retirement Option.
Table of Contents
retirement option. Mr. La Joie is not currently eligible to receive this benefit. The retirement option would require Mr. LaJoie to remain actively employed by us for a transition period of six months to one year following this election, during which he will continue to receive his current annual salary and bonus (calculated in the same manner as bonus is computed above for severance purposes). Following the transition period, Mr. LaJoie would become an advisor to us for three years during which he will be paid his annual base salary and he will also receive his full bonus for the first year, a 50% bonus for the second year and no bonus for the third year. As an advisor, he will not be required to devote more than 5 days per month to such services. Mr. LaJoie would continue vesting in any outstanding stock options and long-term cash incentives during this period, continue participation in benefit plans, pension plans and group insurance plans, and receive reimbursement for financial and estate planning expenses and $10,000 for office space expenses.
 
If Mr. LaJoie attains age 65 by the end of the term of his employment agreement, we will not be obligated to renew the agreement, and Mr. LaJoie will not be entitled to severance as a result of our non-renewal in such event.
 
  Mr. LaJoie's right to receive these payments and benefits upon a termination without cause, a termination due to a material breach or under the retirement option, is conditioned on his execution of a release of claims against us. If Mr. LaJoie does not execute a release of claims, he will receive a severance payment determined in accordance with our policies relating to notice and severance. Mr. LaJoie is required to engage in any mitigation necessary to preserve our tax deduction in respect of the payments described above and avoid applicability of the "golden parachute" excise taxes and related lost corporate tax deduction.
Conditions and Obligations Applicable to Receipt of Payments and Benefits.
 
  Under his employment agreement, if Mr. LaJoie becomes disabled and cannot perform his duties for 26 consecutive weeks, his employment may be terminated, and he will receive, in addition to earned and unpaid base salary through termination, an amount equal to 2.5 times his annual base salary and the greater of the average of his two most recent annual bonuses or his then applicable annual target bonus amount (subject to the same exception described above if less than two annual bonuses are actually provided prior to termination).
Disability.
 
  If Mr. LaJoie dies prior to the termination of his employment agreement, his estate or beneficiaries will receive life insurance payments equal to 30 months of his annual salary and the greater of his average annual bonus multiplied by 2.5, or his then applicable target bonus multiplied by 2.5 (subject to the same exception described above if less than two annual bonuses are actually provided prior to termination).
Death.
 
  Under Mr. LaJoie's employment agreement, our obligations to Mr. LaJoie in the event of his termination for cause (as defined in the agreement) are the same as our obligations to Mr. Hobbs.
For Cause.
 
See "Pension Plans" for a description of Mr. LaJoie's entitlements under our pension plans and Time Warner's pension plans.
 
  Mr. LaJoie's employment agreement provides that he is subject to restrictive covenants that obligate him, among other things: (1) not to disclose any of our confidential matters, (2) not to solicit certain of our employees for one year following termination of employment; and (3) not to compete with our business during his employment and for one year following termination of employment.
Certain Restrictive Covenants.
 
Assuming the trigger event causing any of the termination payments and other benefits described above occurred on December 31, 2006, and based on the NYSE closing price per share of Time Warner Common Stock on December 31, 2006 ($21.78), the dollar value of additional payments and other benefits provided Mr. LaJoie under his contract are estimated to be as follows:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Director Compensation
 
The table below sets out the cash compensation that has been paid or earned by our directors who are not active employees of ours or of Time Warner or its affiliates ("non-employee directors") during 2006. No equity awards or other compensatory awards were made to the non-employee directors during 2006.
 
We compensate non-employee directors with a combination of equity and cash that we believe is comparable to and consistent with approximately the median compensation provided to independent directors of similarly sized public entities. Prior to July 31, 2006, Messrs. Chang and Nicholas, who served as independent directors, received annual compensation of $75,000. Since July 31, 2006, each non-employee director receives an annual cash retainer of $85,000. Following the listing of our Class A common stock on the NYSE, we expect to provide each non-employee director with a total annual director compensation package consisting of (i) a cash retainer of $85,000 and (ii) an equity award of full value stock units valued at $95,000 representing our contingent obligation to deliver the designated number of shares of Class A common stock.
 
An additional annual cash retainer of $20,000 is paid to the chair of the audit committee and $10,000 to each other member of the audit committee. No additional compensation is paid for attendance at meetings of the board of directors or a board committee. Non-employee directors are reimbursed for expenses incurred in connection with attending meetings of the board and its committees.
out-of-pocket
 
In general, for non-employee directors who join the board less than six months prior to our next annual meeting of stockholders, our policy is to increase the stock unit grant on a pro-rated basis and to provide a pro-rated cash retainer consistent with the compensation package described above, subject to limitations that may exist under the applicable equity plan.
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Additional Information
 
In connection with an order dated March 21, 2005, Mr. Pace reached a settlement with the SEC, pursuant to which he agreed, without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, to the entry of an administrative order that he cease and desist from causing violations or future violations of certain reporting provisions of the securities laws; however, he is not subject to any suspension, bar or penalty. For more information, see "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionOverviewRestatement of Prior Financial Information."
 
The spouse of Ms. Black's half sister is employed by our North Carolina division. In connection with his employment, he received compensation in excess of $120,000 in 2006.
 
Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
 
Prior to July 31, 2006, our entire board of directors served as our compensation committee and participated in deliberations concerning the compensation of our executive officers. On July 31, 2006, upon the closing of the Transactions, Mr. Jeffrey Bewkes, Time Warner's President and Chief Operating Officer, resigned from our board and we expanded our board from six members to ten. A new, separate, five-member compensation committee was appointed consisting of Ms. Black and Messrs. Castro, Haje, Logan and Lynne. Mr. Britt, who serves as a Class B director, was our Chief Executive Officer throughout the last completed fiscal year and has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since February 15, 2006. Mr. Logan, Chairman of our board of directors and a Class B director, served as Chairman of Time Warner's Media and Communications Group from July 31, 2002 until December 31, 2005 and is currently a non-active employee of Time Warner. Mr. Wayne H. Pace, a Class B director, served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TWE from November 2001 to October 2004 and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Time Warner since November 2001.
 
2006 Equity Plan
 
2006 Stock Incentive Plan
 
In 2006, we adopted the 2006 Plan, which allows us to grant equity-based compensation awards to participants. The purpose of the 2006 Plan is to aid us in attracting, retaining and motivating employees, directors and advisors and to provide us with a stock plan providing incentives directly related to our success.
 
Eligibility
 
Awards may be made to any of our or our subsidiaries' employees, prospective employees, directors, officers and advisors in the discretion of our compensation committee or a subcommittee of our compensation committee (the "Committee").
 
Shares Subject to the Plan
 
The total number of shares of Class A common stock that may be issued under the 2006 Plan is 100,000,000. The maximum number of shares with respect to which awards may be granted during each calendar year to any given participant may not exceed 1,500,000 shares; however, the maximum number of shares that may be awarded in the form of restricted stock or other stock-based awards payable in shares of Class A common stock shall be equal to 1,500,000 divided by a ratio that is the quotient resulting from dividing the most recent fair value of a share of such stock or award, as determined for financial reporting purposes, by the most recent fair value of a stock option granted under the 2006 Plan. The maximum aggregate number of shares with respect to which awards may be made during each calendar year is 1.5% of the number of shares of Class A common stock outstanding on December 31 of
Table of Contents
the preceding year. If any award is forfeited or otherwise terminates or lapses without payment of consideration, the shares subject to that award will again be available for future grant. In addition, any shares issued in connection with awards other than stock options or stock appreciation rights shall be counted against the 100,000,000 authorization as the number of shares equal to the ratio described above for every one share issued in connection with such award, or by which the award is valued.
 
Types of Awards
 
Under the 2006 Plan, the Committee may award stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based awards, as described below.
 
Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
 
Stock options awarded under the 2006 Plan may be nonqualified or incentive stock options. Stock appreciation rights may be granted independent of or in conjunction with stock options. The exercise price per share of Class A common stock for any nonqualified or incentive stock options or stock appreciation rights cannot be less than the fair market value of a share of Class A common stock on the date the award is granted; except that, in the case of a stock appreciation right granted in conjunction with a stock option, the exercise price cannot be less than the exercise price of the related stock option. The Committee will be responsible for administering the 2006 Plan and may impose the terms and conditions of stock options and stock appreciation rights as it deems fit, but the awards generally will not be exercisable for a period of more than ten years after they are granted. Participants in the 2006 Plan will not receive dividends or dividend equivalents or have any voting rights with respect to shares underlying stock options or stock appreciation rights. Each stock appreciation right granted independent of a stock option will entitle a participant upon exercise to an amount equal to the product of (i) the excess of (A) the fair market value on the exercise date of one share of Class A common stock over (B) the exercise price, multiplied by (ii) the number of shares of Class A common stock covered by the stock appreciation right, and each unexercised stock appreciation right granted in conjunction with a stock option will entitle a participant to surrender the stock option and receive the amount described in the preceding formula. Payment of the exercise price will be made in cash and/or shares of Class A common stock (valued at fair market value), as determined by the Committee. Once granted, no option or stock appreciation right may be repriced.
 
Restricted Stock
 
The Committee will determine the terms and conditions of restricted stock awards, including the number of shares of restricted stock to grant to a participant. The Committee may also determine the period during which, and the conditions, if any, under which, the restricted stock may be forfeited; however, except with respect to awards to members of our Board of Directors, not less than 95% of the shares of restricted stock shall remain subject to forfeiture for at least three years after the date of grant, though such forfeiture condition may expire earlier, in whole or in part, in the event of a change in control of our company or the death, disability or other termination of the award holder's employment. Dividends on restricted stock may be paid directly to the participant, withheld by us subject to vesting, or reinvested in additional shares of restricted stock, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. Certain restricted stock awards may be granted in a manner designed to allow us to deduct their value under section 162(m) of the Tax Code; these awards will be based on one or more of the performance criteria set forth below.
 
Other Stock-Based Awards
 
The Committee may grant stock awards, unrestricted stock and other awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on the fair market value of, our Class A common stock. Such stock-based awards may be in the form, and dependent on conditions, determined by the Committee, including the right to receive, or vest with respect to, one or more shares of Class A common stock (or the equivalent cash value of such shares) upon the completion of a specified period of service, the occurrence of an event and/or the attainment of performance objectives. The maximum amount of other stock-based awards that may be granted during a calendar year to any participant is: (i) the number of shares equal to 1,500,000 divided by the ratio described above, with
Table of Contents
respect to other stock-based awards that are denominated or payable in shares of Class A common stock, and (ii) $10 million, with respect to non-stock denominated awards.
 
Performance-Based Awards
 
Certain awards may be granted in a manner designed to allow us to deduct their value under section 162(m) of the Tax Code. These performance-based awards will be based on one or more of the following performance criteria: (i) Operating Income before depreciation and amortization, (ii) Operating Income, (iii) earnings per share, (iv) return on shareholders' equity, (v) revenues or sales, (vi) Free Cash Flow, (vii) return on invested capital, (viii) total shareholder return and (ix) revenue generating unit-based metrics. The Committee will establish the performance goals for these performance-based awards and certify that the goals have been met, in each case, in the manner required by section 162(m) of the Tax Code.
 
Adjustments Upon Certain Events
 
In the event of a change in the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock due to a stock dividend or split, reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, share exchange or any other similar transaction, the Committee may adjust (i) the number or kind of shares of Class A common stock or other securities issued or reserved for issuance pursuant to the 2006 Plan or pursuant to outstanding awards, (ii) the maximum number of shares for which awards may be granted during a calendar year to any participant, (iii) the option price or exercise price of any stock appreciation right and/or (iv) any other affected terms of such awards. Upon the occurrence of a change in control of our company (as defined in the 2006 Plan), the Committee may (w) accelerate, vest or cause the restrictions to lapse with respect to all or any portion of an award, (x) cancel awards for fair value, (y) provide for the issuance of substitute awards that will substantially preserve the otherwise applicable terms of any affected awards previously granted under the 2006 Plan, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, or (z) provide that, for a period of at least 30 days prior to the change in control, such stock options will be exercisable as to all shares subject to the 2006 Plan and that upon the occurrence of the change in control, such stock options will terminate.
 
Administration
 
The 2006 Plan is currently administered by the Committee, which may appoint a subcommittee that consists of two directors who are intended to qualify as "non-employee directors" within the meaning of under the Exchange Act and "outside directors" within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Tax Code. The Committee is authorized to interpret the 2006 Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the 2006 Plan, and to make any other determinations that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the 2006 Plan.
Rule 16b-3
 
Amendment and Termination
 
Our board of directors or the Committee may amend, alter or discontinue the 2006 Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation will be made (i) without stockholder approval, if it would increase the total number of shares of Class A common stock reserved under the plan or the maximum number of shares of restricted stock or other stock-based awards that may be awarded thereunder, or if it would increase the maximum number of shares for which awards may be granted to any participant, (ii) without the consent of a participant, if it would diminish any of the rights of the participant under any award previously granted to the participant or (iii) without stockholder approval, to permit repricing of options or stock appreciation rights. No new awards may be made under the 2006 Plan after the fifth anniversary of the first grant of an award under the 2006 Plan.
Table of Contents
 
 
Procedures for Approval of Transactions
 
Our by-laws, which were amended in connection with the Adelphia Acquisition, provide that Time Warner may only enter into transactions with us and our subsidiaries, including TWE, that are on terms that, at the time of entering into such transaction, are substantially as favorable to us or our subsidiaries as we or they would be able to receive in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a third party. Any such transaction involving reasonably anticipated payments or other consideration of $50 million or greater also requires the prior approval of a majority of our independent directors. Our by-laws prohibit us from entering into any transaction having the intended effect of benefiting Time Warner and any of its affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) in a manner that would deprive us of the benefit we would have otherwise obtained if the transaction were to have been effected on arm's length terms. Pursuant to the TWC Purchase Agreement, we have included a provision in our by-laws that prohibits amending this provision for a period of five years following the Adelphia Closing, without the consent of a majority of the holders of our Class A common stock, other than any member of the Time Warner Group.
 
Our Standards of Business Conduct and Guidelines for Non-Employee Directors contain general procedures for the approval of transactions between us and our directors and executive officers and certain other transactions involving our directors and executive officers. Our Standards for Business Conduct and Guidelines for Non-Employee Directors will be available on our website upon the listing of our Class A common stock on the NYSE.
 
The Transactions
 
We and/or our subsidiaries entered into the following agreements with Time Warner, Comcast and Adelphia in connection with the Transactions:
 
 
We also entered into the TWC/Comcast Tax Matters Agreement in connection with the Transactions. See "BusinessThe Transactions" for a description of these agreements. In addition, we entered into the Shareholder Agreement with Time Warner in connection with the Transactions, the terms of which are described below under "Relationship between Time Warner and Us."
 
TWE
 
TWE, a Delaware limited partnership and an indirect subsidiary of ours, was formed in 1992. Prior to the TWE Restructuring, subsidiaries of Time Warner owned general and limited partnership interests in TWE consisting of 72.36% of the pro-rata priority capital and residual equity capital and 100% of the junior priority capital, and trusts formed by Comcast owned limited partnership interests in TWE consisting of 27.64% of the pro-rata priority capital and residual equity capital. Before the TWE Restructuring described below, TWE was engaged in three businessescable television, filmed entertainment and programming.
 
The TWE Restructuring was completed on March 31, 2003 under a Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002 and amended as of March 31, 2003, among our company, Time Warner, TWE, AT&T Corp., Comcast and other parties (the "Restructuring Agreement"). We were formed prior to the TWE Restructuring to be the successor in interest to an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Comcast which merged into us as part of the TWE Restructuring.
Table of Contents
Through a series of steps executed in connection with the TWE Restructuring:
 
 
As a result of the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner held shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock representing, in the aggregate, 89.3% of our voting power and 82.1% of our outstanding equity. Additionally, as part of the TWE Restructuring, TWE issued $2.4 billion in mandatorily redeemable preferred equity to ATC, a subsidiary of Time Warner.
 
In the TWE Redemption, which occurred on July 31, 2006 immediately prior to the Adelphia Acquisition, TWE redeemed all of the residual equity interest of TWE held by Comcast Trust I in exchange for 100% of the limited liability company interests of Cable Holdco III. As a result of the TWE Redemption, Comcast no longer has an interest in TWE. See "BusinessThe TransactionsTWC/Comcast AgreementsThe TWE Redemption Agreement."
 
The ATC Contribution was consummated on July 28, 2006. In the ATC Contribution, ATC contributed its 1% common equity interest and $2.4 billion preferred equity interest in TWE that it received in the TWE Restructuring to TW NY Holding, the direct parent of TW NY and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of ours, for a non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding. The non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding received by ATC represents approximately 12.4% of the equity securities of TW NY Holding and was valued at approximately $2.9 billion, reflecting the value of the $2.4 billion preferred interest in TWE and the 1% residual equity interest in TWE.
 
As a result of the TWE Redemption and the ATC Contribution, two of our subsidiaries are the sole general and limited partners of TWE.
 
Restructuring Agreement
 
The Restructuring Agreement required the parties to enter into various agreements to accomplish the restructuring steps outlined above. In addition, the Restructuring Agreement provided for the following indemnities and special distributions:
General.  
 
In the Restructuring Agreement, Time Warner made various representations and warranties to AT&T and Comcast with respect to the business of Time Warner, TWE and TWI Cable, and AT&T and Comcast made various representations and warranties to Time Warner with respect to the conduct of our business prior to the TWE Restructuring and the business of AT&T and Comcast. In addition, the parties made some covenants with respect to their businesses and the businesses of their subsidiaries. The parties agreed to indemnify us for liabilities resulting from breaches of specified representations, warranties and covenants. In addition, Comcast agreed to indemnify us for some employment- and benefits-related claims arising prior to the
Indemnification for claims not related to taxes.  
Table of Contents
TWE Restructuring, and agreed to indemnify us for the failure of their permitted transferees to comply with restructuring-related agreements or the TWE partnership agreement prior to the TWE Restructuring. Comcast, Comcast Trust II and Comcast Trust I have the right to enforce our rights to indemnification under the Restructuring Agreement against Time Warner.
 
During various periods prior to the closing of the TWE Restructuring, we were a member of consolidated groups, filing consolidated federal income tax returns, in which MediaOne Group, Inc., AT&T or Comcast was the common parent corporation. We were also, during various periods prior to the closing of the TWE Restructuring, a member of combined or unitary groups that filed combined or unitary state income tax returns. Each member of a consolidated group filing consolidated federal income tax returns is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group. Some states have similar joint and several liability for state income taxes of companies that file combined or unitary state income tax returns. Comcast is responsible for paying any of our taxes, including any taxes for which we may be liable by virtue of having been a member of any consolidated, combined or unitary tax group, in respect of events occurring or taxable periods ending on or before the TWE Restructuring, and, with respect to any taxable period that begins before but ends after the date of the TWE Restructuring, the portion of that period that ends on the date of the TWE Restructuring, including any taxes incurred by us with respect to the TWE Restructuring. Although Comcast has indemnified us against this joint and several liability for the period set forth above, we would be liable in the event that this liability was incurred but not discharged by Comcast or by another member of the relevant consolidated, combined or unitary group.
Responsibility for taxes.  
 
We agreed to indemnify Comcast for any taxes attributable to taxable periods beginning on or after the date of the TWE Restructuring and, with respect to any taxable period that begins before but ends after the date of the TWE Restructuring, the portion of the period beginning the day after the date of the TWE Restructuring.
 
We agreed that, in the event that:
Special distribution.  
 
 
then TWE is required to make a special distribution to Comcast to cover a portion of the taxes resulting from these events.
 
TWE Distribution Agreement
 
In the TWE Restructuring, TWE entered into a distribution agreement with us, Time Warner and WCI. Under the distribution agreement, TWE distributed to WCI all of its assets other than cable-related assets held by TWE or its subsidiaries.
 
WCI assumed all of TWE's liabilities other than liabilities primarily related to TWE's cable business and some of the debt that was retained by TWE under the Restructuring Agreement. The liabilities retained by TWE included cable-related contractual liabilities, liabilities related to the assets retained by TWE, liabilities with respect to employees employed in the cable business and a liability in respect of unpaid management fees.
 
Notwithstanding WCI's assumption of TWE's non-cable-related liabilities, TWE's general partner and TWE remain liable to third parties for some of these liabilities. Time Warner agreed to indemnify TWE against any liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from the transferred businesses, from failures to perform or discharge the assumed liabilities and breaches of the distribution agreement. We and TWE agreed to indemnify WCI in a similar fashion with respect to liabilities arising from the cable business retained by TWE. Our independent directors have the right to enforce TWE's rights under the distribution agreement, and any amendments to the distribution agreement require the written consent of the party against whom the amendment is sought.
Table of Contents
TWI Cable Contribution Agreement
 
In the TWE Restructuring, we entered into a contribution agreement with WCI. Under the contribution agreement, WCI contributed to us all of the cable business that was operated by TWI Cable and its subsidiaries prior to the TWE Restructuring and all of the TWE partnership interests held by WCI prior to the TWE Restructuring. In connection with the contribution, we assumed all liabilities primarily related to TWI Cable's cable business and all liabilities resulting from WCI's capacity as a partner of TWE that primarily relate to TWE's cable business.
 
Time Warner and WCI agreed to indemnify us against any liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from the businesses formerly operated by TWI Cable and its subsidiaries that were not contributed to us, from failures to perform or discharge liabilities relating to those businesses, from breaches of the contribution agreement and from all liabilities resulting from any person's capacity as a partner of TWE that are not primarily related to TWE's cable business. We agreed to indemnify WCI in a similar fashion with respect to liabilities arising from the cable business transferred to us and liabilities resulting from any person's capacity as a partner of TWE that primarily relate to TWE's cable business. Our independent directors have the non-exclusive right to enforce our rights under the contribution agreement. Any amendments to the contribution agreement require the written consent of the party against whom the amendment is sought.
 
Description of Certain Agreements Related to Comcast
 
Prior to the TWE Restructuring, trusts formed by Comcast owned limited partnership interests in TWE consisting of 27.64% of the pro-rata priority capital and residual equity capital. After the TWE Restructuring, trusts established for the benefit of Comcast, held a 21% economic interest in us through a 17.9% direct common stock ownership interest in us and a 4.7% residual equity interest TWE. In the Redemptions, we redeemed all of Comcast's common stock ownership in us and its residual equity interest in TWE and, as a result, Comcast no longer beneficially owns an interest in our company. In the ordinary course of our cable business, we have entered into various agreements with Comcast and its various divisions and affiliates on terms that we believe are no less favorable than those that could be obtained in agreements with third parties. We do not believe that any of these agreements are material to our business. These agreements include:
 
 
Under these agreements, we received approximately $188,000, $0 and $6.8 million from Comcast and its affiliates, and we conferred approximately $29.4 million, $43.5 million and $39.6 million to Comcast and its affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Table of Contents
Relationship between Time Warner and Us
 
Time Warner Registration Rights Agreement
 
On March 31, 2003, Time Warner entered into a registration rights agreement with us (the "Time Warner Registration Rights Agreement") relating to Time Warner's shares of our common stock. The following description of the Time Warner Registration Rights Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the Time Warner Registration Rights Agreement, which is an exhibit to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
Subject to several exceptions, including our right to defer a demand registration under some circumstances, Time Warner may, under that agreement, require that we take commercially reasonable steps to register for public resale under the Securities Act all shares of common stock that Time Warner requests be registered. Time Warner may demand an unlimited number of registrations. In addition, Time Warner has been granted "piggyback" registration rights subject to customary restrictions, and we are permitted to piggyback on Time Warner's registrations.
 
In connection with registrations under the Time Warner Registration Rights Agreement, we are required to indemnify Time Warner and bear all fees, costs and expenses, except underwriting discounts and selling commissions.
 
Indebtedness Approval Right
 
Under the Shareholder Agreement, until such time as our indebtedness is no longer attributable to Time Warner, in Time Warner's reasonable judgment, we, our subsidiaries and the entities that we manage may not, without the consent of Time Warner, create, incur or guarantee any indebtedness, including preferred equity, or rental obligations (other than with respect to certain approved leases) if our ratio of indebtedness plus six times our annual rental expense to EBITDA (as defined in the Shareholder Agreement) plus rental expense, or "EBITDAR," then exceeds or would as a result of that incurrence exceed 3:1, calculated without including any of our indebtedness or preferred equity held by Time Warner and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Currently this ratio exceeds 3:1. Although Time Warner has consented to the issuance of commercial paper or borrowings under our current revolving credit facility up to the limit of that credit facility, any other incurrence of debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or the issuance of preferred stock in the future will require Time Warner's approval. See "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Relationship with Time WarnerTime Warner's approval right over our ability to incur indebtedness may harm our liquidity and operations and restrict our growth."
 
The description of the Shareholder Agreement herein does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the Shareholder Agreement, which is an exhibit to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
Other Time Warner Rights
 
Under the Shareholder Agreement, as long as Time Warner has the power to elect a majority of our board of directors, we must obtain Time Warner's consent before we enter into any agreement that binds or purports to bind Time Warner or its affiliates or that would subject us or our subsidiaries to significant penalties or restrictions as a result of any action or omission of Time Warner or its affiliates; or adopt a stockholder rights plan, become subject to section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, adopt a "fair price" provision in our certificate of incorporation or take any similar action.
 
Furthermore, pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement, Time Warner (and its subsidiaries) may purchase debt securities issued by TWE under the TWE Indenture only after giving notice to us of the approximate amount of debt securities it intends to purchase and the general time period (the "Specified Period") for the purchase, which period may not be greater than 90 days. If we, within five business days following receipt of such notice, indicate our good faith intention to purchase the amount of debt securities indicated in Time Warner's notice within the Specified Period, then Time Warner (and its subsidiaries) will not purchase any debt securities under the TWE Indenture during the Specified Period and shall give notice to us prior to any subsequent purchase of debt securities issued under the TWE Indenture. If we do not indicate our good faith intention to purchase the amount of debt securities
Table of Contents
indicated in Time Warner's notice, then Time Warner will be entitled to proceed with its purchase of debt securities issued under the TWE Indenture for the duration of the Specified Period.
 
Time Warner Standstill
 
Under the Shareholder Agreement, Time Warner has agreed that for a period of three years following the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, Time Warner will not make or announce a tender offer or exchange offer for our Class A common stock without the approval of a majority of our independent directors; and for a period of 10 years following the Adelphia Closing, Time Warner will not enter into any business combination with us, including a short-form merger, without the approval of a majority of our independent directors. Under the TWC Purchase Agreement, we have agreed that for a period of two years following the Adelphia Closing, we will not enter into any short-form merger and that for a period of 18 months following the Adelphia Closing we will not issue equity securities to any person (other than, subject to satisfying certain requirements, us and our affiliates) that have a higher vote per share than our Class A common stock.
 
Reimbursement for Time Warner Equity Compensation
 
From time to time our employees and employees of TWE, TWE-A/N and our joint ventures are granted options to purchase shares of Time Warner common stock in connection with their employment with subsidiaries and affiliates of Time Warner. We and TWE have agreed that, upon the exercise by any of our officers or employees of any options to purchase Time Warner common stock, we will reimburse Time Warner in an amount equal to the excess of the closing price of a share of Time Warner common stock on the date of the exercise of the option over the aggregate exercise price paid by the exercising officer or employee for each share of Time Warner common stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had accrued approximately $137 million of stock option reimbursement obligations payable to Time Warner. That amount, which is not payable until the underlying options are exercised, will be adjusted in subsequent accounting periods based on the number of additional options granted and changes in the quoted market prices for shares of Time Warner common stock. We reimbursed amounts of $12 million, $7 million and $8 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. See Note 10 to our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, which is included elsewhere in this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
Debt Guarantees
 
As described in "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial ConditionFinancial Condition and LiquidityBank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs," and TWE Notes and Debentures," WCI and ATC, subsidiaries of Time Warner that are not our subsidiaries, previously guaranteed our obligations under the Credit Facilities and the TWE Notes. On November 2, 2006, each of WCI's and ATC's guarantee of the TWE Notes and the Cable Facilities were terminated and we directly guaranteed TWE's obligations under the TWE Notes. See also "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Relationship with Time Warner."
 
Other Agreements Related to Our Cable Business
 
In the ordinary course of our cable business, we have entered into various agreements and arrangements with Time Warner and its various divisions and affiliates on terms that we believe are no less favorable than those that could be obtained in agreements with third parties. We do not believe that any of these agreements or arrangements are individually material to our business. These agreements and arrangements include:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Under these agreements, we received approximately $94.0 million, $106.7 million and $105.4 million in aggregate payments from Time Warner and its affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries), and we made approximately $808.3 million, $604.4 million and $592.9 million in aggregate payments to Time Warner and its affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
Reimbursement for Services
 
Prior to the TWE Restructuring, TWE historically paid a management fee to Time Warner to cover general overhead, a portion of which was allocated to our cable business in preparing our historical financial statements. The amount allocated for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $12 million. Under an arrangement that went into effect immediately after the completion of the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner provides us with specified administrative services, including selected tax, human resources, legal, information technology, treasury, financial, public policy and corporate and investor relations services. We pay fees that approximate Time Warner's estimated overhead cost for services rendered. The services rendered and fees paid are renegotiated annually. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, we incurred a total of approximately $11.8 million, $7.6 million and $6.6 million, respectively, under this arrangement.
 
Time Warner Brand and Trade Name License Agreement
 
In connection with the TWE Restructuring, we entered into a license agreement with Time Warner, under which Time Warner granted us a perpetual, royalty-free, exclusive license to use, in the United States and its territories and possessions, the "TW," "Time Warner Cable," "TWC" and "TW Cable" marks and specified related marks as a trade name and on marketing materials, promotional products, portals and equipment and software. We may extend these rights to our subsidiaries and specified others involved in delivery of our products and services. The description of the license agreement herein does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the license agreement, which is an exhibit to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
This license agreement contains restrictions on use and scope, including as to exclusivity, as well as cross-indemnification provisions.
 
Time Warner may terminate the agreement if we fail to cure a material breach or other specified breach of the agreement, we become bankrupt or insolvent or if a change of control of us occurs. A change of control occurs upon the earlier of:
 
 
Road Runner Brand License Agreement
 
In connection with the TWE Restructuring, we entered into a license agreement with WCI. WCI granted us a perpetual, royalty-free license to use, in the United States and its territories and possessions and in Canada, the "Road Runner" mark and copyright and some of the related marks. We may use the Road Runner licensed marks in connection with high-speed data services and other services ancillary to those services, and on marketing materials, promotional products, portals and equipment and software. The license is exclusive regarding high-speed data services, ancillary broadband services and equipment and software. The license is non-exclusive regarding promotional products and portals. WCI is prohibited from licensing to third parties the right to use these marks in connection with DSL, or direct broadcast satellite technologies in the United States, its territories and
dial-up
Table of Contents
possession, or in Canada. The description of the Road Runner license agreement herein does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the Road Runner license agreement, which is an exhibit to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
We may extend these rights to our subsidiaries and specified others involved in delivery of our products and services. This license agreement contains restrictions on use and scope, including quality control standards, as well as cross-indemnification provision. WCI may terminate the agreement if we fail to cure a material breach or other specified breach of the agreement, if we become bankrupt or insolvent or if a change of control of us occurs. A change of control occurs upon the earlier of:
 
 
TWE Intellectual Property Agreement
 
As part of the TWE Restructuring, TWE entered into an intellectual property agreement (the "TWE Intellectual Property Agreement") with WCI that allocated to TWE intellectual property relating to the cable business and allocated to WCI intellectual property relating to the non-cable business, primarily content-related assets, such as HBO assets and Warner Bros. Studio assets. The agreement also provided for cross licenses between TWE and WCI so that each may continue to use intellectual property that each was respectively using at the time of the TWE Restructuring. Under the TWE Intellectual Property Agreement, each of TWE and WCI granted the other a non-exclusive, fully paid up, worldwide, perpetual, non-sublicensable (except to affiliates), non-assignable (except to affiliates), royalty free and irrevocable license to use the intellectual property covered by the TWE Intellectual Property Agreement. In addition, both TWE and WCI granted each other sublicenses to use intellectual property licensed to either by third parties that were being used at the time of the TWE Restructuring. The description of the TWE Intellectual Property Agreement herein does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the TWE Intellectual Property Agreement, which is an exhibit to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
TWI Cable Intellectual Property Agreement
 
Prior to the TWE Restructuring, TWI Cable entered into an intellectual property agreement (the "TWI Cable Intellectual Property Agreement") with WCI with substantially the same terms as the TWE Intellectual Property Agreement. The TWI Cable Intellectual Property Agreement allocated to WCI intellectual property related to the cable business and allocated to TWI Cable intellectual property related to the non-cable business. As part of the TWE Restructuring, WCI then assigned to us the cable-related intellectual property assets it received under that agreement. These agreements make us the beneficiary of cross licenses to TWI Cable intellectual property related to the non-cable business, on substantially the same terms as those described above. In connection with the TWI Cable Intellectual Property Agreement, TW Cable and WCI executed and delivered assignment agreements in substantially the same form as those executed in connection with the TWE Intellectual Property Agreement.
 
Tax Matters Agreement
 
We are party to a tax matters agreement with Time Warner that governs our inclusion in any Time Warner consolidated, combined or unitary group for federal and state tax purposes for taxable periods beginning on and after the date of the TWE Restructuring.
 
Under the tax matters agreement, for each year we are included in the Time Warner consolidated group for federal income tax purposes, we have agreed to make periodic payments, subject to specified adjustments, to Time Warner based on the applicable federal income tax liability that we and our affiliated subsidiaries would have had for each taxable period if we had not been included in the Time Warner consolidated group. Time Warner agreed to reimburse us, subject to specified adjustments, for the use of tax items, such as net operating losses and tax credits attributable to us or an affiliated subsidiary, to the extent that these items are applied to reduce the taxable income of
Table of Contents
a member of the Time Warner consolidated group other than us or one of our subsidiaries. Similar provisions apply to any state income, franchise or other tax returns filed by any Time Warner consolidated, combined or unitary group for each year we are included in such consolidated, combined or unitary group for any state income, franchise or other tax purposes.
 
Under applicable United States Treasury Department regulations, each member of a consolidated group filing consolidated federal income tax returns is severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group. Similar rules apply with respect to members of combined or unitary groups for state tax purposes.
 
If we ceased to be a member of the Time Warner consolidated group for federal income tax purposes, we would continue to have several liability for the federal income tax liability of the Time Warner consolidated group for all taxable years, or portions of taxable years, during which we were a member of the Time Warner consolidated group. In addition, we would have several liability for some state income taxes of groups with which we file or have filed combined or unitary state tax returns. Although Time Warner has indemnified us against this several liability, we would be liable in the event that this federal and/or state liability was incurred but not discharged by Time Warner or any member of the relevant consolidated, combined or unitary group.
 
The description of the tax matters agreement herein does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of the tax matters agreement, which is an exhibit to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
The income tax benefits and provisions, related tax payments, and current and deferred tax balances have been prepared as if we operated as a stand-alone taxpayer for all periods presented in accordance with the tax matters agreement. Income taxes are provided using the liability method required by FASB Statement No. 109, Under this method, income taxes (i.e., deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities, taxes currently payable/refunds receivable and tax expense) are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable in the current year and include the results of any difference between GAAP accounting and tax reporting. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial statement and income tax purposes, as determined under enacted tax laws and rates. The financial effect of changes in tax laws or rates is accounted for in the period of enactment. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we made cash tax payments to Time Warner of approximately $489 million and $496 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we received cash tax refunds, net of cash tax payments, from Time Warner of approximately $58 million.
Accounting for Income Taxes.
 
Other Transactions
 
On December 31, 2003, in conjunction with the restructuring by IVG, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with a subsidiary of Time Warner to purchase all of the outstanding stock of IVG at a purchase price of $7.5 million. IVG was established by Time Warner in 2001 to accelerate the growth of interactive television and to develop certain advanced cable services. Our consolidated financial statements have been restated to include the historical operations of IVG for all periods presented because the transfer of IVG to us was a transfer of assets under common control by Time Warner.
 
For a description of our other partnerships and certain of our joint ventures, see "BusinessOur Operating Partnerships and Joint Ventures" and "Financial InformationManagement's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
Director Independence
 
For information regarding the independent members of our board of directors and board committees, see "Directors and Officers."
Table of Contents
 
 
On May 20, 2006, the America Channel LLC filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota against both us and Comcast alleging that the purchase of Adelphia by Comcast and us will injure competition in the cable system and cable network markets and violate the federal antitrust laws. The lawsuit seeks monetary damages as well as an injunction blocking the Adelphia Acquisition. The United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York issued an order enjoining the America Channel from pursuing injunctive relief in the District of Minnesota and ordering that the America Channel's efforts to enjoin the transaction can only be heard in the Southern District of New York, where the Adelphia bankruptcy is pending. America Channel's appeal of this order was dismissed on October 10, 2006 and its claim for injunctive relief should now be moot. However, America Channel has announced its intention to proceed with its damages case in the District of Minnesota. On September 19, 2006, we filed a motion to dismiss this action, which was granted on January 17, 2007 with leave to replead. On February 5, 2007, the America Channel filed an amended complaint. We intend to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. We are unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On June 22, 2005, Mecklenburg County filed suit against TWE-A/N in the General Court of Justice District Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. Mecklenburg County, the franchisor in TWE-A/N's Mecklenburg County cable system, alleges that TWE-A/N's predecessor failed to construct an institutional network in 1981 and that TWE-A/N assumed that obligation upon the transfer of the franchise in 1995. Mecklenburg County is seeking compensatory damages and TWE-A/N's release of certain video channels it is currently using on the cable system. On April 14, 2006, TWE-A/N filed a motion for summary judgment, which is pending. TWE-A/N intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. We are unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On June 16, 1998, plaintiffs in filed a purported nationwide class action in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York claiming that TWE sold its subscribers' personally identifiable information and failed to inform subscribers of their privacy rights in violation of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 (the "Cable Act") and common law. The plaintiffs sought damages and declaratory and injunctive relief. On August 6, 1998, TWE filed a motion to dismiss, which was denied on September 7, 1999. On December 8, 1999, TWE filed a motion to deny class certification, which was granted on January 9, 2001 with respect to monetary damages, but denied with respect to injunctive relief. On June 2, 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the District Court's decision denying class certification as a matter of law and remanded the case for further proceedings on class certification and other matters. On May 4, 2004, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification, which we have opposed. On October 25, 2005, the court granted preliminary approval of a class settlement arrangement on terms that were not material to us. A final settlement approval hearing was held on May 19, 2006, and on January 26, 2007, the court denied approval of the settlement. We intend to defend against this lawsuit vigorously, but are unable to predict the outcome of the suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
Andrew Parker and Eric DeBrauwere, et al. v. Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. and Time Warner Cable
 
Patent Litigation
 
On September 1, 2006, Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, L.P. filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that we and several other cable operators infringe a number of patents purportedly relating to our customer call center operations, voicemail and/or VOD services. The plaintiff is seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. We intend to defend against the claim vigorously. We are unable to predict the outcome of the suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On July 14, 2006, Hybrid Patents Inc. filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that we and a number of other cable operators infringe several patents purportedly relating to high-speed data and Internet-based phone services. The plaintiff is seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. We intend to defend against the claim vigorously but are unable to predict the outcome of the suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On June 1, 2006, Rembrandt Technologies, LP filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that we and a number of other cable operators infringe several patents purportedly related to a variety of technologies, including high-speed data and Internet-based phone services. In addition, on
Table of Contents
September 13, 2006, Rembrandt Technologies, LP filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that we infringe several patents purportedly related to "high-speed cable modem internet products and services." In each of these cases, the plaintiff is seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. We intend to defend against this lawsuits vigorously. We are unable to predict the outcome of these suits or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On July 14, 2005, Forgent Networks, Inc. ("Forgent") filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that we and a number of other cable operators and direct broadcast satellite operators infringed a patent related to digital video recorder technology. We are working closely with our digital video recorder equipment vendors in defense of this matter, certain of whom have filed a declaratory judgment lawsuit against Forgent alleging the patent cited by Forgent to be non-infringed, invalid and unenforceable. Forgent is seeking monetary damages, ongoing royalties and injunctive relief in its suit against us. We intend to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. We are unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On April 26, 2005, Acacia Media Technologies ("AMT") filed suit against us in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that we infringe several patents held by AMT. AMT has publicly taken the position that delivery of broadcast video (except live programming such as sporting events), VOD and ad insertion services over cable systems infringe its patents. AMT has brought similar actions regarding the same patents against numerous other entities, and all of the previously pending litigations have been made the subject of a multidistrict litigation ("MDL") order consolidating the actions for pretrial activity in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. On October 25, 2005, our action was consolidated into the MDL proceedings. The plaintiff is seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. We intend to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. We are unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
Pay-Per-View,
 
From time to time, we receive notices from third parties claiming that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. In addition, certain agreements that we enter may require us to indemnify the other party for certain third party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our damages and our costs of defending against such claims. Even if the claims are without merit, defending against the claims can be time consuming and costly.
 
As part of the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner agreed to indemnify the cable businesses of TWE from and against any and all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from specified litigation matters brought against TWE's former Non-cable Businesses. Although Time Warner has agreed to indemnify the cable businesses of TWE against such liabilities, TWE remains a named party in certain litigation matters.
 
In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various domestic taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments on us. In instances where we believe that it is probable that we will be assessed, we have accrued a liability. We do not believe that these liabilities are material, individually or in the aggregate, to our financial condition or liquidity. Similarly, we do not expect the final resolution of tax examinations to have a material impact on our financial results.
 
The costs and other effects of pending or future litigation, governmental investigations, legal and administrative cases and proceedings (whether civil or criminal), settlements, judgments and investigations, claims and changes in those matters (including those matters described above), and developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights and intellectual property licenses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.
Table of Contents
 
 
Our Class A common stock has been approved for listing on the NYSE under the symbol TWC and we expect that our Class A common stock will begin trading on the NYSE in late February or early March 2007. Our Class A common stock has recently been trading in the over-the-counter market on a when-issued basis. We expect that our Class A common stock will continue to trade in the over-the-counter market until we are listed on the NYSE.
 
There are no outstanding options or warrants to purchase, or securities convertible into our Class A or Class B common stock.
 
Shares Eligible for Future Sale
 
Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that substantial sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 15, 2006, there were 901,913,430 shares of Class A common stock outstanding and 75,000,000 shares of Class B common stock outstanding. In accordance with Adelphia's plan of reorganization, the shares of our Class A common stock held by Adelphia will be distributed to Adelphia's creditors pursuant to the exemption from the Securities Act provided by section 1145(a) of the Bankruptcy Code. Any shares distributed by Adelphia to its creditors in reliance on the exemption provided by section 1145(a) of the Bankruptcy Code will be freely tradable without restriction or further registration pursuant to the resale provisions of section 1145(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, subject to certain exceptions. Adelphia expects that it will begin distributing the shares of our Class A common stock that it holds to its creditors after the effectiveness of its plan of reorganization, which occurred today. However, in accordance with Adelphia's plan of reorganization, some of the shares of our Class A common stock held by Adelphia will not be distributed for a number of months. Lastly, in accordance with the TWC Purchase Agreement, subject to the existence of any claims, the approximately 6 million shares placed into escrow will be released to Adelphia and subsequently distributed to its creditors on or shortly after July 31, 2007. For more information regarding the distribution of shares of our Class A common stock by Adelphia see "BusinessThe TransactionsThe TWC Purchase Agreement."
 
All shares of common stock, other than those distributed by Adelphia to its creditors in accordance with its plan of reorganization in reliance upon section 1145(a) of the Bankruptcy Code (subject to certain limited exceptions), including shares held by Time Warner, may not be sold unless they are registered under the Securities Act or are sold under an exemption from registration, including an exemption contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act if the holder has complied with the holding period and other requirements of Rule 144 discussed below. Time Warner has demand and piggy-back registration rights with respect to all of the shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock that it or its affiliates own. For more information regarding these registration rights, please see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director IndependenceRelationship between Time Warner and UsTime Warner Registration Rights Agreement."
 
Beginning 90 days after the date hereof, all shares of our Class A common stock held by Time Warner will be eligible for sale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, subject to volume and manner of sale limitations.
 
In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated), who has beneficially owned restricted shares for at least one year, including persons who may be deemed to be our "affiliates," would be entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of:
 
 
Sales under Rule 144 are also subject to certain manner of sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of certain public information about us.
 
Under Rule 144(k), a person who is not deemed to have been one of our "affiliates" at any time during the 90 days preceding a sale, and who has beneficially owned the shares proposed to be sold for at least two years,
Table of Contents
including the holding period of any prior owner other than an "affiliate," is entitled to sell these shares without complying with the manner of sale, public information, volume limitation or notice provisions of Rule 144.
 
We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of restricted shares or the availability of restricted shares for sale will have on the market price of our Class A common stock prevailing from time to time. Nevertheless, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities, as described under "Risk FactorsRisks Factors Relating to Our Class A Common StockA large number of shares of our common stock are or will be eligible for future sale or distribution, which could depress the market price of our Class A common stock."
 
We intend to file a registration statement on to register 100 million shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our 2006 Plan. There are currently no options to purchase our common stock issued and outstanding under our 2006 Plan, which is the only equity plan we have in place.
Form S-8
 
Holders
 
As of December 15, 2006, there were three holders of record of our Class A common stock and one holder of record of our Class B common stock.
 
Dividends
 
We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock over the last two years and currently do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. We expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Our board of directors will determine whether to pay dividends in the future based on conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, as well as economic and other conditions our board may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock is subject to requirements under Delaware law and covenants in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. On July 31, 2006, immediately after the consummation of the Redemptions but prior to the consummation of the Adelphia Acquisition, we paid a stock dividend to WCI, a wholly owned subsidiary of Time Warner and the only holder of record of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock at that time of 999,999 shares of Class A or Class B common stock, as applicable, per share of Class A or Class B common stock. An aggregate of 745,999,254 shares of Class A common stock and 74,999,925 shares of Class B common stock were issued to WCI in connection with the stock dividend. The stock dividend was declared and paid in anticipation of our becoming a public company.
Table of Contents
 
 
On July 31, 2006, immediately after the Redemptions but prior to the Adelphia Acquisition, we declared and paid a stock dividend to WCI of 999,999 shares of Class A or Class B common stock, as applicable, for each share of Class A or Class B common held by WCI, the only holder of record at that time. The dividend did not represent an offer or sale of common stock under the Securities Act.
 
On July 31, 2006, in connection with the Adelphia Acquisition, as partial consideration for the Adelphia Acquisition, we issued ACC 149,765,147 shares of our outstanding Class A common stock and issued 6,148,283 shares of our Class A common stock into escrow. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from the Securities Act provided by section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
Table of Contents
 
 
The following summary of the terms of our capital stock does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the applicable provisions of Delaware law and our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, copies of which are exhibits to this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
 
As of December 15, 2006, there were three holders of record of our Class A common stock and one holder of record of our Class B common stock.
 
Common Stock
 
We are authorized to issue up to 20 billion shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 5 billion shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share. As of December 15, 2006, 901,913,430 shares of our Class A common stock and 75,000,000 shares of our Class B common stock were issued and outstanding. Time Warner currently indirectly holds approximately 84.0% of our outstanding common stock, including 82.7% of our outstanding Class A common stock and all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock.
Common stock authorized and outstanding.  
 
The shares of Class A common stock vote as a separate class with respect to the election of Class A directors. Class A directors must represent between one-sixth and one-fifth of our directors (and in any event no fewer than one). There are currently two Class A directors. The shares of Class B common stock vote as a separate class with respect to the election of Class B directors. Class B directors must represent between four-fifths and five-sixths of our directors. There are currently eight Class B directors. Under our restated certificate of incorporation, the composition of our board of directors must satisfy the applicable requirements of the NYSE and at least 50% of the members of our board of directors must be independent for three years following the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition.
Voting.  
 
Except as described above and otherwise provided by applicable law, each share of Class B common stock issued and outstanding has ten votes on any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders, and each share of Class A common stock issued and outstanding has one vote on any matter submitted to a vote of stockholders. The Class B common stock is not convertible into Class A common stock. The Class A common stock and the Class B common stock will vote together as a single class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders except with respect to the election of directors and except in connection with the matters described below. Time Warner controls approximately 90.6% of the vote in matters where the Class A common stock and the Class B common stock vote together as a single class and 82.7% of the vote of the Class A common stock in any other vote. In addition to any other vote or approval required, the approval of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares of Class A common stock held by persons other than any member of the Time Warner Group will be necessary in connection with:
 
Table of Contents
 
The holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, as, and if declared by our board of directors out of legally available funds. Under our restated certificate of incorporation, dividends may not be declared in respect of Class B common stock unless they are declared in the same amount in respect of shares Class A common stock, and vice versa. With respect to stock dividends, holders of Class B common stock must receive Class B common stock while holders of Class A common stock must receive Class A common stock.
Dividends.  
 
Preferred Stock
 
Under our restated certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue up to 1 billion shares of preferred stock. The board of directors is authorized, subject to limitations prescribed by Delaware law, by our restated certificate of incorporation and by the Shareholder Agreement, to determine the terms and conditions of the preferred stock, including whether the shares of preferred stock will be issued in one or more series, the number of shares to be included in each series and the powers, designations, preferences and rights of the shares. Our board of directors also is authorized to designate any qualifications, limitations or restrictions on the shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock, which could have an adverse impact on the market price of Class A common stock. We have no current plan to issue any shares of preferred stock.
 
Selected Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law
 
Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide that the number of directors constituting our board shall be initially set at six, and then fixed from by our board of directors, subject to the right of holders of any series of preferred stock that we may issue in the future to designate additional directors. Our restated certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. Any vacancy in respect of a director elected by the holders of our Class A Common Stock will be filled by a vote of a majority of the Class A directors then serving and, if there are no Class A directors then serving, by a vote of a majority of all of the directors then serving. Any vacancy in respect of a director elected by the holders of our Class B Common Stock will be filled by a vote of a majority of the Class B directors then serving and, if there are no Class B directors then serving, by a vote of a majority of all of the directors then serving.
Board of Directors.  
time-to-time
 
Any director elected by the holders of our Class A common stock or Class B common stock, as the case may be, may be removed without "cause" by a majority vote of the class of common stock that elected that director at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders, subject to the provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, or by written consent. In addition, any director may be removed for "cause" as provided for under Delaware law. If a director resigns, is removed from office or otherwise is unable to serve, the remaining directors of the same Class will be entitled to replace that director or, if no directors of the same Class are then serving, by a majority of all directors then serving.
 
Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that Time Warner and its affiliates, other than us and our affiliates, which we refer to as the Time Warner Group, and their respective officers, directors and employees do not have a fiduciary duty or any other obligation to share any business opportunities with us and releases all members of the Time Warner Group from any liability that would result from a breach of this kind of obligation. Specifically, our restated certificate of incorporation provides as follows:
Corporate opportunities.  
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Our restated certificate of incorporation also provides that a director of our company who is chairman of the board of directors or chairman of a committee of our board is not deemed to be an officer of our company by reason of holding that position, unless that person is a full-time employee of ours.
 
Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the foregoing provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation described above.
 
In general, section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prevents an interested stockholder, which is defined generally as a person owning 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock, of a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination (as defined therein) for three years following the date that person became an interested stockholder unless various conditions are satisfied. Under our restated certificate of incorporation, we have opted out of the provisions of section 203. Pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement, we have agreed, for so long as Time Warner has the right to elect a majority of our directors, not to become subject to section 203 or to adopt a stockholders' rights plan, in each case without obtaining Time Warner's consent. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director IndependenceRelationship between Time Warner and UsOther Time Warner Rights" for a description of the Shareholder Agreement.
Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law.  
 
Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a director will not be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director.
Directors' liability; indemnification of directors and officers.
 
The inclusion of this provision in our restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors, and may discourage or deter stockholders or us from bringing a lawsuit against our directors for breach of their duty of care, even though such an action, if successful, might benefit us and our stockholders. This provision does not limit or eliminate our rights or those of any stockholder to seek non-monetary relief such as an injunction or rescission in the event of a breach of a director's duty of care. The provisions will not alter the liability of directors under federal securities laws. In addition, our by-laws provide that we will indemnify each director and officer and may indemnify employees and agents, as determined by our board, to the fullest extent provided by the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act may be permitted to directors, officers or persons controlling us under the foregoing provisions, we have been informed that in the opinion of the SEC such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and is therefore unenforceable.
 
For so long as we are an affiliate of Time Warner, our by-laws prohibit us from entering into, extending, renewing or materially amending the terms of any transaction with Time Warner or any of its affiliates unless that transaction is on terms and conditions substantially as favorable to us as we would be able to obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a third party negotiated at the same time. If a transaction described in the preceding sentence is expected to involve $50 million or greater over its term, the transaction must be approved by a majority of our independent directors. In addition, during such period, our by-laws prohibit us from entering into any transaction having the intended effect of benefiting any member of the Time Warner Group in a manner that would deprive us of the benefit we would have otherwise obtained if the transaction were to have been effected on arm's-length terms.
Transactions with or for the benefit of affiliates.  
Table of Contents
Our by-laws provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman, the chief executive officer or by a majority of the members of our board of directors. Subject to the rights of holders of our preferred stock, if any, our stockholders are not permitted to call a special meeting of stockholders, to require that the chairman or chief executive officer call such a special meeting, or to require that the board request the calling of a special meeting of stockholders.
Special meetings of stockholders.  
 
  Our by-laws establish advance notice procedures for:
Advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations.
 
 
Stockholders must notify the corporate secretary in writing prior to the meeting at which the matters are to be acted upon or the directors are to be elected. The notice must contain the information specified in our restated by-laws. To be timely, the notice must be received at our corporate headquarters not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; provided, that for purposes of the first annual meeting of stockholders after July 31, 2006, the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting shall be deemed to be May 15, 2006. If the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days, or delayed by more than 60 days, from the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be received not earlier than the 120th day prior to the annual meeting and not later than the later of the 90th day prior to the annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which we first notify stockholders of the date of the annual meeting, either by mail or other public disclosure. In the case of a special meeting of stockholders called to elect directors, the stockholder notice must be received not earlier than the 90th day prior to the special meeting and not later than the later of the 60th day prior to the special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which we first notify stockholders of the date of the special meeting, either by mail or other public disclosure. These provisions may preclude some stockholders from bringing matters before the stockholders at an annual or special meeting or from nominating candidates for director at an annual or special meeting.
 
Transfer Agent and Registrar
 
The Transfer Agent and Registrar for our Class A common stock is The Bank of New York.
Table of Contents
 
 
Section 145(a) of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides, in general, that a corporation shall have the power to indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, other than an action by or in the right of the corporation, because the person is or was a director or officer of the corporation. Such indemnity may be against expenses, including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by the person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, if the person acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and if, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, the person did not have reasonable cause to believe the person's conduct was unlawful.
Directors' liability; indemnification of directors and officers.  
 
Section 145(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides, in general, that a corporation shall have the power to indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor because the person is or was a director or officer of the corporation, against any expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by the person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if the person acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to be indemnified for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
 
Section 145(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides, in general, that a corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the corporation against any liability asserted against the person in any such capacity, or arising out of the person's status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify the person against such liability under the provisions of the law. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a director will not be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. In addition, our by-laws provide that we will indemnify each director and officer and may indemnify employees and agents, as determined by our board, to the fullest extent provided by the laws of the State of Delaware.
 
The foregoing statements are subject to the detailed provisions of section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws. Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act may be permitted to directors, officers or persons controlling us under the foregoing provisions, we have been informed that in the opinion of the SEC such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and is therefore unenforceable.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Rule 3.05 of Adelphia Communications Corporation's audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 and Adelphia Communications Corporation's unaudited consolidated financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 are included as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Regulation S-X,
 
Pursuant to Rule 3.05 of Comcast Corporation's Audited Special Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas and Cleveland Cable System Operations (a Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation) as of and for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 and the Unaudited Special Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas and Cleveland Cable System Operations (a Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation) as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 are included as exhibits 99.3 and 99.4, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Regulation S-X,
Table of Contents
 
 
The Board of Directors
Time Warner Cable Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Time Warner Cable Inc. ("the Company") as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. Our audits also included the Financial Statement Schedule II listed in the index at Item 9.01(a) for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements and the schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and the schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Time Warner Cable Inc. at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 
As discussed in Notes 1 and 3, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123R, , as of January 1, 2006 using the modified-retrospective application method.
Share-Based Payment
 
As discussed in Note 1, the Company has restated its consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005.
 
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Charlotte, North Carolina
November 2, 2006
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Restatement of Prior Financial Information
 
As previously disclosed by our parent company, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"), the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") had been conducting an investigation into certain accounting and disclosure practices of Time Warner. On March 21, 2005, Time Warner announced that the SEC had approved Time Warner's proposed settlement, which resolved the SEC's investigation of Time Warner. Under the terms of the settlement with the SEC, Time Warner agreed, without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, to be enjoined from future violations of certain provisions of the securities laws and to comply with the order issued by the SEC to AOL LLC (formerly America Online, Inc., "AOL"), a subsidiary of Time Warner, in May 2000. Time Warner also agreed to appoint an independent examiner, who was to either be or hire a certified public accountant. The independent examiner was to review whether Time Warner's historical accounting for certain transactions (as well as any subsequent amendments) with 17 counterparties identified by the SEC staff, principally involving online advertising revenues and including three cable programming affiliation agreements with related online advertising elements, was appropriate, and provide a report to Time Warner's Audit and Finance Committee of its conclusions, originally within 180 days of being engaged. The transactions that were to be reviewed were entered into (or amended) between June 1, 2000 and December 31, 2001, including subsequent amendments thereto, and involved online advertising and related transactions for which the majority of the revenue was recognized by Time Warner before January 1, 2002.
cease-and-desist
 
During the third quarter of 2006, the independent examiner completed his review, in which he concluded that certain of the transactions under review with 15 counterparties, including three cable programming affiliation agreements with advertising elements, had been accounted for improperly because the historical accounting did not reflect the substance of the arrangements. Under the terms of its SEC settlement, Time Warner is required to restate any transactions that the independent examiner determined were accounted for improperly. Accordingly, Time Warner restated its consolidated financial results for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006. The impact of the adjustments is reflected in amendments to Time Warner's Annual Report on Form for the year ended December 31, 2005 and Time Warner's Quarterly Reports on Form for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, each of which was filed with the SEC on September 13, 2006. In addition, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC" or the "Company") restated its consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006. The financial statements presented herein reflect the impact of the adjustments made in the Company's financial results.
10-K
10-Q
 
The three TWC transactions are ones in which TWC entered into cable programming affiliation agreements at the same time it committed to deliver (and did subsequently deliver) network and online advertising services to those same counterparties. Total advertising revenues recognized by TWC under these transactions was approximately $274 million (approximately $134 million in 2001 and approximately $140 million in 2002). Included in the $274 million was $56 million related to operations that have been subsequently classified as discontinued operations. In addition to reversing the recognition of revenue, based on the independent examiner's conclusions, the Company has recorded corresponding reductions in the cable programming costs over the life of the related cable programming affiliation agreements (which range from 10 to 12 years) that were acquired contemporaneously with the execution of the advertising agreements. This has the effect of increasing earnings beginning in 2003 and continuing through future periods.
 
The net effect of restating these transactions is that TWC's net income was reduced by approximately $60 million in 2001 and $61 million in 2002 and was increased by approximately $12 million in each of 2003, 2004 and 2005.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Details of the impact of the restatement in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations are as follows:
 
 
At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the impact of the restatement on Total Assets was a decrease of $25 million and $26 million, respectively, and the impact of the restatement on Total Liabilities was an increase of $60 million and $71 million, respectively. In addition, the impact of the restatement on Attributed Net Assets at December 31, 2002 was due to a decrease in earnings of $121 million. While the restatement resulted in changes in the classification of cash flows within cash provided by operating activities, it has not impacted total cash flows during the periods. Certain of the footnotes which follow have also been restated to reflect the changes described above.
 
Description of Business
 
TWC is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S. (in terms of basic cable subscribers served). TWC has approximately 9.5 million consolidated basic cable subscribers as of December 31, 2005, in highly clustered and technologically upgraded systems in 27 states. Time Warner currently holds a 79% economic interest in TWC's business and the remaining 21% economic interest is held by Comcast Corporation (together with its affiliates,"Comcast"). The financial position and results of operations of TWC are consolidated by Time Warner.
 
TWC principally offers three productsvideo, high-speed data and voice. Video is TWC's largest product in terms of revenues generated; however, the potential growth of its customer base within TWC's existing footprint for video cable service is limited, as the customer base has matured and industry-wide competition has increased. Nevertheless, TWC is continuing to increase its video revenues through rate increases and its offerings of advanced digital video services such as Digital Video, and Digital Video Recorders, which are available throughout TWC's footprint. TWC's digital video subscribers provide a broad base of potential customers for these advanced services. Video programming costs represent a major component of TWC's expenses.
Video-on-Demand,
Subscription-Video-on-Demand
 
High-speed data service has been one of TWC's fastest-growing products over the past several years and is a key driver of its results.
 
TWC's voice product, Digital Phone, first launched in May 2003, was rolled out across TWC's footprint during 2004. As of December 31, 2005, Digital Phone was available to 88% of TWC's homes passed and approximately 900,000 consolidated subscribers received the service. For a monthly fixed fee, Digital Phone customers typically receive unlimited local, in-state and U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico long-distance calling, as well as call waiting, caller ID and enhanced "911" services. In the future, TWC intends to offer additional plans with a variety of local
Table of Contents
 
 
 
and long-distance options. Digital Phone enables TWC to offer its customers a convenient package of video, high-speed data and voice services, and to compete effectively against similar bundled products that are available from its competitors.
 
In addition to the subscription services, TWC also earns revenue by selling advertising time to national, regional and local businesses.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
Summary
 
TWC was formed in March 2003 in connection with the restructuring of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. ("TWE") by Time Warner and Comcast (the "TWE Restructuring"). TWC is the successor to the cable-related businesses previously conducted through TWE and TWI Cable Inc. ("TWI Cable") (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Time Warner). Prior to the TWE Restructuring, both TWE and TWI Cable were consolidated by Time Warner; however, Comcast owned 28% of TWE. In addition to the cable businesses, TWE owned and operated certain non-cable businesses, including Warner Bros., Home Box Office, and TWE's interests in The WB Television Network (which has subsequently ceased operations), Comedy Central (which was subsequently sold) and the Courtroom Television Network (collectively, the "Non-cable Businesses"). As part of the TWE Restructuring, (i) substantially all of TWI Cable and TWE were acquired by TWC, (ii) TWE's Non-cable Businesses were distributed to Time Warner and (iii) Comcast restructured its holding in TWE, the result of which was a decreased ownership interest in TWE and an increased ownership interest in TWC.
 
Subsequent to the TWE Restructuring, Comcast's 21% economic interest in TWC is held through a 17.9% direct common stock ownership interest in TWC (representing a 10.7% voting interest) and a limited partnership interest in TWE (representing a 4.7% residual equity interest). Time Warner's 79% economic interest in TWC is held through an 82.1% direct common stock ownership interest in TWC (representing an 89.3% voting interest) and a limited partnership interest in TWE (representing a 1% residual equity interest). Time Warner also holds a $2.4 billion mandatorily redeemable preferred equity interest in TWE. In connection with the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner effectively increased its economic ownership interest in TWE from approximately 73% to approximately 79%. This acquisition by Time Warner of this additional 6% interest in TWE, as well as the reorganization of Comcast's interest in TWE resulting in a 17.9% interest in TWC, were accounted for at fair value as step acquisitions.
 
The TWC financial statements for all periods prior to the TWE Restructuring represent the combined consolidated financial statements of TWE and TWI Cable (entities under the common control of Time Warner). The financial statements include all push-down accounting adjustments resulting from the merger of AOL and Historic TW Inc. ("Historic TW," formerly named Time Warner Inc.) (the "AOL-Historic TW merger") and treat the economic stake in TWE that was held by Comcast as a minority interest. The operating results of all the Non-cable Businesses of TWE have been reflected as a discontinued operation. Additionally, the income tax provisions, related tax payments, and current and deferred tax balances have been presented as if TWC operated as a stand-alone taxpayer.
 
Capital Structure
 
Prior to the completion of the TWE Restructuring on March 31, 2003, the Company's operations were held in TWE and various other subsidiaries of Time Warner in which TWE did not have any ownership. The TWC financial statements for periods prior to the completion of the TWE Restructuring, however, reflect all assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Company's historical operations. Therefore, the Company's equity for all periods prior to the completion of the TWE Restructuring has been characterized as attributed net assets. As a result of the TWE Restructuring, all of the Company's operations are now held by the legal entity, Time Warner Cable Inc., and its subsidiaries. Therefore, for periods after the TWE Restructuring, the Company's equity is presented in its various components of common stock, paid-in capital, and retained earnings.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
As part of the TWE Restructuring, the Company authorized and issued 925 shares of Class A common stock and 75 shares of Class B common stock on March 31, 2003. Immediately after the closing of the Redemptions but prior to the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition (each as defined in Note 2 below), TWC paid a stock dividend to holders of record of TWC's Class A and Class B common stock of 999,999 shares of Class A or Class B common stock, respectively, per share of Class A or Class B common stock held at that time (refer to Note 2 for discussion of the acquisition of Adelphia). All prior period common share and related per common share information has been recast to reflect the stock dividend. Upon completion of the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner holds, directly or indirectly, 746 million shares of Class A common stock and 75 million shares of Class B common stock. A trust for the benefit of Comcast holds the remaining 179 million shares of Class A common stock. TWC authorized 1,000 shares of preferred stock; however, no preferred shares have been issued, nor does the Company have any current plans to issue any preferred shares.
 
Each share of Class A common stock votes as a single class with respect to the election of Class A directors, which are required to represent not less than one-sixth of the Company's directors and not more than one-fifth of the Company's directors. Each share of the Company's Class B common stock votes as a single class with respect to the election of Class B directors, which are required to represent not less than four-fifths of the Company's directors. Each share of Class B common stock issued and outstanding generally has ten votes on any matter submitted to a vote of the stockholders, and each share of Class A common stock issued and outstanding has one vote on any matter submitted to a vote of stockholders. Except for the voting rights characteristics described above, there are no differences between the Class A and Class B common stock. The Class A common stock and the Class B common stock will generally vote together as a single class on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders except with respect to the election of directors. The Class B common stock is not convertible into the Company's Class A common stock. As a result of its shareholdings, Time Warner has the ability to cause the election of all Class A and Class B directors.
 
For a description of Comcast's rights with respect to its shares of Class A common stock, see "Amendments of Existing Arrangements" in Note 2.
 
Basis of Consolidation
 
The consolidated financial statements of TWC include 100% of the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, income, loss and cash flows of all companies in which TWC has a controlling voting interest as well as allocations of certain Time Warner corporate costs deemed reasonable by management to present the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position, changes in equity and cash flows on a stand-alone basis. The consolidated financial statements include the results of Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership only for the systems that are controlled by TWC and for which TWC holds an economic interest. The Time Warner corporate costs include specified administrative services, including selected tax, human resources, legal, information technology, treasury, financial, public policy and corporate and investor relations services, and approximate Time Warner's estimated overhead cost for services rendered. Intercompany transactions between the consolidated companies have been eliminated.
("TWE-A/N")
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior years' financial information to conform to the December 31, 2005 presentation.
 
Changes in Basis of Presentation
 
The 2005 financial statements have been recast so that the basis of presentation is consistent with that of 2006. Specifically, the amounts have been recast for the effect of a stock dividend discussed above, the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 123 (revised 2004),
Share-Based Payment
Table of Contents
 
 
 
("FAS 123R") and the presentation of cable systems transferred to Comcast in the Redemptions and Urban Cable systems transferred in the Exchange (all as defined below) as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Refer to Notes 2 and 3 for discussion of impact.
 
 
Adelphia Acquisition and Related Transactions
 
On July 31, 2006, Time Warner NY Cable LLC ("TW NY") and Comcast completed their respective acquisitions of assets comprising in the aggregate substantially all of the cable systems of Adelphia Communications Corporation ("Adelphia") (the "Adelphia Acquisition").
 
On July 31, 2006, immediately before the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, Comcast's interests in TWC and TWE, a subsidiary of TWC, were redeemed. Specifically, Comcast's 17.9% interest in TWC was redeemed in exchange for 100% of the capital stock of a subsidiary of TWC holding both cable systems serving approximately 589,000 subscribers, with an estimated fair value of approximately $2.470 billion, as determined by management using a discounted cash flow and market comparable valuation model, and approximately $1.857 billion in cash (the "TWC Redemption"). In addition, Comcast's 4.7% interest in TWE was redeemed in exchange for 100% of the equity interests in a subsidiary of TWE holding both cable systems serving approximately 162,000 subscribers, with an estimated fair value of approximately $630 million, as determined by management using a discounted cash flow and market comparable valuation model, and approximately $147 million in cash (the "TWE Redemption" and, together with the TWC Redemption, the "Redemptions"). The discounted cash flow valuation model was based upon the Company's estimated future cash flows derived from its business plan and utilized a discount rate consistent with the inherent risk in the business. For accounting purposes, the Redemptions were treated as an acquisition of Comcast's minority interests in TWC and TWE and a sale of the cable systems that were transferred to Comcast. The sale of the cable systems resulted in an after-tax gain of $930 million, which is comprised of a $113 million pretax gain (calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the systems acquired by Comcast in the Redemptions totaling $2.987 billion and the estimated fair value of $3.100 billion) and the net reversal of deferred tax liabilities of approximately $817 million. These deferred tax liabilities had been established on systems transferred to Comcast in the TWC Redemption. The TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and as a result, such liabilities were no longer required. However, if the IRS were to succeed in challenging the tax-free characterization of the TWC Redemption, an additional cash tax liability of up to an estimated $900 million could result.
 
Following the Adelphia Acquisition, on July 31, 2006, TW NY and subsidiaries of Comcast also exchanged certain cable systems to enhance the respective geographic clusters of subscribers of TWC and Comcast (the "Exchange"). The Exchange was accounted for as a purchase of cable systems from Comcast and a sale of TW NY's cable systems to Comcast. The systems exchanged by TW NY included Urban Cable Works of Philadelphia, L.P. ("Urban Cable") and certain systems acquired from Adelphia. The Company did not record a gain or loss on systems TW NY acquired from Adelphia and transferred to Comcast in the Exchange because such systems were recorded at fair value in the Adelphia Acquisition. The Company did, however, record a pretax gain of $32 million ($19 million net of tax) in the third quarter of 2006 on the Exchange related to the disposition of Urban Cable.
 
The systems transferred in connection with the Redemptions and the Exchange (the "Transferred Systems") have been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for all
Table of Contents
 
 
 
periods presented. Financial data for the Transferred Systems included in discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Amendments to Existing Arrangements
 
In addition to entering into the agreements relating to the Transactions described above, in April 2005, TWC and Comcast amended certain pre-existing agreements. The objective of these amendments is to terminate these agreements contingent upon the completion of the transactions provided for in the agreements entered into in connection with the TWC Redemption (the "TWC Redemption Agreement") and the TWE Redemption (the "TWE Redemption Agreement," and together with the TWC Redemption Agreement, the "TWC and TWE Redemption Agreements"). The following brief description of these agreements does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the provisions of such arrangements.
 
  In conjunction with the TWE Restructuring, TWC granted Comcast and certain affiliates registration rights related to the shares of TWC Class A common stock acquired by Comcast in the TWE Restructuring. In connection with the entry into the TWC Redemption Agreement, Comcast generally has agreed not to exercise or pursue registration rights with respect to the TWC Class A common stock owned by it until the earlier of the date upon which the TWC Redemption Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms and the date upon which TWC's offering of equity securities to the public for cash for its own account in one or more transactions registered under the Securities Act of 1933 exceeds $2.1 billion. TWC does, however, have an obligation to file a shelf registration statement on June 1, 2006, covering all of the shares of the TWC Class A common stock if the TWC Redemption has not occurred as of such date.
Registration Rights Agreement.
 
  On April 20, 2005, a subsidiary of TWC, Comcast and certain of its affiliates entered into an amendment (the "Second Tolling Amendment") to the Tolling and Optional Redemption Agreement, dated as of September 24, 2004, as amended, pursuant to which the parties agreed that if both the TWC and TWE Redemption Agreements terminate, TWC will redeem 23.8% of Comcast's 17.9% ownership of TWC Class A common stock in exchange for 100% of the common stock of a TWC subsidiary that will own certain cable systems serving approximately 148,000 basic subscribers (as of December 31, 2004) plus approximately $422 million in cash. In addition, on May 31, 2005, a subsidiary of TWC, Comcast and certain of its affiliates entered into the Alternate Tolling and Optional Redemption Agreement (the "Alternate Tolling Amendment"). Pursuant to the Alternate Tolling Amendment, the parties have agreed that if the TWC Redemption Agreement terminates, but the TWE Redemption Agreement is not terminated, TWC will redeem 23.8% of Comcast's 17.9% ownership of TWC Class A common stock in exchange for 100% of the common stock of a TWC subsidiary which will own certain cable systems serving approximately 148,000 basic subscribers (as of December 31, 2004) plus approximately $422 million in cash.
Tolling and Optional Redemption Agreement.
 
Upon entering into the Tolling and Optional Redemption Agreement on September 24, 2004, the Company reclassified the fair value of its Class A common stock subject to the Comcast option ($1.065 billion) from shareholders' equity to mandatorily redeemable Class A common stock. The Second Tolling Amendment reduced the amount of Class A common stock that is subject to the Comcast option from 27% to 23.8% of Comcast's 17.9% ownership of TWC Class A common stock. As a result of this modification, the Company reclassified a portion of its mandatorily redeemable Class A common stock ($81 million) to shareholders' equity in the second quarter of 2005.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Urban Cable Works of Philadelphia, L.P.
 
On November 22, 2005, TWC purchased the remaining 60% interest in Urban Cable, an operator of cable systems in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, with approximately 47,000 basic subscribers. The purchase price consisted of $51 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and the assumption of $44 million of Urban Cable's third-party debt. Prior to TWC's acquisition of the remaining interest, Urban Cable was an unconsolidated joint venture, which was 40% owned by TWC and 60% owned by an investment group led by Inner City Broadcasting ("Inner City"). Under a management agreement, TWC was responsible for the management of Urban Cable. During 2004, TWC made cash payments of $34 million to Inner City to settle certain disputes regarding the joint venture. TWC recorded this settlement payment within selling, general and administrative expenses in 2004. As discussed above, the Urban Cable systems were transferred to Comcast as part of the Exchange. The Company has reflected the operations of Urban Cable as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
day-to-day
 
Income Tax Changes
 
During 2005, TWC's tax provision was impacted favorably by state tax law changes in Ohio, an ownership restructuring in Texas and certain other methodology changes. The state law changes in Ohio relate to the changes in the method of taxation as the income tax is being phased-out and replaced with a gross receipts tax. These tax law changes resulted in a reduction in certain deferred tax liabilities related to Ohio. Accordingly, the Company has recognized these reductions as noncash tax benefits totaling approximately $205 million in 2005. In addition, an ownership restructuring of the Company's partnership interests in Texas and certain methodology changes resulted in a reduction of deferred state tax liabilities. The Company has also recognized this reduction as a noncash tax benefit of approximately $174 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
 
Joint Venture Restructuring
 
On May 1, 2004, the Company completed the restructuring of two joint ventures that it manages, Kansas City Cable Partners ("KCCP"), previously a 50-50 joint venture between Comcast and TWE serving approximately 297,000 basic video subscribers as of December 31, 2005, and Texas Cable Partners, L.P. ("TCP"), previously a joint venture between Comcast and TWE-A/N, a subsidiary of TWE, serving approximately 1.3 million subscribers as of December 31, 2005. Prior to the restructuring, the Company accounted for its investment in these joint ventures using the equity method. Under the restructuring, KCCP was merged into TCP, which was renamed "Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P." ("TKCCP"). Following the restructuring, the combined partnership was owned 50% by Comcast and 50% collectively by TWE and TWE-A/N. In February 2005, TWE's interest in the combined partnership was contributed to TWE-A/N in exchange for preferred equity in TWE-A/N. Since the net assets of the combined partnership were owned 50% by TWC and 50% by Comcast both before and after the restructuring and there were no changes in the rights or economic interests of either party, the Company viewed the transaction as a non-substantive reorganization to be accounted for at book value, similar to the transfer of assets under common control. The Company continued to account for its investment in the restructured joint venture using the equity method. Beginning on June 1, 2006, either TWC or Comcast could trigger a dissolution of the partnership. If a dissolution was triggered, the non-triggering party had the right to choose and take full ownership of one of two pools of the combined partnership's systemsone pool consisting of the Houston systems and the other consisting of the Kansas City, south and west Texas and New Mexico systems (collectively, the "Kansas City Pool")with an arrangement to distribute the partnership's debt between the two pools. The party triggering the dissolution would own the remaining pool of systems and any debt associated with that pool.
50-50
 
In conjunction with the Adelphia Acquisition, TWC and Comcast agreed that if the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange occur and if Comcast received the pool of assets consisting of the Kansas City Pool upon distribution of the TKCCP assets as described above, Comcast would have an option, exercisable for 180 days commencing one year after the date of such distribution, to require TWC or a subsidiary to transfer to Comcast, in exchange for the south and west Texas and New Mexico systems, certain cable systems held by TWE and its subsidiaries.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
In accordance with the terms of the TKCCP partnership agreement, on July 3, 2006, Comcast notified TWC of its election to trigger the dissolution of the partnership and its decision to allocate all of TKCCP's debt, which totaled approximately $2 billion, to the pool of assets consisting of the Houston cable systems. On August 1, 2006, TWC notified Comcast of its election to receive the Kansas City Pool. On October 2, 2006, TWC received approximately $630 million from Comcast due to the repayment of debt owed by TKCCP to TWE-A/N that had been allocated to the Houston cable systems. Since July 1, 2006, TWC has been entitled to 100% of the economic interest in the Kansas City Pool (and recognizes such interest pursuant to the equity method of accounting), and was no longer entitled to any economic benefits of ownership from the Houston cable systems.
 
On January 1, 2007, TKCCP distributed its assets to its partners. TWC received the Kansas City Pool, which served approximately 782,000 basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006, and Comcast received the pool of assets consisting of the Houston cable systems, which served approximately 791,000 basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006. TWC began consolidating the results of the Kansas City Pool on January 1, 2007. As a result of the asset distribution, TWC no longer has an economic interest in TKCCP. It is expected that the entity will be formally dissolved in 2007.
 
 
Cash and Equivalents
 
Cash and equivalents include money market funds, overnight deposits and other investments that are readily convertible into cash and have original maturities of three months or less. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value.
 
Accounting for Investments
 
Investments in companies in which TWC has significant influence, but less than a controlling voting interest, are accounted for using the equity method. Significant influence is generally presumed to exist when TWC owns between 20% and 50% of the investee. The effect of any changes in TWC ownership interests resulting from the issuance of capital by consolidated subsidiaries or unconsolidated cable television system joint ventures to unaffiliated parties is included as an adjustment to shareholders' equity or attributed net assets (for periods prior to the TWE Restructuring).
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The Company incurs expenditures associated with the construction of its cable systems. Costs associated with the construction of the cable transmission and distribution facilities and new cable service installations are capitalized. With respect to certain customer premise equipment, which includes converters and cable modems, TWC capitalizes installation charges only upon the initial deployment of these assets. All costs incurred in subsequent disconnects and reconnects are expensed as incurred. Depreciation on these assets is provided, generally using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives.
 
TWC uses product-specific and, in the case of customers who have multiple products installed at once, bundle-specific standard costing models to capitalize installation activities. Significant judgment is involved in the development of these costing models, including the average time required to perform an installation and the determination of the nature and amount of indirect costs to be capitalized. Additionally, the development of standard costing models for new products such as Digital Phone involve more estimates than the standard costing models for established products because the Company has less historical data related to the installation of new products. The standard costing models are reviewed annually and adjusted prospectively, if necessary, based on comparisons to actual costs incurred.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
TWC generally capitalizes expenditures for tangible fixed assets having a useful life of greater than one year. Capitalized costs include direct material, direct labor, overhead and interest. Sales and marketing costs, as well as the costs of repairing or maintaining existing fixed assets, are expensed as incurred. Common types of capitalized expenditures include plant upgrades, drops (i.e., customer installations), converters and cable and phone modems.
 
Property, plant and equipment consist of:
 
 
 
Asset Retirement Obligations
 
FASB Statement No. 143, , requires that a liability be recognized for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The Company has certain franchise and lease agreements containing provisions requiring the Company to restore facilities or remove equipment in the event the agreement is not renewed. The Company anticipates that these agreements will be renewed on an ongoing basis; however, a remote possibility exists that such agreements could be terminated unexpectedly, which could result in the Company incurring significant expense in complying with such agreements. Should a franchise or lease agreement containing a provision referenced above be terminated, the Company would record an estimated liability for the fair value of the restoration and removal expense. As of December 31, 2005, no such liabilities have been recorded as the franchise and lease agreements are expected to be renewed and any costs associated with equipment removal provisions in the Company's lease agreements are either not estimable or are immaterial to the Company's results of operations.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
Intangible Assets
 
TWC has a significant number of intangible assets, including customer relationships and cable franchises. Customer relationships and cable franchises acquired in business combinations are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and are recorded at fair value on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. Other costs incurred to negotiate and renew cable franchise agreements are capitalized as incurred. Subscriber lists acquired are amortized over their estimated useful life (4 years) and other costs incurred to negotiate and renew cable franchise agreements are amortized over the term of such franchise agreements.
 
Asset Impairments
 
Investments
 
TWC's investments are primarily accounted for using the equity method of accounting. A subjective aspect of accounting for investments involves determining whether an decline in value of the
other-than-temporary
Table of Contents
 
 
 
investment has been sustained. If it has been determined that an investment has sustained an decline in its value, the investment is written down to its fair value by a charge to earnings. This evaluation is dependent on the specific facts and circumstances. For investments accounted for using the cost or equity method of accounting, TWC evaluates information including budgets, business plans and financial statements in determining whether an decline in value exists. Factors indicative of an decline include recurring operating losses, credit defaults and subsequent rounds of financings at an amount below the cost basis of the investment. This list is not all-inclusive and the Company's management weighs all quantitative and qualitative factors in determining if an decline in value of an investment has occurred.
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
 
Long-Lived Assets
 
Long-lived assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining the extent of an impairment, if any, typically requires various estimates and assumptions including cash flows directly attributable to the asset, the useful life of the asset and residual value, if any. When necessary, internal cash flow estimates, quoted market prices and appraisals are used as appropriate to determine fair value.
 
Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
 
Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, primarily certain franchise assets, are tested annually as of December 31 and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose of the unit. Estimating fair value is performed by utilizing various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being a discounted cash flow. The use of a discounted cash flow model often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. For more information, see Note 6.
 
Computer Software
 
TWC capitalizes certain costs incurred for the development of internal use software. These costs, which include the costs associated with coding, software configuration, upgrades and major enhancements, are included in property, plant and equipment in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Such costs are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 3 to 5 years. These costs, net of accumulated depreciation, totaled $280 million and $190 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Amortization of capitalized software costs was $54 million in 2005, $53 million in 2004 and $40 million in 2003.
 
Accounting for Pension Plans
 
TWC has defined benefit pension plans covering a majority of its employees. Pension benefits are based on formulas that reflect the employees' years of service and compensation during their employment period and participation in the plans. The pension expense recognized by the Company is determined using certain assumptions, including the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rate of compensation increases. The determination of these assumptions is discussed in more detail in Note 11.
 
Revenues and Costs
 
Cable revenues are principally derived from video, high-speed data and Digital Phone subscriber fees and advertising. Subscriber fees are recorded as revenue in the period the service is provided. Subscription revenues received from subscribers who purchase bundled services at a discounted rate are allocated to each product in a pro-rata manner based on the individual product's determined fair value. Installation revenues obtained from subscriber service connections are recognized in accordance with FASB Statement No. 51, , as a component of Subscription revenues as the connections are completed since installation
Financial Reporting by Television Cable Companies
Table of Contents
 
 
 
revenues recognized are less than the related direct selling costs. Advertising revenues, including those from advertising purchased by programmers, are recognized in the period that the advertisements are exhibited.
 
Video programming, high-speed data and Digital Phone costs are recorded as the services are provided. Video programming costs are based on the Company's contractual agreements with its programming vendors. These contracts are generally multi-year agreements that provide for the Company to make payments to the programming vendors at agreed upon rates based on the number of subscribers to which the Company provides the service. If a programming contract expires prior to entering into a new agreement, management is required to estimate the programming costs during the period there is no contract in place. Management considers the previous contractual rates, inflation and the status of the negotiations in determining its estimates. When the programming contract terms are finalized, an adjustment to programming expense is recorded, if necessary, to reflect the terms of the new contract. Management must also make estimates in the recognition of programming expense related to other items, such as the accounting for free periods, "most-favored-nation" clauses and service interruptions.
 
Launch fees received by the Company from programming vendors are recognized as a reduction of expense on a straight-line basis over the life of the related programming arrangement. Amounts received from programming vendors representing the reimbursement of marketing costs are recognized as a reduction of marketing expenses as the marketing services are provided.
 
Advertising costs are expensed upon the first exhibition of related advertisements. Marketing expense (including advertising), net of reimbursements from programmers, was $306 million in 2005, $272 million in 2004 and $229 million in 2003.
 
Gross Versus Net Revenue Recognition
 
In the normal course of business, TWC acts as an intermediary or agent with respect to payments received from third parties. For example, TWC collects taxes on behalf of franchising authorities. The accounting issue encountered in these arrangements is whether TWC should report revenue based on the gross amount billed to the ultimate customer or on the net amount received from the customer after payments to franchising authorities. The Company has determined that these amounts should be reported on a gross basis.
 
Determining whether revenue should be reported gross or net is based on an assessment of whether TWC is acting as the principal in a transaction or acting as an agent in a transaction. To the extent TWC acts as a principal in a transaction, TWC reports as revenue the payments received on a gross basis. To the extent TWC acts as an agent in a transaction, TWC reports as revenue the payments received less commissions and other payments to third parties on a net basis. The determination of whether TWC serves as principal or agent in a transaction involves judgment and is based on an evaluation of the terms of an arrangement. In determining whether TWC serves as principal or agent in these arrangements, TWC follows the guidance in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue
No. 99-19,
Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent.
 
Multiple-element Transactions
 
Multiple-element transactions involve situations where judgment must be exercised in determining fair value of the different elements in a bundled transaction. As the term is used here, multiple-element arrangements can involve:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
  In the normal course of business, TWC enters into multiple-element transactions where the Company is simultaneously both a customer and a vendor with the same counterparty. For example, when negotiating the terms of programming purchase contracts with cable networks, TWC may at the same time negotiate for the sale of advertising to the same cable network. Arrangements, although negotiated contemporaneously, may be documented in one or more contracts. In accounting for such arrangements, the Company looks to the guidance contained in the following authoritative literature:
Contemporaneous purchases and sales.
 
 
The Company's policy for accounting for each transaction negotiated contemporaneously is to record each element of the transaction based on the respective estimated fair values of the goods or services purchased and the goods or services sold. The judgments made in determining fair value in such arrangements impact the amount and period in which revenues, expenses and net income are recognized over the term of the contract. In determining the fair value of the respective elements, the Company refers to quoted market prices (where available), historical transactions or comparable cash transactions. The most frequent transactions of this type encountered by the Company involve funds received from the Company's vendors which are accounted for in accordance with EITF 02-16. The Company records cash consideration received from a vendor as a reduction in the price of the vendor's product unless (i) the consideration is for the reimbursement of a specific, incremental, identifiable cost incurred in which case the Company would record the cash consideration received as a reduction in such cost or (ii) the Company is providing an identifiable benefit in exchange for the consideration in which case the Company recognizes revenue for this element.
 
With respect to programming vendor advertising arrangements being negotiated simultaneously with the same cable network, TWC assesses whether each piece of the arrangements is at fair value. The factors that are considered in determining the individual fair values of the programming and advertising vary from arrangement to arrangement and include:
 
 
  The Company's policy for revenue recognition in instances where multiple deliverables are sold contemporaneously to the same counterparty is in accordance with EITF Issue , and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Specifically, if the Company enters into sales contracts for the sale of multiple products or services, then the Company evaluates whether it has objective fair value evidence for each deliverable in the
Sales of multiple products or services.
No. 00-21,
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables
Revenue Recognition.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
transaction. If the Company has objective fair value evidence for each deliverable of the transaction, then it accounts for each deliverable in the transaction separately, based on the relevant revenue recognition accounting policies. However, if the Company is unable to determine objective fair value for one or more undelivered elements of the transaction, the Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. For example, the Company sells cable, Digital Phone and high-speed data services to subscribers in a bundled package at a rate lower than if the subscriber purchases each product on an individual basis. Subscription revenues received from such subscribers are allocated to each product in a pro-rata manner based on the fair value of each of the respective services.
 
  The Company's policy for cost recognition in instances where multiple products or services are purchased contemporaneously from the same counterparty is consistent with its policy for the sale of multiple deliverables to a customer. Specifically, if the Company enters into a contract for the purchase of multiple products or services, the Company evaluates whether it has fair value evidence for each product or service being purchased. If the Company has fair value evidence for each product or service being purchased, it accounts for each separately, based on the relevant cost recognition accounting policies. However, if the Company is unable to determine fair value for one or more of the purchased elements, the Company generally recognizes the cost of the transaction on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement.
Purchases of multiple products or services.
 
This policy would also apply in instances where the Company settles a dispute at the same time the Company purchases a product or service from that same counterparty. For example, the Company may settle a dispute on an existing programming contract with a programming vendor at the same time that it is renegotiating a new programming contract with the same programming vendor. Because the Company is negotiating both the settlement of the dispute and a new programming contract, each of these elements should be accounted for at fair value. The amount allocated to the settlement of the dispute would be recognized immediately, whereas the amount allocated to the new programming contract would be accounted for prospectively, consistent with the accounting for other similar programming agreements.
 
Income Taxes
 
TWC is not a separate taxable entity for U.S. federal and various state income tax purposes and its results are included in the consolidated U.S. federal and certain state income tax returns of Time Warner. The income tax benefits and provisions, related tax payments, and current and deferred tax balances have been prepared as if TWC operated as a stand-alone taxpayer for all periods presented in accordance with the tax sharing arrangement between TWC and Time Warner. Under the tax sharing arrangement, TWC is obligated to make tax sharing payments to Time Warner as if it were a separate payer. Income taxes are provided using the liability method required by FASB Statement No. 109, Under this method, income taxes (i.e., deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities, taxes currently payable/refunds receivable and tax expense) are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable in the current year and include the results of any difference between U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") accounting and tax reporting. Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial statement and income tax purposes, as determined under enacted tax laws and rates. The financial effect of changes in tax laws or rates is accounted for in the period of enactment.
Accounting for Income Taxes.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2003, the Company made cash tax payments to Time Warner of $496 million and $208 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company received cash tax refunds, net of cash tax payments, from Time Warner of $58 million.
 
Comprehensive Income (Loss)
 
Comprehensive income (loss), which is reported on the accompanying consolidated statement of shareholders' equity (or attributed net assets for periods prior to the TWE Restructuring) consists of net income (loss) and other
Table of Contents
 
 
 
gains and losses affecting shareholders' equity or attributed net assets that, under GAAP, are excluded from net income (loss). For TWC, the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consist of unrealized gains and losses on marketable equity investments and any minimum pension liability adjustments. In addition, prior to the TWE Restructuring, comprehensive income (loss) included foreign currency translation gains and losses (related to discontinued operations) and gains and losses on certain equity derivative financial instruments (related to discontinued operations).
 
The following summary sets forth the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
 
 
Stock-based Compensation
 
TWC employees participate in various Time Warner stock option plans. The Company has adopted the provisions of FAS 123R, as of January 1, 2006. The provisions of FAS 123R require a company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost is recognized in the statement of operations over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. FAS 123R also amends FASB Statement No. 95, to require that excess tax benefits, as defined, realized from the exercise of stock options be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid in cash flow from operations.
Statement of Cash Flows,
 
Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, the Company had followed the provisions of FASB Statement No. 123, ("FAS 123"), which allowed the Company to follow the intrinsic value method set forth in APB Opinion No. 25, , and disclose the pro forma effects on net income (loss) had the fair value of the equity awards been expensed. In connection with adopting FAS 123R, the Company elected to adopt the modified retrospective application method provided by FAS 123R and, accordingly, financial statement amounts for all prior periods presented herein reflect results as if the fair value method of expensing had been applied from the original effective date of FAS 123. The following tables set forth the increase (decrease) to the Company's consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheets as a result of the adoption of FAS 123R for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (in millions, except per share data):
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, for disclosure purposes, the Company recognized stock-based compensation expense for awards with graded vesting by treating each vesting tranche as a separate award and recognizing compensation expense ratably for each tranche. For equity awards granted subsequent to the adoption of FAS 123R, the Company treats such awards as a single award and recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee service period. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in costs of revenues or selling, general and administrative expense depending on the employee's job function.
 
Additionally, when recording compensation cost for equity awards, FAS 123R requires companies to estimate the number of equity awards granted that are expected to be forfeited. Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, for disclosure purposes, the Company recognized forfeitures when they occurred, rather than using an estimate at the grant date and subsequently adjusting the estimated forfeitures to reflect actual forfeitures.
 
Income per Common Share
 
Income per common share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average of common shares outstanding during the period. Weighted average common shares include shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. TWC does not have any dilutive or potentially dilutive securities or other obligations to issue common stock.
 
Segments
 
FASB Statement No. 131, requires public companies to disclose certain information about their reportable operating segments. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is available and is evaluated on a regular basis by the chief operating decision makers in deciding how to allocate resources to an individual segment and in assessing performance of the segment. Since the Company's continuing operations provide its services over the same delivery system, the Company has only one reportable segment.
Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates are used when accounting for certain items such as allowances for doubtful accounts, investments, programming agreements, depreciation, amortization, asset impairment, income taxes, pensions, business combinations, nonmonetary transactions and contingencies. Allocation methodologies used to prepare the accompanying consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and have been described in the notes, where appropriate.
 
 
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations
 
In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, ("FIN 47"). FIN 47 clarifies the timing of liability
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligationsan Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143
Table of Contents
 
 
 
recognition for legal obligations associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset when the timing method of settlement are conditional on a future event. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 47 during 2005. The application of FIN 47 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
and/or
 
Use of Residual Method in Fair Value Determinations
 
In September 2004, the EITF issued Topic ("Topic Topic D-108 requires that the direct value method, rather than the residual value method, be used to value intangible assets other than goodwill for such assets acquired in business combinations completed after September 29, 2004. Under the residual value method, the fair value of the intangible asset is determined to be the difference between the enterprise value and the fair value of separately identifiable assets; whereas, under the direct value method, all intangible assets are valued separately and directly. Topic D-108 also requires that companies who have applied the residual method to the valuation of intangible assets for purposes of impairment testing shall perform an impairment test using the direct value method on all intangible assets. Previously, the Company had used a residual value methodology to value cable franchise intangible assets. Pursuant to the provisions of Topic the income methodology used to value cable franchises entails identifying the discrete cash flows related to such franchises and discounting them back to the valuation date. The provisions of Topic did not affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
No. D-108,
Use of the Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other than Goodwill
D-108").
D-108,
D-108
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred non-capitalizable merger-related costs of approximately $8 million related to consulting fees covering integration planning for the Adelphia Acquisition. As of December 31, 2005, payments of $4 million have been made against this accrual. The remaining $4 million is classified as a current liability in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred restructuring costs of $34 million primarily associated with the early retirement of certain senior executives and terminations due to the closure of certain news channels. These charges are part of TWC's broader plans to simplify its organizational structure and enhance its customer focus. TWC is in the process of executing this initiative and expects to incur additional costs associated with the plan as it is implemented in 2006. As of December 31, 2005, payments of approximately $8 million have been made against this accrual. Approximately $11 million of the total $26 million liability is classified as a current liability, with the remaining $15 million classified as a long-term liability in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as certain amounts are expected to be paid through 2011.
 
Information relating to the 2005 restructuring costs is as follows (in millions):
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company incurred restructuring costs of $15 million associated with the termination of certain employees of Time Warner's former Interactive Video Group Inc. operations. All costs associated with this restructuring activity have been paid as of December 31, 2005.
 
 
FASB Statement No. 142, , requires that goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite useful life be reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is to identify a potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. The Company has identified six reporting units based on the geographic locations of its systems. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit are determined using various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires one to make various judgmental assumptions including assumptions about future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on TWC's budget and business plan and assumptions are made about the perpetual growth rate for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting units. In estimating the fair values of its reporting units, the Company also uses research analyst estimates, as well as comparable market analyses. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not deemed to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not performed. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In other words, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit.
 
The impairment test for other intangible assets not subject to amortization consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. The Company has identified six units of accounting based upon geographic location of its systems in performing its testing. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair value of intangible assets not subject to amortization are determined using various discounted cash flow valuation methodologies. The methodology used to value the cable franchises entails identifying the projected discrete cash flows related to such franchises and discounting them back to the valuation date. Significant assumptions inherent in the methodologies employed include estimates of discount rates. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the respective intangible assets.
 
The Company determined during its annual impairment reviews for goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization, which occur in the fourth quarter, that no additional impairments existed at December 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company's other intangible assets and related accumulated amortization included the following (restated, in millions):
 
 
The Company recorded amortization expense of $72 million in each of 2005 and 2004, and $53 million in 2003. Based on the current amount of intangible assets subject to amortization, the estimated amortization expense for the succeeding five years is: $74 million in 2006, $27 million in 2007, $10 million in 2008, $7 million in 2009 and $5 million in 2010. As acquisitions and dispositions occur in the future and as purchase price allocations are finalized, these amounts may vary.
 
 
The Company had investments of $1.967 billion and $1.938 billion as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. These investments are comprised almost entirely of equity method investees.
 
At December 31, 2005, investments accounted for using the equity method primarily consisted of TKCCP (50% owned, approximately 1.557 million subscribers at December 31, 2005).
 
At December 31, 2004, investments accounted for using the equity method primarily included: TKCCP (50% owned, approximately 1.519 million subscribers at December 31, 2004) and Urban Cable (40% owned, approximately 50,000 subscribers at December 31, 2004).
 
At December 31, 2003, investments accounted for using the equity method primarily included: TCP (50% owned, approximately 1.214 million subscribers), KCCP (50% owned, approximately 304,000 subscribers), and Urban Cable (40% owned, approximately 55,000 subscribers).
Table of Contents
 
 
 
A summary of financial information as reported by these equity investees is presented below (all periods presented exclude the results of Urban Cable, which was consolidated in 2005 and was transferred to Comcast in the Exchange):
 
 
At December 31, 2005, the Company's recorded investments in equity method investees were greater than the underlying net assets of the equity method investees by approximately $1.7 billion. This difference was primarily attributable to the fair value adjustments (primarily related to other intangible assets not subject to amortization) recorded by TWC in conjunction with the AOL-Historic TW merger.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
TWC's outstanding debt as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 includes the following components:
 
 
 
 
In connection with the July 31, 2006 Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions, TWC's debt under its bank credit agreements and commercial paper program increased to $11.3 billion at September 30, 2006.
 
Bank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs
 
As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, TWC and TWE were borrowers under a $4.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit agreement and maintained unsecured commercial paper programs of $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, which were supported by unused capacity under the credit facility. In the first quarter of 2006, the Company entered into $14.0 billion of new bank credit agreements, which refinanced $4.0 billion of previously existing committed bank financing, and provided additional commitments to finance, in part, the cash portions of the payments to be made in the pending Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions. As discussed below, the increased commitments became available concurrently with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition.
 
Following the financing transactions described above, TWC has a $6.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with a maturity date of February 15, 2011 (the "Cable Revolving Facility"). This represents an extension of the maturity of TWC's previous $4.0 billion of committed revolving bank commitments from November 23, 2009, plus a contingent increase of $2.0 billion effective concurrent with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition. Also effective concurrent with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition were two $4 billion term loan
Table of Contents
 
 
 
facilities (the "Cable Term Facilities" and, collectively with the Cable Revolving Facility, the "Cable Facilities") with maturity dates of February 24, 2009 and February 21, 2011, respectively. TWE is no longer a borrower in respect of any of the Cable Facilities, although TWE and TW NY have guaranteed the obligations of TWC under the Cable Facilities, and Warner Communications Inc. ("WCI") and American Television and Communications Corporation ("ATC") (both of which are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Time Warner but not subsidiaries of TWC) have each guaranteed a pro-rata portion of TWE's guarantee obligations under the Cable Facilities. There are generally no restrictions on the ability of WCI and ATC to transfer material assets to parties that are not guarantors.
 
Borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility bear interest at a rate based on the credit rating of TWC, which rate is currently LIBOR plus 0.27% per annum (LIBOR plus 0.39% as of December 31, 2005). In addition, TWC is required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitments under the Cable Revolving Facility at a rate determined by the credit rating of TWC, which rate is currently 0.08% per annum (0.11% per annum as of December 31, 2005). TWC may also incur an additional usage fee of 0.10% per annum on the outstanding loans and other extensions of credit under the Cable Revolving Facility if and when such amounts exceed 50% of the aggregate commitments thereunder. Borrowings under the Cable Term Facilities will bear interest at a rate based on the credit rating of TWC, which rate is currently LIBOR plus 0.40% per annum. TWC was required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitments under the Cable Term Facilities prior to the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition at a rate determined by the credit rating of TWC, which rate is currently 0.08% per annum.
 
The Cable Revolving Facility provides same-day funding capability and a portion of the commitment, not to exceed $500 million at any time, may be used for the issuance of letters of credit. The Cable Facilities contain a maximum leverage ratio covenant of 5.0 times consolidated EBITDA of TWC, which is substantially the same leverage ratio covenant in effect at December 31, 2005. The terms and related financial metrics associated with the leverage ratio are defined in the Cable Facility agreements. At December 31, 2005, TWC was in compliance with the leverage covenant (both under its previous revolving credit facility and pro forma for the analogous covenant in the Cable Facilities), with a leverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the agreements, of approximately 1.2 times. The Cable Facilities do not contain any credit ratings-based defaults or covenants or any ongoing covenant or representations specifically relating to a material adverse change in the financial condition or results of operations of Time Warner or TWC. Borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and unused credit is available to support borrowings under commercial paper programs. Borrowings under the Cable Term Facilities will be used to assist in financing the cash portions of the payments to be made in the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange. As of December 31, 2005, there were $155 million of letters of credit outstanding under TWC's previous revolving credit facility, and all outstanding letters of credit have been assumed under the Cable Revolving Facility.
 
Additionally, TWC maintains a $2.0 billion unsecured commercial paper program. Commercial paper borrowings at TWC are supported by the unused committed capacity of the Cable Revolving Facility. TWE is a guarantor of commercial paper issued by TWC. In addition, WCI and ATC have each guaranteed a pro-rata portion of TWE's obligations in respect of its guaranty of commercial paper issued by TWC. There are generally no restrictions on the ability of WCI and ATC to transfer material assets to parties that are not guarantors. The commercial paper issued by TWC ranks pari passu with TWC's other unsecured senior indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, there was approximately $1.101 billion of commercial paper outstanding under the TWC commercial paper program. TWE's commercial paper program has been terminated.
 
TWE Notes and Debentures
 
During 1992 and 1993, TWE issued debt publicly in a number of offerings. The maturities of these outstanding issuances ranged from 15 to 40 years and the fixed interest rates range from 7.25% to 10.15%. The fixed rate borrowings include an unamortized debt premium of $154 million and $167 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The debt premium is amortized over the term of each debt issue as a reduction of interest
Table of Contents
 
 
 
expense. WCI and ATC (the "Guarantors") have each guaranteed a pro-rata portion of TWE's debt and accrued interest, based on the relative fair value of the net assets that each Guarantor (or its predecessor) contributed to TWE prior to the TWE Restructuring. Such indebtedness is recourse to each Guarantor only to the extent of its guarantee. TWC has in turn guaranteed the respective obligations of each of the Guarantors. The indenture pursuant to which TWE's public notes and debentures have been issued requires the majority consent of the holders of the notes and debentures to terminate the Guarantor guarantees. There are generally no restrictions on the ability of the Guarantors to transfer material assets (other than their interests in TWE or TWC) to parties that are not guarantors. On September 10, 2003, TWE submitted an application with the SEC to withdraw its 7.25% Senior Debentures (due 2008) from listing and registration on the New York Stock Exchange. The application to withdraw was granted by the SEC effective on October 17, 2003. As a result, TWE no longer has an obligation to file reports with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
On November 1, 2004, TWE, TWC, certain other affiliates of Time Warner and the Bank of New York, as Trustee, entered into the Ninth Supplemental Indenture to the Indenture governing approximately $3.2 billion (principal amount) of notes and debentures issued by TWE (the "TWE Notes"). As a result of this supplemental indenture, TW NY assumed certain partnership liabilities with respect to the TWE Notes.
 
TW NY Mandatorily Redeemable Non-voting Series A Preferred Membership Units
 
On July 31, 2006, in connection with the financing of the Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY issued $300 million of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units to a number of third parties. The TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units pay cash dividends at an annual rate equal to 8.21% of the sum of the liquidation preference thereof and any accrued but unpaid dividends thereon, on a quarterly basis. The TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units are entitled to mandatory redemption by TW NY on August 1, 2013 and are not redeemable by TW NY at any time prior to that date. The redemption price of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units is equal to their liquidation preference plus any accrued and unpaid dividends through the redemption date. Except under limited circumstances, holders of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units have no voting rights.
 
The terms of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units require that holders owning a majority of the preferred units approve any agreement for a material sale or transfer by TW NY and its subsidiaries of assets at any time during which TW NY and its subsidiaries maintain, collectively, cable systems serving fewer than 500,000 cable subscribers, or that would (after giving effect to such asset sale) cause TW NY to maintain, directly or indirectly, fewer than 500,000 cable subscribers, unless the net proceeds of the asset sale are applied to fund the redemption of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units and the sale occurs on or immediately prior to the redemption date. Additionally, for so long as the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units remain outstanding, TW NY may not merge or consolidate with another company, or convert from a limited liability company to a corporation, partnership or other entity, unless (i) such merger or consolidation is permitted by the asset sale covenant described above, (ii) if TW NY is not the surviving entity or is no longer a limited liability company, the then holders of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units have the right to receive from the surviving entity securities with terms at least as favorable as the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units and (iii) if TW NY is the surviving entity, the tax characterization of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units would not be affected by the merger or consolidation. Any securities received from a surviving entity as a result of a merger or consolidation or the conversion into a corporation, partnership or other entity must rank senior to any other securities of the surviving entity with respect to dividends and distributions or rights upon a liquidation.
 
Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
As part of the TWE Restructuring, TWE issued $2.4 billion in mandatorily redeemable preferred equity to ATC, a subsidiary of Time Warner, in conjunction with the TWE Restructuring. The issuance was a noncash transaction. The preferred equity pays cash distributions, on a quarterly basis, at an annual rate of 8.059% of its face value and is required to be redeemed by TWE in cash on April 1, 2023. On July 28, 2006, ATC contributed its
Table of Contents
 
 
 
$2.4 billion mandatorily redeemable preferred equity interest and a 1% common equity interest in TWE to TW NY Cable Holding Inc. ("TW NY Holding") in exchange for a 12.4% non-voting common equity interest in TW NY Holding.
 
Time Warner Approval Rights
 
Under a parent agreement entered into between Time Warner, TWC and Comcast (the "Parent Agreement") (or, following the closing of the TWC Redemption Agreement, a shareholder agreement entered into between TWC and Time Warner on April 20, 2005), TWC is required to obtain Time Warner's approval prior to incurring additional debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or issuing preferred equity, if its consolidated ratio of debt, including preferred equity, plus six times its annual rental expense to EBITDAR (the "TW Leverage Ratio") then exceeds, or would as a result of the incurrence or issuance exceed, 3:1. Under certain circumstances, TWC also includes the indebtedness, annual rental expense obligations and EBITDAR of certain unconsolidated entities that it manages in which it owns an equity interest, in the calculation of the TW Leverage Ratio. The Parent Agreement defines EBITDAR, at any time of measurement, as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and rental expense (for any lease that is not accounted for as a capital lease) for the twelve months ending on the last day of TWC's most recent fiscal quarter, including certain adjustments to reflect the impact of significant transactions as if they had occurred at the beginning of the period. At December 31, 2005, the Company did not exceed the TW Leverage Ratio.
and/or
 
Deferred Financing Costs
 
As of December 31, 2005, the Company has capitalized $5 million of deferred financing costs, net of accumulated amortization, associated with the establishment of the TWC credit facilities and the issuance of mandatorily redeemable preferred equity. These capitalized costs are amortized over the term of the related debt facility and included as a component of interest expense.
 
Maturities
 
Annual repayments of long-term debt, including the repayment of mandatorily redeemable preferred equity, are expected to occur as follows:
 
 
Fair Value of Debt
 
Based on the level of interest rates prevailing at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the fair value of TWC's fixed-rate debt (including the mandatorily redeemable preferred equity) exceeded its carrying value by approximately $325 million and $1.111 billion at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Unrealized gains or losses on debt do not result in the realization or expenditure of cash and are not recognized for financial reporting purposes unless the debt is retired prior to its maturity.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
TWC is not a separate taxable entity for U.S. federal and various state income tax purposes and its results are included in the consolidated U.S. federal and certain state income tax returns of Time Warner. The following income tax information has been prepared assuming TWC was a stand-alone taxpayer for all periods presented.
 
The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:
 
 
The difference between income taxes expected at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35% and income taxes provided is detailed below:
 
 
The Company has recorded a tax benefit in shareholders' equity and attributed net assets of $3 million in 2005, $2 million in 2004 and $2 million in 2003 in connection with the exercise of certain stock options.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Significant components of TWC's net deferred tax liabilities are as follows:
 
 
TWC owns 94.3% of the common equity of TWE. Net income for financial reporting purposes of TWE is allocated to the partners in accordance with the partners' common ownership interests. Income for tax purposes is allocated in accordance with the partnership agreement and related tax law. As a result, the allocation of taxable income to the partners differs from the allocation of net income for financial reporting purposes. In addition, pursuant to the partnership agreement, TWE makes tax distributions based upon the taxable income of the partnership. The payments are made to each partner in accordance with their common ownership interest.
 
 
Time Warner has two active equity plans under which it is authorized to grant options to purchase Time Warner common stock to employees of TWC. Such options have been granted to employees of TWC with exercise prices equal to the fair market value at the date of grant. Generally, the options vest ratably, over a four-year vesting period, and expire ten years from the date of grant. Certain option awards provide for accelerated vesting upon an election to retire pursuant to TWC's defined benefit retirement plans or after reaching a specified age and years of service.
 
Certain information for Time Warner stock-based compensation plans for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as follows:
 
 
Other information pertaining to each category of stock-based compensation plan appears below.
 
Stock Option Plans
 
The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, consistent with the provisions of FAS 123R and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107,
Share-Based
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Because option-pricing models require the use of subjective assumptions, changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value of the options. The assumptions presented in the table below represent the weighted average value of the applicable assumption used to value stock options at their grant date. In determining the volatility assumption, the Company considers implied volatilities from traded options, as well as quotes from third-party investment banks. The expected term, which represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding, is estimated based on the historical exercise experience of the Company's employees. The Company evaluated the historical exercise behaviors of five employee groups, one of which related to retirement-eligible employees while the other four of which were segregated based on the number of options granted when determining the expected term assumptions. The risk-free rate assumed in valuing the options is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. The Company determines the expected dividend yield percentage by dividing the expected annual dividend by the market price of Time Warner common stock at the date of grant.
Payment.
 
 
The following table summarizes certain key information about Time Warner stock options awarded to employees of the continuing operations of TWC outstanding at December 31, 2005:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
At December 31, 2005, the number, weighted-average exercise price, aggregate intrinsic value and weighted-average remaining contractual term of options vested and expected to vest approximate amounts outstanding. Total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards at December 31, 2005 prior to the consideration of expected forfeitures is approximately $33 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2 years.
 
The weighted average fair value of a Time Warner stock option granted to TWC employees during the year was $5.11 ($3.07 net of taxes) in both 2005 and 2004 and $4.06 ($2.44 net of taxes) in 2003. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $7 million, $8 million and $3 million, respectively. In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized from stock options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $3 million, $3 million and $1 million, respectively.
 
At December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, approximately 33.8 million, 25.3 million and 18.4 million Time Warner stock options, respectively, were exercisable with respect to employees of the continuing operations of TWC.
 
Upon exercise of Time Warner options, TWC is obligated to reimburse Time Warner for the excess of the market price of the stock over the option exercise price. TWC records a stock option distribution liability and a corresponding adjustment to shareholders' equity or attributed net assets, with respect to unexercised options. This liability will increase or decrease depending on the number of vested options outstanding and the market price of Time Warner common stock. This liability was $55 million and $57 million as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively, and is included as a component of accrued compensation in other current liabilities. TWC reimbursed Time Warner approximately $7 million, $8 million and $3 million during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
 
The Company participates in various funded and non-funded non-contributory defined benefit pension plans administered by Time Warner (the "Pension Plans") and the TWC Savings Plan (the "401K Plan"), a defined pre-tax contribution plan.
 
Benefits under the Pension Plans for all employees are determined based on formulas that reflect employees' years of service and compensation levels during their employment period. The Company's pension assets are held in a master trust with plan assets of other Time Warner defined benefit plans. Time Warner's common stock represents approximately 3% of defined benefit plan assets held in the master trust at both December 31, 2005 and 2004. TWC uses a December 31 measurement date for its plans. A summary of activity for the Pension Plans is as follows:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The discount rate was determined by reference to the Moody's Aa Corporate Bond Index, adjusted for coupon frequency and duration of the pension obligation. In developing the expected long-term rate of return on assets, the Company considered the pension portfolio's composition, past average rate of earnings and discussions with
Table of Contents
 
 
 
portfolio managers. The expected long-term rate of return for domestic plans is based on an asset allocation assumption of 75% equities and 25% fixed-income securities. The expected rate of return for the plans is based upon its expected asset allocation.
 
The Company maintains certain unfunded defined benefit pension plans that are included above. The projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations for the unfunded defined benefit pension plans were each $35 million as of December 31, 2005 and $27 million as of December 31, 2004. At December 31, 2005 there were no minimum required contributions for funded plans and no discretionary or noncash contributions are currently planned. For unfunded plans, contributions will continue to be made to the extent benefits are paid.
 
The Company's investment strategy for its pension plans is to maximize the long-term rate of return on plan assets within an acceptable level of risk while maintaining adequate funding levels. The Company's practice is to conduct a strategic review of its asset allocation strategy every five years. The Company's current broad strategic targets are to have a pension asset portfolio comprising 75% equity securities and 25% fixed-income securities, which was achieved at both December 31, 2005 and 2004. A portion of the fixed-income allocation is reserved in short-term cash to provide for expected benefits to be paid in the short term. The Company's equity portfolios are managed to achieve optimal diversity. The Company's fixed-income portfolio is investment-grade in the aggregate. The Company does not manage any assets internally, does not have any passive investments in index funds and does not utilize hedging, futures or derivative instruments.
 
After considering the funded status of the Company's defined benefit pension plans, movements in the discount rate, investment performance and related tax consequences, the Company may choose to make contributions to its pension plans in any given year. At December 31, 2005, there were no minimum required contributions and no discretionary or noncash contributions are currently planned. For the unfunded plans, contributions will continue to be made to the extent benefits are paid. Expected benefit payments for domestic unfunded plans for 2006 is approximately $1 million.
 
Information about the expected benefit payments for the Company's defined benefit plans is as follows (in millions):
 
 
The above detail of expected benefit payments includes approximately $21 million of benefits related to unfunded plans.
 
Certain employees of TWC participate in multi-employer pension plans as to which the expense amounted to $21 million in 2005, $19 million in 2004, and $17 million in 2003.
 
TWC employees also generally participate in certain defined contribution plans, including the 401K Plan, for which the expense amounted to $39 million in 2005, $33 million in 2004, and $30 million in 2003. Contributions to the defined contribution plans are based upon a percentage of the employees' elected contributions.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
In the normal course of conducting its business, the Company has various transactions with Time Warner, affiliates and subsidiaries of Time Warner, Comcast and the equity method investees of TWC. A summary of these transactions is as follows:
 
 
 
Funding AgreementTexas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P.
 
At December 31, 2005, and Comcast were parties to a funding agreement (the "Funding Agreement") that required the parties to provide additional funding to TKCCP on a basis in an amount to enable certain Texas systems (i.e., Houston and south Texas systems) to maintain compliance with financial covenants under its bank credit facilities. The Texas systems' outstanding principal and accrued interest under its bank credit facilities as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $548 million and $805 million, respectively. Currently, TWE-A/N and Comcast each fund half of the total obligation under the Funding Agreement. The Company's funding obligations under the Funding Agreement totaled $40 million and $33 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 45,
TWE-A/N
month-to-month
Guarantor's
Table of Contents
 
 
 
, the Company has accrued $45 million as a liability related to the estimated prospective funding of the Texas systems through June 1, 2006.
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Othersan interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34
 
Upon completion of the TKCCP restructuring in May 2004, TWE-A/N's funding obligation for the Texas systems was automatically extended until all amounts borrowed under the senior credit agreement have been repaid and the senior credit agreement has been terminated. As part of the restructuring, all of the assets and liabilities of TKCCP have been grouped into two pools. Upon delivery of a dissolution notice by either partner, which could occur no earlier than June 1, 2006, the partner receiving the dissolution notice would choose and take full ownership of a pool of assets and liabilities that will be distributed to it upon dissolution. The other partner would receive and take full ownership of the other pool of assets and liabilities upon dissolution. After the pools have been allocated, each partner would provide funding under the Funding Agreement pro-rata based on the amount of the debt incurred under the senior credit facility that was allocated to the pool selected by that partner until the partnership is dissolved and the senior credit agreement terminates.
 
Promissory notes issued under the Funding Agreement bear interest at LIBOR plus 4% (adjusted quarterly and added to the principal amount of the note) and are subordinate in payment to the credit agreement of TKCCP and are payable on the day following the date on which TKCCP has no outstanding borrowings under its senior credit agreement. The related interest earned for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 totaled approximately $35 million, $22 million, and $17 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Company holds $517 million and $425 million, respectively, of promissory notes from TKCCP (including accrued interest of approximately $98 million and $63 million, respectively) which have been recorded in investments.
 
As discussed further in Note 2, in accordance with the terms of the TKCCP partnership agreement, on July 3, 2006, Comcast notified TWC of its election to trigger the dissolution of the partnership and its decision to allocate all of TKCCP's debt, which totaled approximately $2 billion, to the pool of assets consisting of the Houston cable systems. On October 2, 2006, TWC received approximately $630 million from Comcast due to the repayment of debt owed by TKCCP to TWE-A/N that had been allocated to the Houston cable systems. On January 1, 2007, the assets of TKCCP were distributed to its partners and TWC received the Kansas City Pool.
 
Reimbursements of Programming Expense
 
A subsidiary of Time Warner previously agreed to assume a portion of the cost of TWC's new contractual carriage arrangements with a programmer in order to secure other forms of content from the same programmer over time periods consistent with the terms of the respective TWC carriage contract. The amount assumed represented Time Warner's best estimate of the fair value of the other content acquired by the Time Warner subsidiary at the time the agreements were executed. Under this arrangement, the subsidiary makes periodic payments to TWC that are classified as a reduction of programming costs in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. Payments received and accrued under this agreement totaled approximately $30 million, $15 million and $11 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
 
Prior to its 2003 restructuring, TWE had various contingent commitments, including guarantees, related to the TWE Non-cable Businesses. In connection with the restructuring of TWE, some of these commitments were not transferred with their applicable Non-cable Business and they remain contingent commitments of TWE. Time Warner and WCI have agreed, on a joint and several basis, to indemnify TWE from and against any and all of these contingent liabilities, but TWE remains a party to these commitments.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Firm Commitments
 
The Company has commitments under various firm contractual arrangements to make future payments for goods and services. These firm commitments secure future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. For example, the Company is contractually committed to make some minimum lease payments for the use of property under operating lease agreements. In accordance with current accounting rules, the future rights and obligations pertaining to these contracts are not reflected as assets or liabilities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
 
The following table summarizes the material firm commitments of the Company's continuing operations at December 31, 2005 and the timing of and effect that these obligations are expected to have on the Company's liquidity and cash flow in future periods. This table excludes repayments on long-term debt (including capital leases) and commitments related to other entities, including certain unconsolidated equity method investees. TWC expects to fund these firm commitments with operating cash flow generated in the normal course of business.
 
 
 
The Company's total rent expense, which primarily includes facility rental expense and pole attachment rental fees, amounted to $98 million, $101 million and $90 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
Contingent Commitments
 
Prior to the TWE Restructuring, TWE had various contingent commitments, including guarantees, related to the TWE Non-cable Businesses. In connection with the restructuring of TWE, some of these commitments were not transferred with their applicable Non-cable Business and they remain contingent commitments of TWE. Specifically, in connection with the Non-cable Businesses' former investment in the Six Flags theme parks located in Georgia and Texas ("Six Flags Georgia" and "Six Flags Texas," respectively, and collectively, the "Parks"), Time Warner and TWE each agreed to guarantee (the "Six Flags Guarantee") certain obligations of the partnerships that hold the Parks (the "Partnerships"), including the following (the "Guaranteed Obligations"): (a) the obligation to make a minimum amount of annual distributions to the limited partners of the Partnerships; (b) the obligation to make a minimum amount of capital expenditures each year; (c) the requirement that an annual offer to purchase be made in respect of 5% of the limited partnership units of the Partnerships (plus any such units not purchased in any prior year) based on an aggregate price for all limited partnership units at the higher of (i) $250 million in the case of Six Flags Georgia or $374.8 million in the case of Six Flags Texas and (ii) a weighted average multiple of EBITDA
Table of Contents
 
 
 
for the respective Park over the previous four-year period; (d) ground lease payments; and (e) either (i) the purchase of all of the outstanding limited partnership units upon the earlier of the occurrence of certain specified events and the end of the term of each of the Partnerships in 2027 (Six Flags Georgia) and 2028 (Six Flags Texas) (the "End of Term Purchase") or (ii) the obligation to cause each of the Partnerships to have no indebtedness and to meet certain other financial tests as of the end of the term of the Partnership. The aggregate purchase price for the limited partnership units pursuant to the End of Term Purchase is $250 million in the case of Six Flags Georgia and $374.8 million in the case of Six Flags Texas (in each case, subject to a consumer price index based adjustment calculated annually from 1998 in respect of Six Flags Georgia and 1999 in respect of Six Flags Texas). Such aggregate amount will be reduced ratably to reflect limited partnership units previously purchased.
 
In connection with the 1998 sale of Six Flags Entertainment Corporation to Six Flags Inc. (formerly Premier Parks Inc.) ("Six Flags"), Six Flags, Historic TW and TWE, among others, entered into a Subordinated Indemnity Agreement pursuant to which Six Flags agreed to guarantee the performance of the Guaranteed Obligations when due and to indemnify Historic TW and TWE, among others, in the event that the Guaranteed Obligations are not performed and the Six Flags Guarantee is called upon. In the event of a default of Six Flags' obligations under the Subordinated Indemnity Agreement, the Subordinated Indemnity Agreement and related agreements provide, among other things, that Historic TW and TWE have the right to acquire control of the managing partner of the Parks. Six Flags' obligations to Historic TW and TWE are further secured by its interest in all limited partnership units that are purchased by Six Flags.
 
Additionally, Time Warner and WCI have agreed, on a joint and several basis, to indemnify TWE from and against any and all of these contingent liabilities, but TWE remains a party to these commitments. In the event that TWE is required to make a payment related to any contingent liabilities of the TWE Non-cable Businesses, TWE will recognize an expense from discontinued operations and will receive a capital contribution from Time Warner its subsidiary WCI for reimbursement of the incurred expenses. Additionally, costs related to any acquisition and subsequent distribution to Time Warner would also be treated as an expense of discontinued operations to be reimbursed by Time Warner.
and/or
 
To date, no payments have been made by Historic TW or TWE pursuant to the Six Flags Guarantee.
 
The Company has cable franchise agreements containing provisions requiring the construction of cable plant and the provision of services to customers within the franchise areas. In connection with these obligations under existing franchise agreements, TWC obtains surety bonds or letters of credit guaranteeing performance to municipalities and public utilities and payment of insurance premiums. The Company has also obtained letters of credit for several of its joint ventures and other obligations.
 
Should the Company or these joint ventures default on their obligations supported by the letters of credit, TWC would be obligated to pay these costs to the extent of the letters of credit. Such surety bonds and letters of credit as of December 31, 2005 amounted to $245 million. Payments under these arrangements are required only in the event of nonperformance. No amounts were outstanding under these arrangements at December 31, 2005. The Company does not expect that these contingent commitments will result in any amounts being paid in the foreseeable future.
 
TWE is required, at least quarterly, to make tax distributions to its partners in proportion to their residual interests in an aggregate amount generally equivalent to a percentage of TWE's taxable income. TWC is also required to make cash distributions to Time Warner when the Company's employees exercise previously issued Time Warner stock options.
 
Certain Investee Obligations
 
 
In 2004, TWE-A/N (which owns the Company's interest in TKCCP) agreed to extend its commitment to provide a ratable share (i.e., 50%) of any funding required to maintain certain Texas systems (i.e., Houston and
Table of Contents
 
 
 
south and west Texas systems) in compliance with their financial covenants under the bank credit facilities (which facilities are otherwise nonrecourse to the Company, its other subsidiaries and its Kansas City systems). Funding made with respect to this agreement is contributed to the Texas systems in the form of partner subordinated loans. The aggregate amount of subordinated debt provided by TWE-A/N in 2005 and 2004 with respect to its obligations under the funding agreement was $40 million and $33 million, respectively. TWE-A/N's ultimate liability in respect of the funding agreement is dependent on the financial results of the Texas systems.
 
The existing bank credit facilities of the Texas systems and the Kansas City systems (approximately $548 million in aggregate principal outstanding as of December 31, 2005 for the Texas systems and $400 million in aggregate principal outstanding as of December 31, 2005 for the Kansas City systems) mature at the earlier of June 30, 2007 for the Texas systems and March 31, 2007 for the Kansas City systems or the refinancing thereof pursuant to the dissolution of the partnership.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
  Securities Matters
 
In July 2005, Time Warner reached an agreement for the settlement of the primary securities class action pending against it. The settlement is reflected in a written agreement between the lead plaintiff and Time Warner. In connection with reaching the agreement in principle on the securities class action, Time Warner established a reserve of $2.4 billion during the second quarter of 2005. Pursuant to the settlement, in October 2005 Time Warner paid $2.4 billion into a settlement fund (the "MSBI Settlement Fund") for the members of the class represented in the action. In addition, the $150 million previously paid by Time Warner into a fund in connection with the settlement of the investigation by the DOJ was transferred to the MSBI Settlement Fund, and Time Warner is using its best efforts to have the $300 million it previously paid in connection with the settlement of its SEC investigation, or at least a substantial portion of it, transferred to the MSBI Settlement Fund.
 
During the second quarter of 2005, Time Warner also established an additional reserve totaling $600 million in connection with a number of other related litigation matters that remain pending, including shareholder derivative suits, individual securities actions (including suits brought by individual shareholders who decided to "opt-out" of the settlement) and the three putative class action lawsuits alleging Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA") violations described below.
 
Time Warner reached an agreement with the carriers on its directors and officers insurance policies in connection with the related securities and derivative action matters (other than the actions alleging violations of ERISA described below). As a result of this agreement, in the fourth quarter Time Warner recorded a recovery of approximately $185 million (bringing the total 2005 recoveries to $206 million), which is expected to be collected in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Time Warner's pending settlement of the primary securities class action and payment of the $2.4 billion into the MSBI Settlement Fund, the establishment of the additional $600 million reserve and the oral understanding with the insurance carriers have no impact on the consolidated financial statements of TWC.
 
As of February 23, 2006, three putative class action lawsuits have been filed alleging violations of ERISA in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of current and former participants in the Time Warner Savings Plan, the Time Warner Thrift Plan the TWC Savings Plan (the "Plans"). Collectively, these lawsuits name as defendants Time Warner, certain current and former directors and officers of Time Warner and members of the Administrative Committees of the Plans. One of these cases also names TWE as a defendant. The lawsuits allege that Time Warner and other defendants breached certain fiduciary duties to plan participants by, continuing to offer Time Warner stock as an investment under the Plans, and by failing to disclose, among other things, that Time Warner was experiencing declining advertising revenues and that Time Warner was inappropriately inflating advertising revenues through various transactions. The complaints seek unspecified
and/or
inter alia,
Table of Contents
 
 
 
damages and unspecified equitable relief. The ERISA actions have been consolidated with other Time Warner-related shareholder lawsuits and derivative actions under the caption in the Southern District of New York. On July 3, 2003, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint naming additional defendants, including TWE, certain current and former officers, directors and employees of Time Warner and Fidelity Management Trust Company. On September 12, 2003, Time Warner filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated ERISA complaint. On March 9, 2005, the court granted in part and denied in part Time Warner's motion to dismiss. The court dismissed two individual defendants and TWE for all purposes, dismissed other individuals with respect to claims plaintiffs had asserted involving the TWC Savings Plan, and dismissed all individuals who were named in a claim asserting that their stock sales had constituted a breach of fiduciary duty to the Plans. Time Warner filed an answer to the consolidated ERISA complaint on May 20, 2005. On January 17, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. On the same day, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment on the basis that plaintiffs cannot establish loss causation for any of their claims and therefore have no recoverable damages, as well as a motion for judgment on the pleadings on the basis that plaintiffs do not have standing to bring their claims. The parties have reached an understanding to resolve these matters, subject to definitive documentation and necessary court approvals. As these matters are principally Time Warner related, no impact has been reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company.
In re AOL Time Warner Inc. Securities and "ERISA" Litigation
 
 
As previously disclosed by the Company, the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") had been conducting investigations into accounting and disclosure practices of Time Warner. Those investigations focused on advertising transactions, principally involving Time Warner's AOL segment, the methods used by the AOL segment to report its subscriber numbers and the accounting related to Time Warner's interest in AOL Europe prior to January 2002.
 
Time Warner and its subsidiary, AOL, entered into a settlement with the DOJ in December 2004 that provided for a deferred prosecution arrangement for a two-year period. As part of the settlement with the DOJ, in December 2004, Time Warner paid a penalty of $60 million and established a $150 million fund, which Time Warner could use to settle related securities litigation. During October 2005, the $150 million was transferred by Time Warner into the MSBI Settlement Fund for the members of the class covered by the consolidated securities class action described above.
 
In addition, on March 21, 2005, Time Warner announced that the SEC had approved Time Warner's proposed settlement, which resolved the SEC's investigation of Time Warner.
 
Under the terms of the settlement with the SEC, Time Warner agreed, without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, to be enjoined from future violations of certain provisions of the securities laws and to comply with the order issued by the SEC to AOL in May 2000. The settlement also required Time Warner to:
cease-and-desist
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Time Warner paid the $300 million penalty in March 2005. As described above, in connection with the pending settlement of the consolidated securities class action, Time Warner is using its best efforts to have the $300 million, or a substantial portion thereof, transferred to the MSBI Settlement Fund. The historical accounting adjustments were reflected in the restatement of Time Warner's financial results for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2003, which were included in Time Warner's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Form 10-K
 
The independent examiner began his review in June 2005 and, after several extensions of time, recently completed that review, in which he concluded that certain of the transactions under review with 15 counterparties, including three cable programming affiliation agreements with advertising elements, had been accounted for improperly because the historical accounting did not reflect the substance of the arrangements. Under the terms of its SEC settlement, Time Warner is required to restate any transactions that the independent examiner determined were accounted for improperly. Accordingly, on August 15, 2006, Time Warner determined it would restate its consolidated financial results for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006. In addition, TWC determined it would restate its consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006. For more information, see Note 1.
 
The payments made by Time Warner pursuant to the DOJ and SEC settlements have no impact on the consolidated financial statements of TWC.
 
 
On June 16, 1998, plaintiffs in filed a purported nationwide class action in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York claiming that TWE sold its subscribers' personally identifiable information and failed to inform subscribers of their privacy rights in violation of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 and common law. The plaintiffs sought damages and declaratory and injunctive relief. On August 6, 1998, TWE filed a motion to dismiss, which was denied on September 7, 1999. On December 8, 1999, TWE filed a motion to deny class certification, which was granted on January 9, 2001 with respect to monetary damages, but denied with respect to injunctive relief. On June 2, 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the District Court's decision denying class certification as a matter of law and remanded the case for further proceedings on class certification and other matters. On May 4, 2004, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification, which the Company has opposed. This lawsuit has been settled on terms that are not material to TWC. The court granted preliminary approval of the class settlement on October 25, 2005 and held a final approval hearing on May 19, 2006. At this time there can be no assurance that the settlement will receive final court approval.
Andrew Parker and Eric DeBrauwere, et al. v. Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. and Time Warner Cable
 
On April 26, 2005, Acacia Media Technologies ("AMT") filed suit against TWC in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that TWC infringes several patents held by AMT. AMT has publicly taken the position that delivery of broadcast video (except live programming such as sporting events), and ad insertion services over cable systems infringe their patents. AMT has brought similar actions regarding the same patents against numerous other entities, and all of the previously pending litigations have been made the subject of a multidistrict litigation ("MDL") order consolidating the actions for pretrial activity in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. On October 25, 2005, the TWC action was consolidated into the MDL proceedings. The plaintiff is presently seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. The Company intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
Pay-Per-View,
Video-on-Demand
Table of Contents
 
 
 
On June 22, 2005, Mecklenburg County filed suit against TWE-A/N in the General Court of Justice District Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. Mecklenburg County, the franchisor in TWE-A/N's Mecklenburg County cable system, alleges that TWE-A/N's predecessor failed to construct an institutional network in 1981 and that TWE-A/N assumed that obligation upon the transfer of the franchise in 1995. Mecklenburg County is seeking compensatory damages and TWE-A/N's release of certain video channels it is currently using on the cable system. TWE-A/N intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On April 25, 2005, the City of Minneapolis (the "City") filed suit against TWC and a subsidiary in Hennepin County District Court, alleging that TWC's Minneapolis division failed to comply with certain provisions of its franchise agreement with the City. In particular, the complaint alleges that the division failed to pay franchise fees allegedly owed on the cable modem service, and failed to dedicate 25% of the channel capacity of the cable television network to public use as allegedly required by the franchise agreement. TWC removed the case to the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota and filed a motion to dismiss, which was granted. The City filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in December 2005. The Company intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
In addition, during 2005, the City notified TWC that the City believed the Company was in violation of nine separate provisions of its franchise agreement, including the two identified in the preceding paragraph. In December 2005, the parties settled four of the nine alleged violations with a nominal payment by TWC without the Company admitting any liability or wrongdoing. The City has tolled any action on the allegation that the Company is in breach for failure to remit franchise fees on cable modem service pending the outcome of the appeal in the case described in the preceding paragraph. The City is pursuing the remaining four allegations by seeking to impose penalties against the Company in a quasi-judicial proceeding before the Minneapolis City Council. TWC intends to vigorously defend against the imposition of penalties, including commencing, on February 3, 2006, an action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota seeking declaratory relief. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of these actions or reasonably estimate the range of possible loss.
 
On July 14, 2005, Forgent Networks, Inc. ("Forgent") filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that TWC and a number of other cable operators and direct broadcast satellite operators infringe a patent related to Digital Video Recorder technology. TWC is working closely with its Digital Video Recorder equipment vendors in defense of this matter, certain of whom have filed a declaratory judgment lawsuit against Forgent alleging the patent cited by Forgent to be non-infringed, invalid and unenforceable. Forgent is seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief in its suit against TWC. The Company intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On September 20, 2005, Digital Packet Licensing, Inc. filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that TWC and a number of other telephone service and network providers infringe a patent relating to Internet protocol telephone operations. The plaintiff sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief. This lawsuit has been settled on terms that are not material to TWC.
 
From time to time, the Company receives notices from third parties claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require TWC to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. In addition, certain agreements entered into by the Company may require the Company to indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase the Company's damages and its costs of defending against such claims. Even if the claims are without merit, defending against the claims can be time consuming and costly.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The costs and other effects of pending or future litigation, governmental investigations, legal and administrative cases and proceedings (whether civil or criminal), settlements, judgments and investigations, claims and changes in those matters (including those matters described above), and developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights and intellectual property licenses, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and operating results.
 
As part of the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner agreed to indemnify the cable businesses of TWE from and against any and all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from specified litigation matters brought against the TWE Non-cable Businesses. Although Time Warner has agreed to indemnify the cable businesses of TWE against such liabilities, TWE remains a named party in certain litigation matters.
 
In the normal course of business, the Company's tax returns are subject to examination by various domestic taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments on the Company. In instances where the Company believes that it is probable that it will be assessed, it has accrued a liability. The Company does not believe that these liabilities are material, individually or in the aggregate, to its financial condition or liquidity. Similarly, the Company does not expect the final resolution of tax examinations to have a material impact on the Company's financial results.
 
 
Other Cash Flow Information
 
Additional financial information with respect to cash (payments) and receipts are as follows:
 
 
Interest Expense, Net
 
Interest expense, net, consists of:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Video Programming, High-Speed Data and Digital Phone Expenses
 
Direct costs associated with the video, high-speed data and Digital Phone product lines (included within costs of revenues) consist of:
 
 
The direct costs associated with the video product line include video programming costs. The direct costs associated with the high-speed data and Digital Phone product lines include network connectivity costs and certain other direct costs.
 
Other Current Liabilities
 
Other current liabilities consist of:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Description of Business
 
Time Warner Cable Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "TWC" or the "Company") is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S. (in terms of basic video subscribers) and is an industry leader in developing and launching innovative video, data and voice services. As part of the strategy to expand TWC's cable footprint and improve the clustering of its cable systems, on July 31, 2006, a subsidiary of TWC, Time Warner NY Cable LLC ("TW NY"), and Comcast Corporation (together with its affiliates, "Comcast") completed their respective acquisitions of assets comprising in the aggregate substantially all of the cable systems of Adelphia Communications Corporation ("Adelphia"). Immediately prior to the Adelphia acquisition, TWC and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. ("TWE") redeemed Comcast's interests in TWC and TWE, respectively. In addition, TW NY exchanged certain cable systems with subsidiaries of Comcast. As a result of the closing of these transactions, TWC gained cable systems with approximately 3.2 million net basic video subscribers. Refer to Note 3 for further details.
 
At September 30, 2006, TWC had approximately 13.4 million basic video subscribers in technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five geographic areas  New York state, the Carolinas (i.e., North Carolina and South Carolina), Ohio, southern California and Texas. This subscriber number includes approximately 782,000 managed subscribers located in the Kansas City, south and west Texas and New Mexico cable systems (the "Kansas City Pool") that were consolidated on January 1, 2007, upon the distribution of the assets of Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P. ("TKCCP"), an equity method investee at September 30, 2006. Refer to Note 3 for further details. As of September 30, 2006, TWC was the largest cable system operator in a number of large cities, including New York City and Los Angeles.
 
As of September 30, 2006, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") held an 84.0% economic interest in TWC (representing a 90.6% voting interest), and Adelphia held a 16.0% economic interest in TWC through ownership of 17.3% of TWC's outstanding Class A common stock (representing a 9.4% voting interest). Comcast no longer has an interest in TWC or TWE. The financial results of TWC's operations are consolidated by Time Warner.
 
TWC principally offers three products  video, high-speed data and voice, which have been primarily targeted to residential customers. Video is TWC's largest product in terms of revenues generated. TWC continues to increase video revenues through the offering of advanced digital video services such as (VOD), Subscription-Video-on-Demand (SVOD), high definition television (HDTV) and set-top boxes equipped with digital video recorders (DVRs), as well as through price increases and subscriber growth. TWC's digital video subscribers provide a broad base of potential customers for additional advanced services.
Video-on-Demand
 
High-speed data service has been one of TWC's fastest-growing products over the past several years and is a key driver of its results. At September 30, 2006, TWC had approximately 6.4 million residential high-speed data subscribers (including approximately 357,000 managed subscribers in the Kansas City Pool). TWC also offers commercial high-speed data services and had approximately 234,000 commercial high-speed data subscribers (including approximately 16,000 managed subscribers in the Kansas City Pool) at September 30, 2006.
 
TWC's voice product, Digital Phone, is its newest product, and approximately 1.6 million subscribers (including approximately 125,000 managed subscribers in the Kansas City Pool) received the service as of September 30, 2006. For a monthly fixed fee, Digital Phone customers typically receive the following services: unlimited local, and U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico long-distance calling, as well as call waiting, caller ID and E911 services. TWC also is currently deploying a lower-priced unlimited calling plan to serve those customers that do not use long-distance services extensively and, in the future, intends to offer additional plans with a variety of local and long-distance options. Digital Phone enables TWC to offer its customers a convenient package, or "bundle," of video, high-speed data and voice services, and to compete effectively against similar bundled products available from its competitors. During 2007, TWC intends to introduce a commercial
in-state
in-state-only
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
voice service to small- to medium-sized businesses in most of the systems TWC held before and retained after the transactions with Adelphia and Comcast.
 
Some of TWC's principal competitors, in particular, direct broadcast satellite operators and incumbent local telephone companies, either offer or are making significant capital investments that will allow them to offer services that provide features and functions comparable to the video, data and/or voice services that TWC offers and they are aggressively seeking to offer them in bundles similar to TWC's.
 
In addition to its subscription Services TWC also earns revenues by selling advertising time to national, regional and local businesses.
 
In the systems acquired from Adelphia and Comcast, as of the acquisition date, the overall penetration rates for basic video, digital video and high-speed data services were lower than in TWC's historical systems. Furthermore, certain advanced services were not available in some of the acquired systems, and IP-based telephony service was not available in any of the acquired systems. To increase the penetration of these services in the acquired systems, TWC is in the midst of a significant integration effort that includes upgrading the capacity and technical performance of these systems to levels that will allow the delivery of these advanced services and features.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
Restatement of Prior Financial Information
 
As previously disclosed, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") had been conducting an investigation into certain accounting and disclosure practices of Time Warner. On March 21, 2005, Time Warner announced that the SEC had approved Time Warner's proposed settlement, which resolved the SEC's investigation of Time Warner. Under the terms of the settlement with the SEC, Time Warner agreed, without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, to be enjoined from future violations of certain provisions of the securities laws and to comply with the order issued by the SEC to AOL LLC (formerly America Online, Inc., "AOL"), a subsidiary of Time Warner, in May 2000. Time Warner also agreed to appoint an independent examiner, who was to either be or hire a certified public accountant. The independent examiner was to review whether Time Warner's historical accounting for certain transactions (as well as any subsequent amendments) with 17 counterparties identified by the SEC staff, principally involving online advertising revenues and including three cable programming affiliation agreements with related online advertising elements, was appropriate, and provide a report to Time Warner's Audit and Finance Committee of its conclusions, originally within 180 days of being engaged. The transactions that were to be reviewed were entered into (or amended) between June 1, 2000 and December 31, 2001, including subsequent amendments thereto, and involved online advertising and related transactions for which the majority of the revenue was recognized by Time Warner before January 1, 2002.
cease-and-desist
 
During the third quarter of 2006, the independent examiner completed his review, in which he concluded that certain of the transactions under review with 15 counterparties, including three cable programming affiliation agreements with advertising elements, had been accounted for improperly because the historical accounting did not reflect the substance of the arrangements. Under the terms of its SEC settlement, Time Warner was required to restate any transactions that the independent examiner determined were accounted for improperly. Accordingly, Time Warner restated its consolidated financial results for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006. The impact of the adjustments is reflected in amendments to Time Warner's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2005 and Time Warner's Quarterly Reports on for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, each of which were filed with the SEC on September 13, 2006. In addition, TWC restated its consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2005 and for the six months ended June 30, 2006. The financial statements presented herein reflect the impact of the adjustments made in the Company's financial results.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The three TWC transactions are ones in which TWC entered into cable programming affiliation agreements at the same time it committed to deliver (and did subsequently deliver) network and online advertising services to those same counterparties. Total Advertising revenue recognized by TWC under these transactions was approximately $274 million ($134 million in 2001 and $140 million in 2002). Included in the $274 million was $56 million related to operations that have been subsequently classified as discontinued operations. In addition to reversing the recognition of revenue, based on the independent examiner's conclusions, the Company has recorded corresponding reductions in the cable programming costs over the life of the related cable programming affiliation agreements (which range from 10 to 12 years) that were executed contemporaneously with the execution of the advertising agreements. These programming adjustments increased earnings beginning in 2003 and continuing through future periods.
 
The net effect of restating the financial statements to reflect these transactions is that TWC's net income was reduced by approximately $60 million in 2001 and $61 million in 2002 and was increased by approximately $12 million in each of 2003, 2004 and 2005, and by approximately $6 million for the first six months of 2006 (the impact for the year ended December 31, 2006 is estimated to be an increase to the Company's net income of approximately $12 million).
 
Details of the impact of the restatement in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations are as follows (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
At June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the impact of the restatement on Total Assets was a decrease of $24 million and $25 million, respectively, and the impact of the restatement on Total Liabilities was an increase of $55 million and $60 million, respectively. In addition, the impact of the restatement on Retained Earnings at December 31, 2004 was a decrease of $97 million. While the restatement resulted in changes in the classification of cash flows within cash provided by operating activities, it has not impacted total cash flows during the periods. Certain of the footnotes which follow have also been restated to reflect the changes described above.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Basis of Consolidation
 
The consolidated financial statements of TWC include 100% of the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, income, loss and cash flows of all companies in which TWC has a controlling voting interest, as well as allocations of certain Time Warner corporate costs deemed reasonable by management to present the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position, changes in equity and cash flows on a stand-alone basis. The consolidated financial statements include the results of Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership only for the systems that are controlled by TWC and for which TWC holds an economic interest. The Time Warner corporate costs include specified administrative services, including selected tax, human resources, legal, information technology, treasury, financial, public policy and corporate and investor relations services, and approximate Time Warner's estimated overhead cost for services rendered. Intercompany transactions between the consolidated companies have been eliminated.
("TWE-A/N")
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the September 30, 2006 presentation.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates are used when accounting for certain items such as allowances for doubtful accounts, investments, programming agreements, depreciation, amortization, asset impairment, income taxes, pensions, business combinations, nonmonetary transactions and contingencies. Allocation methodologies used to prepare the accompanying consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and have been described in the notes, where appropriate.
 
Interim Financial Statements
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements are unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, they contain all the adjustments (consisting of those of a normal recurring nature) considered necessary to present fairly the financial position, the results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applicable to interim periods. The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of TWC for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Changes in Basis of Presentation
 
The 2005 financial statements have been recast so that the basis of presentation is consistent with that of 2006. Specifically, the amounts have been recast for the effect of a stock dividend that occurred immediately after the closing of the Redemptions but prior to the consummation of the Adelphia Acquisition (each as defined in Note 3 below), the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), ("FAS 123R") and the presentation of certain cable systems as discontinued operations.
Share-Based Payment
 
Stock Dividend
 
Immediately after the closing of the Redemptions but prior to the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition (each as defined in Note 3 below), TWC paid a stock dividend to holders of record of TWC's Class A and Class B common
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
stock of 999,999 shares of Class A or Class B common stock, respectively, per share of Class A or Class B common stock held at that time. All prior period common stock information has been recast to reflect the stock dividend.
 
Stock-based Compensation
 
Historically, TWC employees participated in various Time Warner equity plans. TWC has established the Time Warner Cable Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the "TWC Plan"). The Company expects that its employees will participate in the TWC Plan starting in 2007 and will not thereafter continue to participate in Time Warner's equity plan. TWC employees who have outstanding equity awards under the Time Warner equity plans will retain any rights under those Time Warner equity awards pursuant to their terms regardless of their participation in the TWC Plan. The Company has adopted the provisions of FAS 123R as of January 1, 2006. The provisions of FAS 123R require a company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost is recognized in the statement of operations over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. FAS 123R also amends FASB Statement No. 95, , to require that excess tax benefits, as defined, realized from the exercise of stock options be reported as a financing cash inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid in cash flow from operations.
Statement of Cash Flows
 
Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, the Company had followed the provisions of FASB Statement No. 123, ("FAS 123"), which allowed the Company to follow the intrinsic value method set forth in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, , and disclose the pro forma effects on net income (loss) had the fair value of the equity awards been expensed. In connection with adopting FAS 123R, the Company elected to adopt the modified retrospective application method provided by FAS 123R and, accordingly, financial statement amounts for all prior periods presented herein reflect results as if the fair value method of expensing had been applied from the original effective date of FAS 123. The following tables set forth the increase (decrease) to the Company's consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets as a result of the adoption of FAS 123R for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (in millions, except per share data):
Accounting for Stock-based Compensation
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, for disclosure purposes, the Company recognized stock-based compensation expense for awards with graded vesting by treating each vesting tranche as a separate award and recognizing compensation expense ratably for each tranche. For equity awards granted subsequent to the adoption of FAS 123R, the Company treats such awards as a single award and recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee service period. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in costs of revenues or selling, general and administrative expense depending on the employee's job function.
 
Additionally, when recording compensation cost for equity awards, FAS 123R requires companies to estimate the number of equity awards granted that are expected to be forfeited. Prior to the adoption of FAS 123R, for disclosure purposes, the Company recognized forfeitures when they occurred, rather than using an estimate at the grant date and subsequently adjusting the estimated forfeitures to reflect actual forfeitures. Accordingly, a pretax cumulative effect adjustment totaling $4 million ($2 million, net of tax) has been recorded for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 to adjust for awards granted prior to January 1, 2006 that are not expected to vest.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
As discussed more fully in Note 3, the Company has reflected the operations of the Transferred Systems (as defined in Note 3 below) as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
Recent Accounting Standards
 
Accounting For Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits
 
In June 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus on EITF Issue ("EITF 06-02"). EITF 06-02 provides that an employee's right to a compensated absence under a sabbatical leave or similar benefit arrangement in which the employee is not required to perform any duties during the absence is an accumulating benefit. Therefore, such arrangements should be accounted for as a liability with the cost recognized over the service period during which the employee earns the benefit. The provisions of EITF 06-02 will be effective for TWC as of January 1, 2007 and will impact the accounting for certain of the Company's employment arrangements. The cumulative impact of this guidance, which will be applied retrospectively to all prior periods, is expected to result in a reduction to retained earnings on January 1, 2007 of approximately $62 million ($37 million, net of tax). The retrospective impact on Operating Income for calendar years 2006, 2005 and 2004 is expected to be approximately $6 million, $6 million and $8 million, respectively.
No. 06-02,
Accounting for Sabbatical Leave and Other Similar Benefits
 
Income Statement Classification of Taxes Collected from Customers
 
In June 2006, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF Issue ("EITF 06-03"). EITF 06-03 provides that the presentation of taxes assessed by a governmental authority that is directly imposed on a revenue-producing transaction between a seller and a customer on either a gross basis (included in revenues and costs) or on a net basis (excluded from revenues) is an accounting policy decision that should be disclosed. The provisions of EITF 06-03 will be effective for TWC as of January 1, 2007. is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
No. 06-03,
How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)
EITF 06-03
 
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
 
In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, ("FIN 48"), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income tax
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
positions. This Interpretation requires that the Company recognize in the consolidated financial statements the impact of a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 will be effective for TWC as of the beginning of the Company's 2007 fiscal year. The cumulative impact of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
Consideration Given By a Service Provider to Manufacturers or Resellers of Equipment
 
In September 2006, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF Issue ("EITF 06-01"). EITF 06-01 provides that consideration provided to the manufacturers or resellers of specialized equipment should be accounted for as a reduction of revenue if the consideration provided is in the form of cash and the service provider directs that such cash be provided directly to the customer. Otherwise, the consideration should be recorded as an expense. EITF 06-01 will be effective for TWC as of January 1, 2008 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
No. 06-01,
Accounting for Consideration Given by a Service Provider to Manufacturers or Resellers of Equipment Necessary for an End-Customer to Receive Service from the Service Provider
 
Quantifying Effects of Prior Years Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
 
In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108, ("SAB 108"). SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using both a balance sheet and statement of operations approach and evaluate whether either approach results in a misstated amount that, when all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered, is material. SAB 108 is effective for TWC in the fourth quarter of 2006 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
 
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 158, ("FAS 158"). FAS 158 addresses the accounting for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans ("plans"). Specifically, FAS 158 requires companies to recognize an asset for a plan's overfunded status or a liability for a plan's underfunded status and to measure a plan's assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the company's fiscal year, the offset of which is recorded, net of tax, as a component of other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. FAS 158 will be effective for TWC as of December 31, 2006 and applied prospectively. On December 31, 2006, the Company expects to reflect the funded status of its plans by reducing its net pension asset by approximately $217 million to reflect actuarial and investment losses that have not been recognized pursuant to prior pension accounting rules and recording a corresponding deferred tax asset of approximately $87 million and a net charge of approximately $130 million in other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity.
Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
after-tax
 
Fair Value Measurements
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 157, ("FAS 157"). FAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and expands on required disclosures about fair value measurement. FAS 157 is effective for TWC on January 1, 2008 and will be applied prospectively. The provisions of FAS 157 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Time Warner has three active equity plans under which it is authorized to grant options to purchase Time Warner common stock to employees of TWC, including shares under Time Warner's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, which was approved at the annual meeting of Time Warner stockholders held on May 19, 2006. Such options have been granted to employees of TWC with exercise prices equal to the fair market value at the date of grant. Generally, the options vest ratably, over a four-year vesting period, and expire ten years from the date of grant. Certain option awards provide for accelerated vesting upon an election to retire pursuant to TWC's defined benefit retirement plans or after reaching a specified age and years of service.
 
Time Warner also has various restricted stock plans under which it may make awards to employees of TWC. Under these plans, shares of Time Warner common stock or restricted stock units ("RSUs") are granted, which vest generally between three to five years from the date of grant. Certain RSU awards provide for accelerated vesting upon an election to retire pursuant to TWC's defined benefit retirement plans or after reaching a specified age and years of service. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, Time Warner issued approximately 429,000 RSUs to employees of TWC and its subsidiaries at a weighted-average fair value of $17.40 per unit. For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, Time Warner issued approximately 56,000 RSUs to employees of TWC and its subsidiaries at a weighted-average fair value of $18.26 per unit.
 
Certain information for Time Warner stock-based compensation plans for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Other information pertaining to each category of stock-based compensation appears below.
 
Stock Option Plans
 
The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, consistent with the provisions of FAS 123R and SAB No. 107, Because option-pricing models require the use of subjective assumptions, changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value of the options. The assumptions presented in the table below represent the weighted-average value of the applicable assumption used to value stock options at their grant date. In determining the volatility assumption, the Company considers implied volatilities from traded options, as well as quotes from third-party investment banks. The expected term, which represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding, is estimated based on the historical exercise experience of the Company's employees. The Company evaluated the historical exercise behaviors of five employee groups, one of which related to retirement-eligible employees while the other four of which were segregated based on the number of options granted when determining the expected term assumptions. The risk-free rate assumed in valuing the options is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. The Company determines the expected dividend yield
Share-based Payment.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
2.  Stock-Based Compensation (Continued)
 
percentage by dividing the expected annual dividend by the market price of Time Warner common stock at the date of grant.
 
 
The following table summarizes information about Time Warner stock options awarded to TWC employees that are outstanding at September 30, 2006:
 
 
At September 30, 2006, the number, weighted-average exercise price, aggregate intrinsic value and weighted-average remaining contractual term of options vested and expected to vest approximate amounts for options outstanding. Total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards at September 30, 2006, prior to the consideration of expected forfeitures is approximately $45 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.
 
The weighted-average fair value of a Time Warner stock option granted to TWC employees during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 was $4.47 ($2.68 net of taxes) and $5.11 ($3.07 net of taxes), respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 was approximately $7 million and $6 million, respectively. The tax benefits realized from stock options exercised in the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 were approximately $3 million and $2 million, respectively.
 
Upon exercise of Time Warner options, TWC is obligated to reimburse Time Warner for the excess of the market price of the stock on the day of exercise over the option price. TWC records a stock option distribution liability and a corresponding adjustment to shareholders' equity with respect to unexercised options. This liability will increase or decrease depending on the market price of Time Warner common stock and the number of options held by TWC employees. This liability was $59 million and $55 million as of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively, and is included in long-term payables to affiliated parties in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. TWC reimbursed Time Warner approximately $7 million and $6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, in connection with the exercise of Time Warner options.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
2.  Stock-Based Compensation (Continued)
 
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Plans
 
The following table summarizes information about Time Warner restricted stock and RSUs granted to TWC employees that are unvested at September 30, 2006:
 
 
At September 30, 2006, the intrinsic value of Time Warner restricted stock and RSU awards granted to TWC employees was approximately $11 million. Total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested Time Warner restricted stock and RSU awards granted to TWC employees at September 30, 2006 prior to the consideration of expected forfeitures was approximately $4 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years. The fair value of Time Warner restricted stock and RSUs granted to TWC employees that vested during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 was approximately $1 million.
 
3.  Transactions with Adelphia and Comcast
 
Adelphia Acquisition and Related Transactions
 
On July 31, 2006, TW NY and Comcast completed their respective acquisitions of assets comprising in the aggregate substantially all of the cable systems of Adelphia (the "Adelphia Acquisition"). At the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY paid approximately $8.9 billion in cash, after giving effect to certain purchase price adjustments, and shares representing approximately 16% of TWC's outstanding common stock valued at $5.5 billion for the portion of the Adelphia assets it acquired. The valuation of $5.5 billion for the approximately 16% interest in TWC as of July 31, 2006 was determined by management using a discounted cash flow and market comparable valuation model. The discounted cash flow valuation model was based upon the Company's estimated future cash flows derived from its business plan and utilized a discount rate consistent with the inherent risk in the business. The 16% interest reflects 155,913,430 shares of Class A common stock issued to Adelphia, which were valued at $35.28 per share for purposes of the Adelphia Acquisition.
 
In addition, on July 28, 2006, American Television and Communications Corporation ("ATC"), a subsidiary of Time Warner, contributed its 1% common equity interest and $2.4 billion preferred equity interest in TWE to TW NY Cable Holding Inc. ("TW NY Holding"), a newly created subsidiary of TWC and the parent of TW NY, in exchange for an approximately 12.4% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Holding having an equivalent fair value.
 
On July 31, 2006, immediately before the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, Comcast's interests in TWC and TWE were redeemed. Specifically, Comcast's 17.9% interest in TWC was redeemed in exchange for 100% of the capital stock of a subsidiary of TWC holding both cable systems serving approximately 589,000 subscribers, with an estimated fair value of approximately $2.470 billion, as determined by management using a discounted cash flow and market comparable valuation model, and approximately $1.857 billion in cash (the "TWC Redemption"). In addition, Comcast's 4.7% interest in TWE was redeemed in exchange for 100% of the equity interests in a subsidiary of TWE holding both cable systems serving approximately 162,000 subscribers, with an estimated fair value of approximately $630 million, as
Table of Contents
 
 
 
3.  Transactions with Adelphia and Comcast (Continued)
 
determined by management using a discounted cash flow and market comparable valuation model, and approximately $147 million in cash (the "TWE Redemption" and, together with the TWC Redemption, the "Redemptions"). The discounted cash flow valuation model was based upon the Company's estimated future cash flows derived from its business plan and utilized a discount rate consistent with the inherent risk in the business. The TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Tax Code"). For accounting purposes, the Redemptions were treated as an acquisition of Comcast's minority interests in TWC and TWE and a sale of the cable systems that were transferred to Comcast. The purchase of the minority interests resulted in a reduction of goodwill of $730 million related to the excess of the carrying value of the Comcast minority interests over the total fair value of the Redemptions. In addition, the sale of the cable systems resulted in an after-tax gain of $930 million, included in discontinued operations, which is comprised of a $113 million pretax gain (calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the systems acquired by Comcast in the Redemptions totaling $2.987 billion and the estimated fair value of $3.100 billion) and the net reversal of deferred tax liabilities of approximately $817 million.
 
Following the Redemptions and the Adelphia Acquisition, on July 31, 2006, TW NY and subsidiaries of Comcast also swapped certain cable systems each with an estimated value of $8.7 billion, as determined by management using a discounted cash flow and market comparable valuation model, to enhance the respective geographic clusters of subscribers of TWC and Comcast (the "Exchange" and, together with the Adelphia Acquisition and the Redemptions, the "Transactions"), and TW NY paid Comcast approximately $67 million for certain adjustments related to the Exchange. The discounted cash flow valuation model was based upon estimated future cash flows and utilized a discount rate consistent with the inherent risk in the business. The Exchange was accounted for as a purchase of cable systems from Comcast and a sale of TW NY's cable systems to Comcast. The systems exchanged by TW NY include Urban Cable Works of Philadelphia, L.P. ("Urban Cable") and systems acquired from Adelphia. The Company did not record a gain or loss on systems TW NY acquired from Adelphia and transferred to Comcast in the Exchange because such systems were recorded at fair value in the Adelphia Acquisition. The Company did, however, record a pretax gain of $32 million ($19 million net of tax) on the Exchange related to the disposition of Urban Cable. This gain is included as a component of discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006.
 
The purchase price for each of the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Other costs consist of (i) a contractual closing adjustment totaling $67 million relating to the Exchange, (ii) $104 million of estimated total transaction costs incurred through September 30, 2006 and (iii) $55 million of transaction-related taxes.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
3.  Transactions with Adelphia and Comcast (Continued)
 
The preliminary purchase price allocation for the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange are as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
The allocation of the purchase price is based on a preliminary estimate, which primarily used a discounted cash flow approach with respect to identified intangible assets and a combination of the cost and market approaches with respect to property, plant and equipment, and is subject to change based on the completion of management's final valuation analysis. The discounted cash flow approach was based upon management's estimated future cash flows from the acquired assets and liabilities and utilized a discount rate consistent with the inherent risk of each of the acquired assets and liabilities.
 
In connection with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, the $8.9 billion cash payment was funded by borrowings under the Company's $6.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with a maturity date of February 15, 2011 (the "Cable Revolving Facility"), the Company's two $4.0 billion term loan facilities (collectively with the Cable Revolving Facility, the "Cable Facilities") with maturity dates of February 24, 2009 and February 21, 2011, respectively, the issuance of TWC commercial paper and the proceeds of the private placement issuance by TW NY of $300 million of non-voting Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units with a mandatory redemption date of August 1, 2013 and a cash dividend rate of 8.21% per annum (the "TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units"). In connection with the TWC Redemption, the $1.857 billion in cash was funded through the issuance of TWC commercial paper and borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility. In addition, in connection with the TWE Redemption, the $147 million in cash was funded by the repayment of a pre-existing loan TWE had made to TWC (which repayment TWC funded through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility).
 
The results of the systems acquired in connection with the Transactions have been included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations since the closing of the transactions on July 31, 2006. The systems transferred in connection with the Redemptions and the Exchange (the "Transferred Systems"), including the gains discussed above, have been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for all periods presented.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
3.  Transactions with Adelphia and Comcast (Continued)
 
Financial data for the Transferred Systems included in discontinued operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 is as follows (in millions):
 
 
The tax benefit results primarily from the reversal of historical deferred tax liabilities that had been established on systems transferred to Comcast in the TWC Redemption. The TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Tax Code, and as a result, such liabilities were no longer required. However, if the IRS were to succeed in challenging the tax-free characterization of the TWC Redemption, an additional cash tax liability of up to an estimated $900 million could result.
 
The following schedule presents 2006 and 2005 supplemental pro forma information as if the Transactions had occurred on January 1, 2005. The unaudited pro forma information is presented based on information available, is intended for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of and does not purport to represent what the Company's future financial condition or operating results will be after giving effect to the Transactions and does not reflect actions that may be undertaken by management in integrating these businesses (e.g., the cost of incremental capital expenditures). In addition, this information does not reflect financial and operating benefits the Company expects to realize as a result of the Transactions (in millions, except per share data).
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
3.  Transactions with Adelphia and Comcast (Continued)
 
At the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, TWC entered into a registration rights and sale agreement (the "Adelphia Registration Rights and Sale Agreement") with Adelphia, which governed the disposition of the shares of TWC Class A common stock received by Adelphia in the Adelphia Acquisition. Upon the effectiveness of Adelphia's plan of reorganization, the parties' obligations under the Adelphia Registration Rights and Sale Agreement terminated.
 
FCC Order Approving the Transactions with Adelphia and Comcast
 
In its order approving the Adelphia Acquisition, the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") imposed conditions on TWC related to regional sports networks ("RSNs"), as defined in the order, and the resolution of disputes pursuant to the FCC's leased access regulations. In particular, the order provides that neither TWC nor its affiliates may offer an affiliated RSN on an exclusive basis to any multichannel video programming distributor ("MVPD"). Moreover, TWC may not unduly or improperly influence: (i) the decision of any affiliated RSN to sell programming to an unaffiliated MVPD; or (ii) the prices, terms, and conditions of sale of programming by an affiliated RSN to an unaffiliated MVPD. If an MVPD and an affiliated RSN cannot reach an agreement on the terms and conditions of carriage, the MVPD may elect commercial arbitration of the dispute. In addition, if an unaffiliated RSN is denied carriage by TWC, it may elect commercial arbitration to resolve the dispute. With respect to leased access, if an unaffiliated programmer is unable to reach an agreement with TWC, that programmer may elect commercial arbitration of the dispute, with the arbitrator being required to resolve the dispute using the FCC's existing rate formula relating to pricing terms. The application and scope of these conditions, which will expire in July 2012, have not yet been tested. TWC retains the right to obtain FCC and judicial review of any arbitration awards made pursuant to these conditions.
 
Dissolution of Texas/Kansas City Cable Joint Venture
 
TKCCP is a joint venture between (a partnership of TWE and the Advance/Newhouse Partnership) and Comcast serving approximately 1.6 million basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006. In accordance with the terms of the TKCCP partnership agreement, on July 3, 2006, Comcast notified TWC of its election to trigger the dissolution of the partnership and its decision to allocate all of TKCCP's debt, which totaled approximately $2 billion, to the pool of assets consisting of the Houston cable systems. On August 1, 2006, TWC notified Comcast of its election to receive the Kansas City Pool. On October 2, 2006, TWC received approximately $630 million from Comcast due to the repayment of debt owed by TKCCP to TWE-A/N that had been allocated to the Houston cable systems. Since July 1, 2006, TWC has been entitled to 100% of the economic interest in the Kansas City Pool (and recognizes such interest pursuant to the equity method of accounting), and was no longer entitled to any economic benefits of ownership from the Houston cable systems.
50-50
TWE-A/N
 
On January 1, 2007, TKCCP distributed its assets to its partners. TWC received the Kansas City Pool, which served approximately 782,000 basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006, and Comcast received the pool of assets consisting of the Houston cable systems, which served approximately 791,000 basic video subscribers as of September 30, 2006. TWC began consolidating the results of TKCCP on January 1, 2007. As a result of the asset distribution, TWC no longer has an economic interest in TKCCP. It is expected that the entity will be formally dissolved in 2007.
 
Previously, TWC received a management fee from TKCCP for management services provided to the partnership. Such management fees totaled approximately $50 million annually, approximately half of which were attributable to the Kansas City Pool and the other half of which were attributable to the Houston cable systems. Effective August 1, 2006, the Company is no longer receiving such management fees. TWC also receives fees from TKCCP for providing high-speed data network services using infrastructure from its Road Runner service. The net fees associated with such services totaled approximately $62 million annually, with $32 million attributable to the
Table of Contents
 
 
 
3.  Transactions with Adelphia and Comcast (Continued)
 
Houston cable systems and $30 million attributable to the Kansas City Pool. Upon receipt of final regulatory approvals of the dissolution, the Company will no longer receive the Road Runner service fees related to the Houston cable systems.
 
The following schedule presents selected operating statement information of the Kansas City Pool for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 (in millions).
 
 
 
 
4.  Merger-related and Restructuring Costs
 
Merger-related Costs
 
Through September 30, 2006, the Company has incurred non-capitalizable merger-related costs of approximately $37 million related primarily to consulting fees concerning integration planning for the Transactions and other costs incurred in connection with notifying new customers of the change in cable providers. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, the Company incurred costs of approximately $18 million and $29 million, respectively. Of the $8 million incurred during the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately $2 million was incurred during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005.
 
As of September 30, 2006, payments of $35 million have been made against this accrual. Of this amount, $23 million and $31 million was paid for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively. Of the $4 million paid in 2005, $1 million was paid in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005. The remaining $2 million liability was classified as a current liability in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
 
Restructuring Costs
 
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, the Company incurred restructuring costs of approximately $4 million and $14 million, respectively, primarily due to a reduction in headcount associated with efforts to reorganize the Company's operations in a more efficient manner. The three and nine months ended September 30, 2005 included $1 million and $31 million, respectively, of restructuring costs, primarily associated with the early retirement of certain senior executives and the closing of several local news channels. These actions are part of the Company's broader plans to simplify its organizational structure and enhance its customer focus.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
4.  Merger-Related and Restructuring Costs (Continued)
 
As of September 30, 2006, approximately $12 million of the remaining $20 million liability was classified as a current liability, with the remaining $8 million classified as a long-term liability in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Amounts are expected to be paid through 2011.
 
Information relating to the restructuring costs is as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
5.  Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. TWC incurs expenditures associated with the construction of its cable systems. Costs associated with the construction of the cable transmission and distribution facilities and new cable service installations are capitalized. TWC generally capitalizes expenditures for tangible fixed assets having a useful life of greater than one year. Capitalized costs include direct material, labor and overhead and interest. Sales and marketing costs, as well as the costs of repairing or maintaining existing fixed assets, are expensed as incurred. Major categories of capitalized expenditures include customer premise equipment, scalable infrastructure, line extensions, plant upgrades and rebuilds and support capital. With respect to customer premise equipment, which includes converters and cable modems, TWC capitalizes installation charges only upon the initial deployment of these assets. All costs incurred in subsequent disconnects and reconnects are expensed as incurred. Depreciation on these assets is provided, generally using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives.
 
TWC uses product-specific and, in the case of customers who have multiple products installed at once, bundle-specific standard costing models to capitalize installation activities. Significant judgment is involved in the development of these costing models, including the average time required to perform an installation and the determination of the nature and amount of indirect costs to be capitalized. Additionally, the development of standard costing models for new products such as Digital Phone involve more estimates than the standard costing models for established products because the Company has less historical data related to the installation of new products. The standard costing models are reviewed annually and adjusted prospectively, if necessary, based on comparisons to actual costs incurred.
 
In connection with the Transactions, TW NY acquired $2.473 billion of property, plant and equipment, which was recorded at its estimated fair value. The remaining useful lives assigned to such assets were generally shorter than the useful lives assigned to comparable new assets, to reflect the age, condition and intended use of the acquired property, plant and equipment.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
5.  Property, Plant and Equipment (Continued)
 
As of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the Company's property, plant and equipment and related accumulated depreciation included the following (in millions):
 
 
 
 
A summary of changes in the Company's goodwill during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
As of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the Company's other intangible assets and related accumulated amortization included the following (in millions):
 
 
The Company recorded amortization expense of $56 and $93 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively, and $17 and $54 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005, respectively. Based on the current amount of intangible assets subject to amortization, the estimated amortization expense is expected to be $75 million for the remainder of 2006, $248 million in 2007, $231 million in 2008, $229 million in 2009, $135 million in 2010 and $4 million in 2011. As acquisitions and dispositions occur in the future and as purchase price allocations are finalized, these amounts may vary.
 
The Company recorded the following intangible assets in conjunction with the Transactions (in millions):
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
7.  Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
The Company's long-term debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity, as of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, includes the following components:
 
 
 
 
TWE Notes Indenture
 
On October 18, 2006, TWC, together with TWE, TW NY Holding, certain other subsidiaries of Time Warner and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, entered into the Tenth Supplemental Indenture to the indenture (the "TWE Indenture") governing $3.2 billion of notes and debentures issued by TWE (the "TWE Notes"). Pursuant to the Tenth Supplemental Indenture to the TWE Indenture, TW NY Holding fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the payment of principal and interest on the TWE Notes. In addition, pursuant to the Ninth Supplemental Indenture to the TWE Indenture, TW NY, a subsidiary of TWC and a successor in interest to Time Warner NY Cable Inc., agreed to waive, for so long as it remained a general partner of TWE, the benefit of certain provisions in the TWE Indenture which provided that it would not have any liability for the TWE Notes as a general partner of TWE (the "TW NY Waiver"). On October 18, 2006, TW NY contributed all of its general partnership interests in TWE to
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
TWE GP Holdings LLC, its wholly owned subsidiary, and as a result, the TW NY Waiver, by its terms, ceased to be in effect.
 
On October 19, 2006, TWE commenced a consent solicitation to amend the TWE Indenture. On November 2, 2006, the consent solicitation was completed and TWE, TWC, TW NY Holding and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, entered into the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture to the TWE Indenture, which (i) amended the guaranty of the TWE Notes previously provided by TWC to provide a direct guaranty of the TWE Notes by TWC, rather than a guaranty of the TW Partner Guaranties (as defined below), (ii) terminated the guaranties (the "TW Partner Guaranties") previously provided by ATC and Warner Communications Inc. ("WCI"), which entities are subsidiaries of Time Warner, and (iii) amended TWE's reporting obligations under the TWE Indenture to allow TWE to provide holders of the TWE Notes with quarterly and annual reports that TWC (or any other ultimate parent guarantor, as described in the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture) would be required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), if it were required to file such reports with the SEC in respect of the TWE Notes pursuant to such section of the Exchange Act, subject to certain exceptions as described in the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture.
 
Bank Credit Agreements and Commercial Paper Programs
 
As of December 31, 2005, TWC and TWE were borrowers under a $4.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit agreement and maintained unsecured commercial paper programs of $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, which were supported by unused capacity under the credit facility. In the first quarter of 2006, the Company entered into $14.0 billion of new bank credit agreements, which refinanced $4.0 billion of previously existing committed bank financing, and provided additional commitments to finance, in part, the cash portions of the Transactions. The increased commitments became available concurrently with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition.
 
Following the financing transactions described above, TWC has a $6.0 billion senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility with a maturity date of February 15, 2011 (the "Cable Revolving Facility"). This represents a refinancing of TWC's previous $4.0 billion of revolving bank commitments with a maturity date of November 23, 2009, plus an increase of $2.0 billion that became effective concurrent with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition. Also effective concurrent with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition are two $4.0 billion term loan facilities (the "Cable Term Facilities" and, collectively with the Cable Revolving Facility, the "Cable Facilities"), with maturity dates of February 24, 2009 and February 21, 2011, respectively. TWE is no longer a borrower in respect of any of the Cable Facilities, although TWE has guaranteed TWC's obligations under the Cable Facilities. Additionally, as of October 18, 2006, TW NY Holding unconditionally guaranteed TWC's obligations under the Cable Facilities and TW NY was released from its guaranties of TWC's obligations under the Cable Facilities. As noted below, prior to November 2, 2006, WCI and ATC, subsidiaries of Time Warner, guaranteed TWC's obligations under the Cable Facilities.
 
Borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility bear interest at a rate based on the credit rating of TWC, which rate was LIBOR plus 0.27% per annum as of September 30, 2006. In addition, TWC is required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitments under the Cable Revolving Facility at a rate determined by the credit rating of TWC, which rate was 0.08% per annum as of September 30, 2006. TWC may also incur an additional usage fee of 0.10% per annum on the outstanding loans and other extensions of credit under the Cable Revolving Facility if and when such amounts exceed 50% of the aggregate commitments thereunder. Effective concurrent with the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, borrowings under the Cable Term Facilities bear interest at a rate based on the credit rating of TWC, which rate was LIBOR plus 0.40% per annum as of September 30, 2006.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The Cable Revolving Facility provides same-day funding capability and a portion of the commitment, not to exceed $500 million at any time, may be used for the issuance of letters of credit. The Cable Facilities contain a maximum leverage ratio covenant of 5.0 times the consolidated EBITDA of TWC. The terms and related financial metrics associated with the leverage ratio are defined in the Cable Facility agreements. At September 30, 2006, TWC was in compliance with the leverage covenant, with a leverage ratio, calculated in accordance with the agreements, of approximately 3.7 times. The Cable Facilities do not contain any credit ratings-based defaults or covenant or any ongoing covenants or representations specifically relating to a material adverse change in the financial condition or results of operations of Time Warner or TWC. Borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and unused credit is available to support borrowings under the commercial paper program. Borrowings under the Cable Term Facilities were used to finance, in part, the cash portions of the payments made in the Adelphia Acquisition and the Exchange. As of September 30, 2006, there were borrowings of $1.875 billion and letters of credit of $159 million outstanding under the Cable Revolving Facility.
 
Additionally, TWC maintains a $2.0 billion unsecured commercial paper program. Commercial paper borrowings at TWC are supported by the unused committed capacity of the Cable Revolving Facility. TWE is a guarantor of commercial paper issued by TWC. In addition, WCI and ATC have each guaranteed a pro-rata portion of TWE's obligations in respect of its guarantee of commercial paper issued by TWC. There are generally no restrictions on the ability of WCI and ATC to transfer material assets to parties that are not guarantors. The commercial paper issued by TWC ranks pari passu with TWC's other unsecured senior indebtedness. As of September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, there was approximately $1.454 billion and $1.101 billion, respectively, of commercial paper outstanding under the TWC commercial paper program. TWE's commercial paper program has been terminated.
 
On October 18, 2006, TW NY Holding executed and delivered unconditional guaranties of the obligations of TWC under the Cable Facilities. In addition, contemporaneously with the termination of the TW NY Waiver, TW NY was released from its guaranties of TWC's obligations under the Cable Facilities in accordance with the terms of the Cable Facilities. Following the adoption of the amendments to the TWE Indenture on November 2, 2006, pursuant to the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, as discussed above, the guaranties provided by ATC and WCI of TWC's obligations under the Cable Facilities were automatically terminated in accordance with the terms of the Cable Facilities.
 
On December 4, 2006, TWC entered into a new unsecured commercial paper program (the "New Program") to replace its existing $2.0 billion commercial paper program (the "Prior Program"). The New Program provides for the issuance of up to $6.0 billion of commercial paper at any time, and TWC's obligations under the New Program will be guaranteed by TW NY Holding and TWE, both subsidiaries of TWC, while TWC's obligations under the Prior Program are guaranteed by ATC, WCI (both subsidiaries of Time Warner but not TWC) and TWE. Commercial paper issued under the Prior Program and the New Program are supported by the unused committed capacity of TWC's Cable Revolving Facility.
 
No new commercial paper will be issued under the Prior Program after December 4, 2006. Amounts currently outstanding under the Prior Program have not been modified by the changes reflected in the New Program and will be repaid on the original maturity dates. Once all outstanding commercial paper under the Prior Program has been repaid, the Prior Program will terminate. Until all commercial paper outstanding under the Prior Program has been repaid, the aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding under the Prior Program and the New Program will not exceed $6.0 billion at any time.
 
TW NY Mandatorily Redeemable Non-voting Series A Preferred Membership Units
 
In connection with the financing of the Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY issued $300 million of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units to a number of third parties. The TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units pay
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
cash dividends at an annual rate equal to 8.21% of the sum of the liquidation preference thereof and any accrued but unpaid dividends thereon, on a quarterly basis. The TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units are entitled to mandatory redemption by TW NY on August 1, 2013 and are not redeemable by TW NY at any time prior to that date. The redemption price of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units is equal to their liquidation preference plus any accrued and unpaid dividends through the redemption date. Except under limited circumstances, holders of TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units have no voting rights.
 
The terms of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units require that holders owning a majority of the preferred units approve any agreement for a material sale or transfer by TW NY and its subsidiaries of assets at any time during which TW NY and its subsidiaries maintain, collectively, cable systems serving fewer than 500,000 cable subscribers, or that would (after giving effect to such asset sale) cause TW NY to maintain, directly or indirectly, fewer than 500,000 cable subscribers, unless the net proceeds of the asset sale are applied to fund the redemption of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units and the sale occurs on or immediately prior to the redemption date. Additionally, for so long as the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units remain outstanding, TW NY may not merge or consolidate with another company, or convert from a limited liability company to a corporation, partnership or other entity, unless (i) such merger or consolidation is permitted by the asset sale covenant described above, (ii) if TW NY is not the surviving entity or is no longer a limited liability company, the then holders of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units have the right to receive from the surviving entity securities with terms at least as favorable as the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units and (iii) if TW NY is the surviving entity, the tax characterization of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units would not be affected by the merger or consolidation. Any securities received from a surviving entity as a result of a merger or consolidation or the conversion into a corporation, partnership or other entity must rank senior to any other securities of the surviving entity with respect to dividends and distributions or rights upon a liquidation.
 
Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
On July 28, 2006, ATC, a subsidiary of Time Warner, contributed its $2.4 billion of mandatorily redeemable preferred equity interest and a 1% common equity interest in TWE to TW NY Holding in exchange for a 12.4% non-voting common equity interest in TW NY Holding. TWE originally issued the $2.4 billion mandatorily redeemable preferred equity to ATC in connection with the restructuring of TWE, which was completed in March 2003. The issuance was a noncash transaction. The preferred equity pays cash distributions, on a quarterly basis, at an annual rate of 8.059% of its face value, and is required to be redeemed by TWE in cash on April 1, 2023.
 
Time Warner Approval Rights
 
Under a shareholder agreement entered into between TWC and Time Warner on April 20, 2005 (the "Shareholder Agreement"), TWC is required to obtain Time Warner's approval prior to incurring additional debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or issuing preferred equity, if its consolidated ratio of debt, including preferred equity, plus six times its annual rental expense to EBITDAR (the "TW Leverage Ratio") then exceeds, or would as a result of the incurrence or issuance exceed, 3:1. Under certain circumstances, TWC also includes the indebtedness, annual rental expense obligations and EBITDAR of certain unconsolidated entities that it manages in which it owns an equity interest, in the calculation of the TW Leverage Ratio. The Shareholder Agreement defines EBITDAR, at any time of measurement, as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and rental expense (for any lease that is not accounted for as a capital lease) for the twelve months ending on the last day of TWC's most recent fiscal quarter, including certain adjustments to reflect the impact of significant transactions as if they had occurred at the beginning of the period.
and/or
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the calculation of the TW Leverage Ratio for the twelve months ended September 30, 2006 (in millions, except ratio):
 
 
As indicated in the table above, as of September 30, 2006, the TW Leverage Ratio exceeded 3:1. Although Time Warner has consented to the issuance of commercial paper under TWC's $6.0 billion commercial paper program or borrowings under the Cable Revolving Facility, any other incurrence of debt or rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) or issuance of preferred stock will require Time Warner's approval, until such time as the TW Leverage Ratio is no longer exceeded. This limits TWC's ability to incur future debt and rental expense (other than with respect to certain approved leases) and issue preferred equity without the consent of Time Warner and limits TWC's flexibility in pursuing financing alternatives and business opportunities.
 
Deferred Financing Costs
 
As of September 30, 2006, the Company has capitalized $13 million of deferred financing costs associated with entering into the Cable Facilities and the establishment of its commercial paper program and the issuance by TW NY of the TW NY Series A Preferred Membership Units. These capitalized costs are amortized over the term of the related debt facility and preferred equity and are included as a component of interest expense.
 
Maturities
 
Annual repayments of long-term debt and preferred equity are expected to occur as follows (in millions):
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
8.  Pension Costs
 
The Company has both funded and unfunded noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering a majority of its employees. Pension benefits are based on formulas that reflect the employees' years of service and compensation during their employment period and participation in the plans. The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for its plans. A summary of the components of the net periodic benefit cost from continuing operations recognized for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 are as follows (in millions):
 
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Costs
 
 
Expected Cash Flows
 
After considering the funded status of the Company's defined benefit pension plans, movements in the discount rate, investment performance and related tax consequences, the Company may choose to make contributions to its pension plan in any given year. There currently are no minimum required contributions, and no discretionary or noncash contributions are currently planned. For the Company's unfunded plan, contributions will continue to be made to the extent benefits are paid. Expected benefit payments for the unfunded plan for 2006 are approximately $2 million.
 
9.  Commitments and Contingencies
 
Prior to its 2003 restructuring, TWE had various contingent commitments, including guarantees, related to the TWE non-cable businesses. In connection with the restructuring of TWE, some of these commitments were not transferred with their applicable non-cable business and they remain contingent commitments of TWE. Time Warner and its subsidiary WCI have agreed, on a joint and several basis, to indemnify TWE from and against any and all of these contingent liabilities, but TWE remains a party to these commitments.
 
Firm Commitments
 
The Company has commitments under various firm contractual arrangements to make future payments for goods and services. These firm commitments secure future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. For example, the Company is contractually committed to make some minimum lease payments for the use of property under operating lease agreements. In accordance with current accounting rules, the future rights and obligations pertaining to these contracts are not reflected as assets or liabilities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the material firm commitments of the Company at September 30, 2006 and the timing of and effect that these obligations are expected to have on the Company's liquidity and cash flow in future periods. This table excludes certain Adelphia and Comcast commitments, which TWC did not assume, and excludes repayments on long-term debt (including capital leases) and commitments related to other entities, including certain unconsolidated equity method investees. TWC expects to fund these firm commitments with cash provided by operating activities generated in the normal course of business.
 
 
 
 
The Company's total rent expense, which primarily includes facility rental expense and pole attachment rental fees, amounted to $39 million and $106 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively, and $14 million and $70 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2005, respectively.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
Securities Matters
 
In July 2005, Time Warner reached an agreement for the settlement of the primary securities class action pending against it. The settlement is reflected in a written agreement between the lead plaintiff and Time Warner. In connection with reaching the agreement in principle on the securities class action, Time Warner established a reserve of $2.4 billion during the second quarter of 2005. Pursuant to the settlement, in October 2005, Time Warner paid $2.4 billion into a settlement fund (the "MSBI Settlement Fund") for the members of the class represented in the action. The court issued an order dated April 6, 2006 granting final approval of the settlement, and the time to appeal that decision has expired. In connection with the settlement, the $150 million previously paid by Time Warner into a fund in connection with the settlement of the investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") was transferred to the MSBI Settlement Fund. In addition, the $300 million Time Warner previously paid in connection with the settlement of its SEC investigation will be distributed to investors through the settlement pursuant to an order issued by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on July 11, 2006. The administration of the settlement is ongoing.
 
During the second quarter of 2005, Time Warner also established an additional reserve totaling $600 million in connection with a number of other related securities litigation matters that were pending against Time Warner,
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
including shareholder derivative suits (the settlement of which was granted final approval by the court in an opinion dated September 6, 2006), individual securities actions (including suits brought by individual shareholders who decided to "opt-out" of the settlement in the primary securities class action) and the three putative class action lawsuits alleging Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA") violations, as described below.
 
In 2005, Time Warner reached an agreement with the carriers on its directors and officers insurance policies in connection with the related securities and derivative action matters (other than the actions alleging violations of ERISA described below). As a result of this agreement, in the fourth quarter, Time Warner recorded a recovery of approximately $185 million (bringing the total 2005 recoveries to $206 million), which was collected in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Time Warner's settlement of the primary securities class action and payment of the $2.4 billion into the MSBI Settlement Fund, the settlement of some of the other related securities matters and the establishment of the additional $600 million reserve, and the oral understanding with the insurance carriers have no impact on the consolidated financial statements of TWC.
 
During the Fall of 2002 and Winter of 2003, three putative class action lawsuits were filed alleging violations of ERISA in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of current and former participants in the Time Warner Savings Plan, the Time Warner Thrift Plan the TWC Savings Plan (the "Plans"). Collectively, these lawsuits named as defendants Time Warner, certain current and former directors and officers of Time Warner and members of the Administrative Committees of the Plans. One of these cases also named TWE as a defendant. The lawsuits alleged that Time Warner and other defendants breached certain fiduciary duties to plan participants by, continuing to offer Time Warner stock as an investment under the Plans, and by failing to disclose, among other things, that Time Warner was experiencing declining advertising revenues and that Time Warner was inappropriately inflating advertising revenues through various transactions. The complaints sought unspecified damages and unspecified equitable relief. The ERISA actions were consolidated with other Time Warner-related shareholder lawsuits and derivative actions under the caption in the Southern District of New York. On July 3, 2003, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint naming additional defendants, including TWE, certain current and former officers, directors and employees of Time Warner and Fidelity Management Trust Company. On September 12, 2003, Time Warner filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated ERISA complaint. On March 9, 2005, the court granted in part and denied in part Time Warner's motion to dismiss. The court dismissed two individual defendants and TWE for all purposes, dismissed other individuals with respect to claims plaintiffs had asserted involving the TWC Savings Plan, and dismissed all individuals who were named in a claim asserting that their stock sales had constituted a breach of fiduciary duty to the Plans. Time Warner filed an answer to the consolidated ERISA complaint on May 20, 2005. On January 17, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. On the same day, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment on the basis that plaintiffs could not establish loss causation for any of their claims and therefore had no recoverable damages, as well as a motion for judgment on the pleadings on the basis that plaintiffs did not have standing to bring their claims. The parties reached an agreement to resolve this matter, and submitted their settlement agreement and associated documentation to the court for approval. A preliminary approval hearing was held on April 26, 2006 and the court granted preliminary approval of the settlement in an opinion dated May 1, 2006. A final approval hearing was held on July 19, 2006, and the court granted final approval of the settlement in an order dated September 27, 2006. On October 25, 2006, one of the objectors to this settlement filed a notice of appeal of this decision. The court has yet to rule on plaintiffs' petition for attorneys' fees and expenses. As these matters are Time Warner related, no impact has been reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company.
and/or
inter alia,
In re AOL Time Warner Inc. Securities and "ERISA" Litigation
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Government Investigations
 
As previously disclosed by the Company, the SEC and the DOJ had been conducting investigations into accounting and disclosure practices of Time Warner. Those investigations focused on advertising transactions, principally involving Time Warner's AOL segment, the methods used by the AOL segment to report its subscriber numbers and the accounting related to Time Warner's interest in AOL Europe prior to January 2002.
 
Time Warner and its subsidiary, AOL, entered into a settlement with the DOJ in December 2004 that provided for a deferred prosecution arrangement for a two-year period. As part of the settlement with the DOJ, in December 2004, Time Warner paid a penalty of $60 million and established a $150 million fund, which Time Warner could use to settle related securities litigation. During October 2005, the $150 million was transferred by Time Warner into the MSBI Settlement Fund for the members of the class covered by the consolidated securities class action described above.
 
In addition, on March 21, 2005, Time Warner announced that the SEC had approved Time Warner's proposed settlement, which resolved the SEC's investigation of Time Warner.
 
Under the terms of the settlement with the SEC, Time Warner agreed, without admitting or denying the SEC's allegations, to be enjoined from future violations of certain provisions of the securities laws and to comply with the order issued by the SEC to AOL in May 2000. The settlement also required Time Warner to:
cease-and-desist
 
 
Time Warner paid the $300 million penalty in March 2005. As described above, the district court judge presiding over the $300 million fund has approved the SEC's plan to distribute the monies to investors through the settlement in the consolidated class action, as provided in its order. Historical accounting adjustments related to the SEC settlement were reflected in the restatement of Time Warner's financial results for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2003 included in Time Warner's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Form 10-K
 
During the third quarter of 2006, the independent examiner completed his review and, in accordance with the terms of the SEC settlement, provided a report to Time Warner's audit and finance committee of his conclusions. As a result of the conclusions, Time Warner's consolidated financial results were restated for each of the years ended December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2005 and for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and the three and six months ended June 30, 2006. The impact of the adjustments made is reflected in amendments to Time Warner's
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2005 and Time Warner's Quarterly Reports on for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006, each of which were filed with the SEC on September 13, 2006. In addition, the Company restated its consolidated financial results for each of the years ended December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2005 and for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and the three and six months ended June 30, 2006. See discussion of "Restatement of Prior Financial Information" in Note 1.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q
 
The payments made by Time Warner pursuant to the DOJ and SEC settlements have no impact on the consolidated financial statements of TWC.
 
Other Matters
 
On May 20, 2006, the America Channel LLC filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota against both TWC and Comcast alleging that the purchase of Adelphia by Comcast and TWC will injure competition in the cable system and cable network markets and violate the federal antitrust laws. The lawsuit seeks monetary damages as well as an injunction blocking the Adelphia Acquisition. The United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York issued an order enjoining the America Channel from pursuing injunctive relief in the District of Minnesota and ordering that the America Channel's efforts to enjoin the transaction can only be heard in the Southern District of New York, where the Adelphia bankruptcy is pending. The America Channel's appeal of this order was dismissed on October 10, 2006, and its claim for injunctive relief should now be moot. The America Channel, however, has announced its intention to proceed with its damages case in the District of Minnesota. On September 19, 2006, the Company filed a motion to dismiss this action. The Company intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously, but is unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On June 22, 2005, Mecklenburg County filed suit against TWE-A/N in the General Court of Justice District Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. Mecklenburg County, the franchisor in TWE-A/N's Mecklenburg County cable system, alleges that TWE-A/N's predecessor failed to construct an institutional network in 1981 and that TWE-A/N assumed that obligation upon the transfer of the franchise in 1995. Mecklenburg County is seeking compensatory damages and TWE-A/N's release of certain video channels it is currently using on the cable system. TWE-A/N intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously, but is unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On June 16, 1998, plaintiffs in filed a purported nation-wide class action in U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York claiming that TWE sold its subscribers' personally identifiable information and failed to inform subscribers of their privacy rights in violation of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 and common law. The plaintiffs sought damages and declaratory and injunctive relief. On August 6, 1998, TWE filed a motion to dismiss, which was denied on September 7, 1999. On December 8, 1999, TWE filed a motion to deny class certification, which was granted on January 9, 2001 with respect to monetary damages, but denied with respect to injunctive relief. On June 2, 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the District Court's decision denying class certification as a matter of law and remanded the case for further proceedings on class certification and other matters. On May 4, 2004, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification, which the Company opposed. This lawsuit has been settled on terms that are not material to TWC. The court granted preliminary approval of the class settlement on October 25, 2005. A final settlement approval hearing was held on May 19, 2006, and the parties are awaiting the court's decision. At this time, there can be no assurance that final approval of the settlement will be granted.
Andrew Parker and Eric DeBrauwere, et al. v. Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. and Time Warner Cable
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Patent Litigation
 
On September 1, 2006, Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, L.P. filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that TWC and several other cable operators, among others, infringe a number of patents purportedly relating to the Company's customer call center operations, voicemail services. The plaintiff is seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. The Company intends to defend against the claim vigorously, but is unable to predict the outcome of the suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
and/or
video-on-demand
 
On July 14, 2006, Hybrid Patents Inc. filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that the Company and a number of other cable operators infringed a patent purportedly relating to high-speed data and Internet-based telephony services. The complaint has not yet been served. The plaintiff is seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. The Company intends to defend against the claim vigorously, but is unable to predict the outcome of the suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On June 1, 2006, Rembrandt Technologies, LP filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that the Company and a number of other cable operators infringed several patents purportedly related to a variety of technologies, including high-speed data and Internet-based telephony services. In addition, on September 13, 2006, Rembrandt Technologies, LP filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that the Company infringes several patents purportedly related to "high-speed cable modem internet products and services." In each of these cases, the plaintiff is seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. The Company intends to defend against these lawsuits vigorously, but is unable to predict the outcome of these suits or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On July 14, 2005, Forgent Networks, Inc. ("Forgent") filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that TWC and a number of other cable operators and direct broadcast satellite operators infringe a patent related to digital video recorder technology. TWC is working closely with its DVR equipment vendors in defense of this matter, certain of whom have filed a declaratory judgment lawsuit against Forgent alleging the patent cited by Forgent to be non-infringed, invalid and unenforceable. Forgent is seeking unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief in its suit against TWC. The Company intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously, but is unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
 
On April 26, 2005, Acacia Media Technologies Corporation ("AMT") filed suit against TWC in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that TWC infringes several patents held by AMT. AMT has publicly taken the position that delivery of broadcast video (except live programming such as sporting events), and ad insertion services over cable systems infringe their patents. AMT has brought similar actions regarding the same patents against numerous other entities, and all of the previously pending litigations have been made the subject of a multi-district litigation ("MDL") order consolidating the actions for pretrial activity in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. On October 25, 2005, the TWC action was consolidated into the MDL proceedings. The plaintiff is seeking unspecified monetary damages as well as injunctive relief. The Company intends to defend against this lawsuit vigorously, but is unable to predict the outcome of this suit or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.
Pay-Per-View,
Video-on-Demand
 
From time to time, the Company receives notices from third parties claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require TWC to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. In addition, certain agreements entered into by the Company may require the Company to indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase the Company's damages and its costs of defending against such claims. Even if the claims are without merit, defending against the claims can be time-consuming and costly.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
As part of the restructuring of TWE in March 2003, Time Warner agreed to indemnify the cable businesses of TWE from and against any and all liabilities relating to, arising out of or resulting from specified litigation matters brought against the TWE non-cable businesses. Although Time Warner has agreed to indemnify the cable businesses of TWE against such liabilities, TWE remains a named party in certain litigation matters.
 
In the normal course of business, the Company's tax returns are subject to examination by various domestic taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments on the Company. In instances where the Company believes that it is probable that it will be assessed, it has accrued a liability. The Company does not believe that these liabilities are material, individually or in the aggregate, to its financial condition or liquidity. Similarly, the Company does not expect the final resolution of tax examinations to have a material impact on the Company's financial results.
 
The costs and other effects of pending or future litigation, governmental investigations, legal and administrative cases and proceedings (whether civil or criminal), settlements, judgments and investigations, claims and changes in those matters (including those matters described above), and developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights and intellectual property licenses, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and operating results.
 
 
Other Cash Flow Information
 
Additional financial information with respect to cash (payments) and receipts is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Noncash financing and investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2006 included shares of TWC's common stock, valued at $5.5 billion, delivered as part of the purchase price for the assets acquired in the Adelphia Acquisition, mandatorily redeemable preferred equity, valued at $2.4 billion, contributed by ATC to TW NY Holding, Urban Cable, with a fair value of $190 million, transferred as part of the Exchange and cable systems with a fair value of $3.1 billion transferred by TWC in the Redemptions.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Interest Expense, Net
 
Interest expense, net consists of (in millions):
 
 
Video, High-Speed Data and Digital Phone Direct Costs
 
Direct costs associated with the video, high-speed data and Digital Phone products (included within costs of revenues) consist of (in millions):
 
 
The direct costs associated with the video product include video programming costs. The direct costs associated with the high-speed data and Digital Phone products include network connectivity and certain other costs.
 
Other Current Liabilities
 
Other current liabilities consist of (in millions):
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
There have been no changes in or disagreements with our independent accountants during the two most recent fiscal years.
Table of Contents
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(a) Financial Statements
 
See the index to financial statements on page 174 for our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, our unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 and 2006, our quarterly financial information for 2004, 2005 and 2006 and our Financial Statement Schedule II  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006.
 
Adelphia Communications Corporation's audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 and Adelphia Communications Corporation's unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 are included as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
Comcast Corporation's Audited Special Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas and Cleveland Cable System Operations (a Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation) as of and for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 and the Unaudited Special Purpose Combined Carve-Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas and Cleveland Cable System Operations (a Carve-Out of Comcast Corporation) as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 are included as exhibits 99.3 and 99.4, respectively.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
See "Index to Exhibits" following the signature page of this Current Report on
Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
 
Name: John K. Martin
 
Date: February 13, 2007
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 2.18
          This CONTRIBUTION AND SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 2006 (this ""), by and among AMERICAN TELEVISION AND COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), TW NY CABLE HOLDING INC., a Delaware corporation (""), Time Warner NY Cable LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), and TWE Holdings, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""). For the purposes of this Agreement, "ATC Partnership Interest" shall have the meaning set forth in the Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. (""), dated as of March 31, 2003, as amended (the "").
Agreement
ATC
TW NY Holding
TW NY
TWE Holdings
TWE
TWE Agreement
          WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Contribution Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2005 (the ""), by and between ATC and TW NY, ATC has agreed to contribute all of its partnership interests in TWE to TW NY Holding in exchange for newly issued shares of non-voting common stock of such subsidiary of TWC;
ATC Contribution Agreement
          WHEREAS, immediately after it accepts such ATC Partnership Interest from ATC, TW NY Holding desires to contribute the ATC Partnership Interest to TW NY;
          WHEREAS, the obligations of the parties to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the prior satisfaction of the obligations or waiver of the conditions set forth in Section 4 (Conditions) of the ATC Contribution Agreement;
          WHEREAS, TW NY Holding is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and the parent of TW NY; and
TWC
          WHEREAS, the parties intend that each of the First Contribution (as defined herein) and the Second Contribution (as defined herein) contemplated hereby shall qualify under Section 351 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of other good and valuable consideration the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          1. . On the terms and subject to the conditions contained in this Agreement, ATC, effective from the date hereof, agrees to contribute, convey, grant, sell, transfer, set over, assign, bargain, release, deliver and confirm (collectively, "") unto TW NY Holding, and TW NY Holding agrees to accept such transfer from ATC, the ATC Partnership Interest (the ""). The First Contribution is made with the intention that ATC will be terminated as a limited partner of TWE and released of all obligations and all liabilities as a limited partner of TWE. TW NY Holding hereby assumes, and agrees to indemnify and hold harmless ATC from, all of the respective rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of ATC under the TWE Agreement. Immediately following the First Contribution and in accordance with Section 3.1 (Disposition; Additional Partners) of the TWE Agreement, TW NY Holding shall (i) be admitted to TWE as a substitute limited partner, (ii) succeed to the rights and assume the obligations of ATC as set forth in this
Contribution of Ownership Interests to TW NY Holding
transfer
First Contribution
 
Agreement and the ATC Contribution Agreement and (iii) be subject to the terms and conditions applicable to a Limited Partner (as defined in the TWE Agreement) of TWE.
          2. . On the terms and subject to the conditions contained in this Agreement and in accordance with the terms of the ATC Contribution Agreement, in consideration of the First Contribution, TW NY Holding agrees to issue, sell and deliver to ATC 14.1974 shares of Class B Common Stock of TW NY Holding, which shares shall represent 12.4323% of the outstanding equity interest of TW NY Holding after giving effect of such issuance (the "").
Issuance of Units by Transferee
Issued Equity Interests
          3. . ATC hereby subscribes for 14.1974 shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of TW NY Holding for an aggregate consideration consisting of the ATC Partnership Interest and hereby:
Subscription of the Issued Equity Interests by ATC
                (a) acknowledges that ATC has had access to the same kind of information concerning TW NY Holding that is required by Schedule A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), as amended, to the extent that TW NY Holding possesses such information;
Securities Act
                (b) represents and warrants that ATC has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that ATC is capable of utilizing the information that is available to ATC concerning TW NY Holding to evaluate the risks of investment in TW NY Holding;
                (c) acknowledges that ATC has been advised that the Issued Equity Interests have not been registered under the Securities Act and, accordingly, that ATC may not be able to sell or otherwise dispose of the Issued Equity Interests when ATC wishes to do so;
                (d) represents and warrants that the Issued Equity Interests are being issued to ATC for ATC's sole benefit and account for investment and not with a view to, or for resale in connection with, a public offering or distribution thereof;
                (e) agrees that the Issued Equity Interests will not be resold (a) without registration thereof under the Securities Act (unless an exemption from such registration is available) or (b) in violation of any law;
                (f) consents that the certificate or certificates representing the Issued Equity Interests may be impressed with a legend indicating that the Issued Equity Interests are not registered under the Securities Act and reciting that transfer thereof is restricted; and
                (g) consents that stop transfer instructions in respect of the Issued Equity Interests may be issued to any transfer agent, transfer clerk or other agent at any time acting for TW NY Holding.
          4. . Immediately following the First Contribution, TW NY Holding by this Agreement does hereby transfer unto TW NY, and the TW NY does hereby agree to accept from TW NY Holding, the ATC Partnership Interest (the ""). The Second Contribution is made with
Contribution by TW NY Holding of ATC Partnership Interest
Second Contribution
 
the intention that TW NY Holding will be terminated as a limited partner of TWE and released of all obligations and all liabilities as a limited partner of TWE. TW NY hereby assumes, and agrees to indemnify and hold harmless TW NY Holding from, all of the respective rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of TW NY Holding under the TWE Agreement. Immediately following the Second Contribution and in accordance with Section 3.1 (Disposition; Additional Partners) of the TWE Agreement, TW NY shall (i) be admitted to TWE as a substitute limited partner, (ii) succeed to the rights and assume the obligations of TW NY Holding as set forth in this Agreement and (iii) be subject to the terms and conditions applicable to a Limited Partner (as defined in the TWE Agreement) of TWE.
          5. .
Resulting Percentage Interests
                (a) Prior to the Second Contribution and immediately after giving effect to the First Contribution, the Percentage Interests (as defined in the TWE Agreement) of the General Partners (as defined in the TWE Agreement) and the Limited Partners (as defined in the TWE Agreement) are as follows:
                (b) Following the Second Contribution, the Percentage Interests (as defined in the TWE Agreement) of the General Partners (as defined in the TWE Agreement) and the Limited Partners (as defined in the TWE Agreement) are as follows:
 
          6. .
References to the ATC Partnership Interest
                (a) The parties hereto hereby agree to amend the TWE Agreement such that, prior to the Second Contribution and immediately after giving effect to the First Contribution, TW NY Holding shall be admitted as a Limited Partner (as defined in the TWE Agreement) and references in the TWE Agreement to "," including for purposes of the definitions of "," "," "," "" and "," shall be deemed to refer to TW NY Holding.
ATC
ATC Capital Account
ATC Partnership Interest
ATC Common Sub-Account
ATC Percentage Interest
ATC Preferred Sub-Account
                (b) The parties hereto hereby agree to amend the TWE Agreement such that, following the Second Contribution, TW NY shall be admitted as a Limited Partner (as defined in the TWE Agreement) and references in the TWE Agreement to "," including for purposes of the definitions of "," "," "," "" and "" shall be deemed to refer to TW NY.
ATC
ATC Capital Account
ATC Partnership Interest
ATC Common Sub-Account
ATC Percentage Interest
ATC Preferred Sub-Account
          7. . Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended or shall be construed to confer upon, or give to, any person, firm, corporation or other entity other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns any remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement or any terms, covenants or conditions hereof, and all of the terms, covenants, conditions, promises and agreements contained in this Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries
          8. . Each of the parties hereby agrees that it will hereafter execute any further instruments of assignment, transfer or conveyance as may be necessary or desirable to effectuate the purposes hereof.
Further Assurances
          9. . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
          10. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (other than its rules of conflicts of laws to the extent that the application of the law of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
Governing Law
          11. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts (including by facsimile), each of which shall be an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          12. . The parties hereby agree that the ATC Contribution Agreement is hereby amended to permit the parties thereto to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby prior to the Adelphia Closing (as defined in the ATC Contribution Agreement) and notwithstanding Section 4 thereof, subject to their good faith belief that the conditions under the Asset Purchase Agreement (as defined in the ATC Contribution Agreement) have been or are reasonably expected to be satisfied.
Amendment to the ATC Contribution Agreement
 
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed on the date first above written.

 
Exhibit 3.1
          TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), hereby certifies pursuant to Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "" ), as follows:
Corporation
DGCL
          A. The Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation was originally filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on March 21, 2003 under the name New MOTH Holdings, Inc., and a Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on March 31, 2003 under the name MOTH Holdings, Inc. (collectively, the "").
Original Certificate of Incorporation
          B. The amendments to the Original Certificate of Incorporation herein certified have been duly adopted in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the DGCL and by the written consent of stockholders in accordance with Section 228 of the DGCL.
          C. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "") amends and restates the Original Certificate of Incorporation as authorized by the Corporation's Board of Directors (the "") in accordance with the requirements of the DGCL.
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
Board of Directors
          D. The text of the Original Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended and restated to read as herein set forth in full:
          The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the "Corporation") is TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
          The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
          The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the DGCL.
 
          Section 1. . The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 26,000,000,000 shares, consisting of (1) 1,000,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Preferred Stock"), (2) 20,000,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Class A Common Stock"), and (3) 5,000,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Class B Common Stock" and, together with the Class A Common Stock, the "Common Stock").
Authorized Capital
          Section 2. . For purposes of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation:
Certain Defined Terms
          "" shall mean the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2005, between Adelphia Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and Time Warner NY Cable LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a Subsidiary of the Corporation, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Adelphia Agreement
          "" shall mean, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person who or which, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such specified Person.
Affiliate
          "" shall mean the earlier of (i) the date upon which shares of the Common Stock shall have been sold in an initial public offering (whether a primary or secondary offering) of the Corporation pursuant to an effective registration statement filed by the Corporation and (ii) the date upon which shares of the Common Stock shall have been issued pursuant to the Adelphia Agreement.
Initial Offering Date
          "" shall mean any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, firm, group (as such term is used under Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), joint venture, association, trust, unincorporated organization, estate, trust or other entity.
Person
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any entity, whether incorporated or unincorporated, of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other body performing similar functions are at any time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or by one or more of its respective Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
          "" shall mean Time Warner Inc. and all Affiliates thereof (other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries).
TWX
          "" shall mean, for all purposes under this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock and any other securities of the Corporation entitled to vote on all matters
Voting Stock
 
on which both the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock are generally entitled to vote.
          "" shall mean the total number of authorized directors, including any vacancies or unfilled newly-created directorships, excluding any Preferred Stock Directors (as hereinafter defined).
Whole Board
          Section 3. . The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized to provide, out of the unissued shares of Preferred Stock, for one or more series of Preferred Stock and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series. The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each series of Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding.
Preferred Stock
          Section 4. . Each of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock is subject to all the powers, rights, privileges, preferences and priorities of any series of Preferred Stock as shall be stated and expressed herein or as shall be stated and expressed in any Certificates of Designations filed with respect to any series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the authority expressly granted to and vested in the Board of Directors by the provisions of Section 3 of this Article IV.
Priority of Preferred Stock
          Section 5. .
Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock
               (a) .
Voting Rights
                    (i) Except as otherwise required by the DGCL or as provided by or pursuant to the provisions of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including, without limitation, any certificate filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware establishing the terms of a series of Preferred Stock in accordance with Section 3 of this Article IV):
                    (1) each holder of Class A Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share of Class A Common Stock held of record by such holder with respect to the election of Class A Directors (as hereinafter defined) as provided in Article V of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and on all other matters on which holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to vote; and
                    (2) each holder of Class B Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to ten (10) votes for each share of Class B Common Stock held of record by such holder with respect to the election of Class B Directors (as hereinafter defined) as provided in Article V of this Amended and Restated
 
Certificate of Incorporation and on all other matters on which holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to vote.
                    (ii) The holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall vote together as a single class on all matters on which stockholders are generally entitled to vote, except as otherwise required by the DGCL or as provided by or pursuant to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including, without limitation, as provided in Article V of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation).
               (b) . Subject to the DGCL and the rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over or the right to participate with the Common Stock with respect to the payment of dividends, dividends may be declared and paid on the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock at such times and in such amounts as the Board of Directors in its discretion shall determine; that the Board of Directors shall declare no dividend, and no dividend shall be paid, with respect to any outstanding share of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, whether paid in cash or property (including, without limitation, shares of Class A Common Stock paid on or with respect to shares of Class A Common Stock or shares of Class B Common Stock paid on or with respect to shares of Class B Common Stock (collectively, "Stock Dividends")), unless, simultaneously, the same dividend (which, in the case of Stock Dividends, shall be stock of the class on or with respect to which the dividend is paid) is paid with respect to each share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Stock Dividends with respect to Class A Common Stock may only be paid with shares of Class A Common Stock. Stock Dividends with respect to Class B Common Stock may only be paid with shares of Class B Common Stock.
Dividends
provided
               (c) . Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over or the right to participate with the Common Stock with respect to the distribution of assets of the Corporation upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to receive the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders ratably in proportion to the number of shares held by them, as a single class.
Liquidation Rights
          Section 6. . Neither the Class A Common Stock nor the Class B Common Stock may be subdivided, consolidated, reclassified or otherwise changed unless contemporaneously therewith the other class of Common Stock is subdivided, consolidated, reclassified or otherwise changed in the same proportion and in the same manner.
Reclassifications
          Section 7. . In addition to any other vote required by law, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common
Mergers, Consolidations, etc
 
Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to approve (i) any merger, consolidation or business combination of the Corporation with or into another corporation, whether or not the Corporation is the surviving corporation; that any such transaction in which the holders of shares of Class A Common Stock do not receive per share consideration identical (other than with respect to voting rights) to that received by the holders of Class B Common Stock or that would otherwise adversely affect the specific rights and privileges of holders of the Class A Common Stock relative to the effect on the specific rights and privileges of the holders of Class B Common Stock shall also require the approval of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by persons other than TWX or (ii) any sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, in each case only if such action is otherwise required to be approved by the stockholders of the Corporation under the DGCL or any other applicable law or stock exchange rule or regulation.
provided
          Section 8. . Except as otherwise set forth in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock shall be identical in all respects.
Other
          Section 1. Certain Defined Terms. 
               (a) For purposes of this Article V:
          "" shall mean the by-laws of the Corporation, as amended from time to time.
By-laws
          "" shall mean those persons elected as Class A Directors to the Board of Directors pursuant to this Article V. The number of authorized Class A Directors shall at no time constitute (i) less than one-sixth (1/6) of the Whole Board or one (1), whichever is greater, or (ii) greater than one-fifth (1/5) of the Whole Board.
Class A Directors
          "" shall mean those persons elected as Class B Directors pursuant to this Article V. The number of authorized Class B Directors shall at no time constitute less than four-fifths (4/5) of the Whole Board.
Class B Directors
          "" means a director who is "Independent," as that term is defined in Section 303.01 or successor provision of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange, as such rules may be amended from time to time.
Independent Director
          "" shall mean directors elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock provided for or fixed pursuant to the provisions of Article IV hereof.
Preferred Stock Directors
          Section 2. . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors and, except as otherwise expressly provided by the DGCL or this
General Powers of Directors
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, all of the powers of the Corporation shall be vested in such Board of Directors.
          Section 3. . Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, the number of the directors of the Corporation shall be as fixed from time to time pursuant to the By-laws.
Number of Directors
          Section 4. .
Election of Directors
               (a) . The Class A Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares of Class A Common Stock present in person or represented by proxy at each annual meeting of stockholders and entitled to vote on the election of Class A Directors. Each Class A Director so elected shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.
Class A Directors
               (b) . The Class B Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares of Class B Common Stock, present in person or represented by proxy at each annual meeting of stockholders and entitled to vote on the election of Class B Directors. Each Class B Director so elected shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.
Class B Directors
               (c) . Any Class A Director or Class B Director may be removed from office without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the votes represented by the shares then outstanding and entitled to vote in the election of such Class A Directors or Class B Directors, as the case may be. In addition, any Class A Director or Class B Director may be removed for cause as provided in the DGCL.
Removal of Directors; Qualification
               (d) . Any and all vacancies and newly created directorships in respect of Class A Directors, however occurring, including, without limitation, by reason of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors, or the death, resignation, disqualification or removal of a director, shall be filled by a majority of Class A Directors then serving on the Board of Directors or, if no Class A Director is then serving on the Board of Directors, by a majority of all directors then serving on the Board of Directors. Any and all vacancies and newly created directorships in respect of Class B Directors, however occurring, including, without limitation, by reason of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors, or the death, resignation, disqualification or removal of a director, shall be filled by a majority of Class B Directors then serving on the Board of Directors or, if no Class B Director is then serving on the Board of Directors, by a majority of all directors then serving on the Board of Directors. Any
Vacancies
 
director elected in accordance with this Section 4(d) of this Article V shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. In the event of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, the remaining directors, except as otherwise provided by law, may exercise the powers of the full Board of Directors until such vacancy is filled.
     Section 5. . Advance notice of nominations for the election of directors shall be given in the manner and to the extent provided in the By-laws.
Notice
     Section 6. . Prior to the Initial Offering Date, there shall at all times be at least two Independent Directors on the Board of Directors. Following the Initial Offering Date, the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange governing board composition will be met; that, in any event, at least 50% of the Board of Directors of the Corporation will consist of Independent Directors for at least three years following the Initial Offering Date.
Independence of Board of Directors
provided
     Subject to the proviso to the second sentence of this Article VI, in furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred upon it by law, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, repeal, alter or amend the By-laws of the Corporation. In addition to any requirements of law and any other provision of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors duly adopted pursuant to Article IV of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with respect to any Preferred Stock (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any such resolution or resolutions), the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required for stockholders to adopt, amend, alter or repeal any provision of the By-laws of the Corporation; that, in addition to any vote required under this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Article VI of the By-laws (Transactions With Affiliates) may not be repealed, altered or amended, and no provision of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the By-laws inconsistent therewith may be adopted, except (A) through and until the fifth anniversary of the Initial Offering Date, by the stockholders of the Corporation (as provided above) and the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by persons other than TWX and (B) after the fifth anniversary of the Initial Offering Date, by (i) the Board of Directors (as provided above) and the approval of a majority of the total number of the Independent Directors then serving on the Board of Directors or (ii) the stockholders of the Corporation (as provided above) and the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by persons other than TWX.
provided
 
          The Corporation hereby expressly states that it shall not be bound or governed by, or otherwise subject to, Section 203 of the DGCL.
          Section 1. Defined Terms. For purposes of this Article VIII: 
          "" shall mean an investment or business opportunity or prospective economic advantage in which the Corporation could, but for the provisions of this Article VIII, have an interest or expectancy.
Corporate Opportunity
          Section 2. . Except as otherwise expressly provided in an agreement between or among the Corporation and any stockholder or stockholders or in a general policy of the Corporation applicable to the employees of the Corporation, (i) the stockholders of the Corporation (including, without limitation, TWX and its officers, employees, directors, agents, stockholders, members, partners and Affiliates) may engage or invest in, independently or with others, any business activity of any type or description, including, without limitation, those that might be the same as or similar to the Corporation's business; (ii) neither the Corporation nor any other stockholder of the Corporation shall have any right in or to such business activities or ventures or to receive or share in any income or proceeds derived therefrom; and (iii) the Corporation shall have no interest or expectancy, and hereby specifically renounces any interest or expectancy, in any such business activities or ventures.
Competing Activities
          Section 3. .
Corporate Opportunities
               (a) If TWX (or any of its officers, employees, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners) acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a Corporate Opportunity or otherwise is then exploiting any Corporate Opportunity, subject to Section 3(b) below, the Corporation shall have no interest in such Corporate Opportunity and no expectancy that such Corporate Opportunity be offered to the Corporation, any such interest or expectancy being hereby renounced, so that, as a result of such renunciation, and for the avoidance of doubt, such Person (i) shall have no duty to communicate or present such Corporate Opportunity to the Corporation, (ii) shall have the right to hold any such Corporate Opportunity for its (and/or its officers', directors', agents', stockholders', members' or partners') own account or to recommend, sell, assign or transfer such Corporate Opportunity to Persons other than the Corporation, and (iii) shall not breach any fiduciary duty to the Corporation, in such Person's capacity as a stockholder of the Corporation, by reason of the fact that such Person pursues or acquires such Corporate Opportunity for itself, directs, sells, assigns or transfers such Corporate Opportunity to another Person, or does not communicate information regarding such Corporate Opportunity to the Corporation.
               (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3(a) of this Article VIII, the Corporation does not renounce any interest or expectancy it may have in
 
any Corporate Opportunity that is offered to any Person who is an officer or employee of the Corporation, even if such Person is a stockholder of TWX, if such opportunity is expressly offered to such person in his or her capacity as an officer or employee of the Corporation.
               (c) For purposes of this Article VIII only, (i) a director of the Corporation who is Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or of a committee thereof shall not be deemed to be an officer of the Corporation by reason of holding such position (without regard to whether such position is deemed to be the position of an officer of the corporation under the By-laws of the Corporation), unless such person is a full-time employee of the Corporation; and (ii) the term "Corporation" shall mean the Corporation and all corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, associations and other entities in which the Corporation beneficially owns (directly or indirectly) 50% or more of the outstanding voting stock, voting power, partnership interests or similar voting interests.
          Section 4. . Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including, without limitation, this Article VIII.
Notice to Holders
          In addition to any requirements of law and any other provisions of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors adopted pursuant to Article IV of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with respect to any Preferred Stock (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any such resolution or resolutions), both the approval of the Board of Directors and the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; that, in addition to any vote required by law or under this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, both the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by persons other than TWX and the approval of a majority of the total number of Independent Directors then serving on the Board of Directors shall be required to amend, alter or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, (a) this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, if such action would have a material adverse effect on the rights of the holders of the Class A Common Stock in a manner different from the effect on the rights of the holders of the Class B Common Stock or (b) Section 7 of Article IV (Mergers, Consolidations etc.), Section 6 of Article V (Independence of Board of Directors), Article VI or this Article IX, in each case, of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article IX, the Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter or repeal any provision contained in this Amended and Restated Certificate of
provided
 
Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are subject to this reservation.
          To the fullest extent that the DGCL as it exists or as it may hereafter be amended permits the limitation or elimination of the liability of directors, no director of the Corporation shall be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. No amendment to or repeal of this Article X shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be duly executed in its corporate name by its duly authorized officer.
Dated: July 27, 2006
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Time Warner Cable Inc.

 
Exhibit 3.2
          Section 1. The registered office of TIME WARNER CABLE INC. (hereinafter called the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware 19801, and the registered agent shall be The Corporation Trust Company, or such other office or agent as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") shall from time to time select.
Registered Office.
          Section 2. The Corporation may also have an office or offices, and keep the books and records of the Corporation, except as may otherwise be required by law, at such other place or places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices.
          Section 1. All meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation (the "stockholders") shall be held at such place as may be determined by the Board.
Place of Meeting.
          Section 2. The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on such date and at such hour as shall from time to time be fixed by the Board. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of the stockholders may be postponed by action of the Board taken prior to the time previously scheduled for such annual meeting of the stockholders.
Annual Meetings.
          Section 3. Except as otherwise required by law or the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Certificate") and subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock (as defined in the Certificate) or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock (as defined in the Certificate) as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the Board, excluding any vacancies or unfilled newly-created directorships
Special Meetings.
 
2
(the "Existing Board"). Only such business as is specified in the notice of any special meeting of the stockholders shall come before such meeting.
          Section 4. Except as otherwise provided by law, notice of each meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Notice of any meeting of the stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy without protesting, prior to or at the commencement of the meeting, the lack of proper notice to such stockholder, or who shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article XI of these By-laws. Notice of adjournment of a meeting of the stockholders need not be given if the date, time and place to which it is adjourned are announced at such meeting, unless the adjournment is for more than 30 days or, after adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Notice of Meetings.
          Section 5. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares of stock which are entitled to vote on any particular matter, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the stockholders with respect to such matter; that in the case of any vote to be taken by classes or series, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of the particular class or series, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum of such class or series.
Quorum.
provided,
however,
          Section 6. The chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time whether or not a quorum is present. In the event that a quorum does not exist with respect to any vote to be taken by a particular class or series, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders of such class or series who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting with respect to the vote(s) to be taken by such class or series. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum may be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Adjournments.
          Section 7. At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, such person as shall be selected by the Board shall act as chairman of the meeting. The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and
Order of Business.
 
3
authority to prescribe such rules. regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
          At any annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the annual meeting (i) by or at the direction of the chairman of the meeting or (ii) by any stockholder who is a holder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 7, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 7.
          For business properly to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation (the "Secretary"). To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days earlier or more than 60 days later than such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; that for the purpose of calculating the timeliness of stockholder notices for the first annual meeting of stockholders after the Closing Date (as defined in the Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2005, between Adelphia Communications Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and Time Warner NY Cable LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a subsidiary of the Corporation (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Adelphia Agreement")), the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting shall be deemed to be May 15, 2006. No adjournment or postponement of any meeting shall be deemed to affect any of the time periods set forth in the previous sentence. To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth in writing as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business; (iii) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business; and (v) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal, a representation to that effect. The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by management of the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting;
provided,
however,
provided,
further,
 
4
that if such stockholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present such proposal at such annual meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. Notwithstanding anything in these By-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 7. The chairman of an annual meeting may refuse to permit any business to be brought before an annual meeting which fails to comply with the foregoing procedures or, in the case of a stockholder proposal, if the stockholder solicits proxies in support of such stockholder's proposal without having made the representation required by clause (v) of the third preceding sentence.
provided,
however,
          Section 8. It shall be the duty of the Secretary or other officer who has charge of the stock ledger to prepare and make, at least 10 days before each meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in such stockholder's name. Such list shall be produced and kept available at the times and places required by law.
List of Stockholders.
          Section 9. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate (including, without limitation, Article V of the Certificate), each stockholder of record of any series of Preferred Stock shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be fixed in the Certificate or in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board providing for the issuance of such stock, each stockholder of record of Class B Common Stock (as defined in the Certificate) shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to ten votes for each such share of such stock and each stockholder of record of Class A Common Stock (as defined in the Certificate) shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to one vote for each share of such stock, in each case, registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the Corporation:
Voting.
               (1) on the date fixed pursuant to Section 6 of Article VIII of these By-laws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting; or
               (2) if no such record date shall have been so fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
          Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders may authorize not in excess of three persons to act for such stockholder by proxy. Any such proxy shall be delivered to the secretary of such meeting at or prior to the time designated for holding such meeting, but in any event not later than the time designated in the order of business for so delivering such proxies. No such proxy shall
 
5
be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
          At each meeting of the stockholders, all corporate actions to be taken by vote of the stockholders (except as otherwise required by law and except as otherwise provided in the Certificate or these By-laws) shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon who are present in person or represented by proxy, and where a separate vote by class or series is required, a majority of the votes cast by the stockholders of such class or series who are present in person or represented by proxy shall be the act of such class or series.
          Unless required by law or determined by the chairman of the meeting to be advisable, the vote on any matter, including the election of directors, need not be by written ballot.
          Section 10. The chairman of the meeting shall appoint two or more inspectors to act at any meeting of the stockholders. Such inspectors shall perform such duties as shall be required by law or specified by the chairman of the meeting. Inspectors need not be stockholders. No director or nominee for the office of director shall be appointed such inspector.
Inspectors.
          Section 11. For the purpose of Section 7 of this Article II and Section 3 of Article III, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure (i) in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Reuters Information Service or any similar or successor news wire service or (ii) in a communication distributed generally to stockholders and in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any successor provisions thereto.
Public Announcements.
          Section 1. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate, the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board, which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers.
          Section 2. Subject to Article V of the Certificate and except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of the Certificate relating to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, the number of directors constituting the Authorized Board shall initially be 6, and shall thereafter be as determined from time to time by resolution of the Board. The term "Authorized Board"
Number, Qualification and Election.
 
6
shall mean the total number of authorized directors, whether or not there exist any vacancies or unfilled newly-created directorships.
          The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up pursuant to the terms of Article IV of the Certificate or any resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of such stock adopted by the Board, shall be elected in the manner provided in Article V of the Certificate.
          Each director shall be at least 21 years of age. Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation.
          In any election of directors, the persons receiving a plurality of the votes cast, up to the number of directors to be elected in such election, shall be deemed elected.
          Section 3. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board or by any stockholder who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of the notice of nomination provided for in this Section 3 and who is entitled to vote for the election of directors. Any stockholder of record entitled to vote for the election of directors at a meeting may nominate persons for election as directors only if timely written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of the stockholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting; that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days earlier or more than 60 days later than such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; that for the purpose of calculating the timeliness of stockholder notices for the first annual meeting of stockholders after the Closing Date, the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting shall be deemed to be May 15, 2006 and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors, not earlier than the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees to be elected at such meeting. No adjournment or postponement of any meeting shall be deemed to affect any of the time periods set forth in the previous sentence. Each such
Notification of Nominations.
provided,
however,
provided,
further,
 
7
notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and the name and address of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) the class or series and numbers of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (c) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (d) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (e) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board; (f) the executed written consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected; and (g) if the stockholder intends to solicit proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee(s), a representation to that effect. The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the stockholder solicits proxies in favor of such stockholder's nominee(s) without having made the representations required by the immediately preceding sentence. Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3 shall be eligible to serve as directors of the Corporation.
          Notwithstanding anything in the immediately preceding paragraph of this Section 3 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board at an annual meeting of the stockholders is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for directors or specifying the size of the increased Board made by the Corporation at least 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 3 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to or mailed to and received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
          Section 4. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate or these By-laws, a majority of the Existing Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, and the vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting to another time and place whether or not a quorum is present. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Quorum and Manner of Acting.
 
8
          Section 5. Subject to Sections 6 and 7 of this Article III, the Board may hold its meetings at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board may from time to time determine or as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
Place of Meeting.
          Section 6. No fewer than one regular meeting per year of the Board shall be held at such times as the Board shall from time to time by resolution determine. If any day fixed for a regular meeting shall be a legal holiday under the laws of the place where the meeting is to be held, the meeting which would otherwise be held on that day shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding business day.
Regular Meetings.
          Section 7. Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or by a majority of the Existing Board, and shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as he or they, as applicable, shall fix.
Special Meetings.
          Section 8. Notice of regular meetings of the Board or of any adjourned meeting thereof need not be given. Notice of each special meeting of the Board shall be given by overnight delivery service or by overnight mail to each director, in either case addressed to such director at such director's residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such director at such place by telecopy or by electronic transmission or shall be given personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the meeting is to be held, but notice need not be given to any director who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a waiver of such notice or who shall attend such meeting without protesting, prior to or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such director. Unless otherwise required by these By-laws, every such notice shall state the time and place but need not state the purpose of the meeting.
Notice of Meetings.
          Section 9. The Board shall adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these By-laws for the conduct of its meetings and management of the affairs of the Corporation as the Board may deem proper.
Rules and Regulations.
          Section 10. Any one or more members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in any meeting of the Board or of any such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other or as otherwise permitted by law, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meeting by Means of Communications Equipment.
          Section 11. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof may be
Action Without Meeting.
 
9
taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Board or of any such committee consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes or proceedings of the Board or of such committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
          Section 12. Any director of the Corporation may at any time resign by giving notice to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary in writing or by electronic transmission. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time be not specified therein, upon receipt thereof; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations.
          Section 13. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, any vacancies on the Board resulting from death, resignation, removal or other cause shall only be filled as contemplated by Article V of the Certificate.
Vacancies.
          Section 14. Each director, in consideration of such person serving as a director, shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount per annum and such fees (payable in cash or stock-based compensation) for attendance at meetings of the Board or of committees of the Board, or both, as the Board shall from time to time determine. In addition, each director shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by such person in connection with the performance of such person's duties as a director. Nothing contained in this Section 14 shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation.
          Section 1.
Establishment of Committees of the Board of Directors.
          (a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board may, by resolution passed by a majority of the Existing Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.
 
10
          (b) In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
          (c) Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board to the extent provided by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL") as it exists now or may hereafter be amended.
          (d) Each committee of the Board shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board when required.
          Section 2. Any committee of the Board may adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these By-laws for the conduct of its meetings as such committee of the Board may deem proper.
Procedure.
          Section 1. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board and may consist of: a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Chief Operating Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer, a Secretary and a Controller and one or more Vice Chairmen and Vice Presidents (including, without limitation, Assistant, Executive, Senior and Group Vice Presidents) and such other officers or agents with such titles and such duties as the Board may from time to time determine, each to have such authority, functions or duties as set forth in these By-laws or as determined by the Board or, to the extent consistent with these By-laws, as prescribed by an officer authorized by the Board to prescribe the duties of such officer (which duties shall be subject to review by the Board in its discretion). Each such officer shall hold office for such term as may be prescribed by the Board and until such person's successor shall have been chosen and shall qualify, or until such person's death or resignation, or until such person's removal in the manner hereinafter provided. One person may hold the offices and perform the duties of any two or more of said officers; that no officer shall execute, acknowledge or verify any instrument in more than one capacity if such instrument is required by law, the Certificate or these By-laws to be executed, acknowledged or verified by two or more officers. The Board may require any officer or agent to give security for the faithful performance of such person's duties.
Number; Term of Office.
provided,
however,
          Section 2. Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board at any meeting thereof called for such purpose.
Removal.
 
11
          Section 3. Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice to the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at any later date specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation.
          Section 4. The Chairman of the Board may but need not be an officer of the Corporation, shall be subject to the control of the Board, and shall report directly to the Board, and shall, if present, preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board.
Chairman of the Board.
          Section 5. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general supervision and direction of the business and affairs of the Corporation, shall be responsible for corporate policy and strategy, and shall report directly to the Board. Unless otherwise provided in these By-laws, all other officers of the Corporation shall report directly to the Chief Executive Officer or as otherwise determined by the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall, if present and in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board.
Chief Executive Officer.
          Section 6. . The President, if any, shall have such powers and duties as shall be prescribed by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board. The President shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
President
          Section 7. . The Chief Operating Officer, if any, shall exercise all the powers and perform the duties of the office of the chief operating officer and in general have overall supervision of the operations of the Corporation. The Chief Operating Officer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Chief Operating Officer
          Section 8. The Chief Financial Officer. if any. shall exercise all the powers and perform the duties of the office of the chief financial officer and in general have overall supervision of the financial operations of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Chief Financial Officer.
          Section 9. The Vice President, if any, shall have such powers and duties as shall be prescribed by his superior officer or the Chief Executive Officer. A Vice President shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as
Vice Presidents.
 
12
he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine. A Vice President need not be an officer of the Corporation and shall not be deemed an officer of the Corporation unless elected by the Board.
          Section 10. The Treasurer, if any, shall supervise and be responsible for all the funds and securities of the Corporation; the deposit of all moneys and other valuables to the credit of the Corporation in depositories of the Corporation; borrowings and compliance with the provisions of all indentures, agreements and instruments governing such borrowings to which the Corporation is a party; the disbursement of funds of the Corporation and the investment of its funds; and in general shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Treasurer.
          Section 11. The Controller, if any, shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation. The Controller shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Controller.
          Section 12. It shall be the duty of the Secretary, if any, to act as secretary at all meetings of the Board, of the committees of the Board and of the stockholders and to record the proceedings of such meetings in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall see that all notices required to be given by the Corporation are duly given and served; the Secretary shall be custodian of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the seal or cause it to be affixed to all certificates of stock of the Corporation (unless the seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and to all documents, the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws; the Secretary shall have charge of the books, records and papers of the Corporation and shall see that the reports, statements and other documents required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of Secretary. The Secretary shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as he may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board may from time to time determine.
Secretary.
          Section 13. Any Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and Assistant Secretaries shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Board or by the Treasurer, Controller or Secretary, respectively, or by the Chief Executive Officer. An Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Controller or Assistant Secretary
Assistant Treasurers, Assistant Controllers and Assistant
Secretaries.
 
13
need not be an officer of the Corporation and shall not be deemed an officer of the Corporation unless elected by the Board.
          Section 14. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation shall have the authority to designate employees of the corporation to have the title of Vice President, Assistant Vice President, Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Controller or Assistant Secretary. Any employee so designated shall have the powers and duties determined by the officer making such designation. The persons upon whom such titles are conferred shall not be deemed officers of the Corporation unless elected by the Board.
Additional Matters.
          Section 1. For purposes of this Article VI:
Defined Terms.
           shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 2 of Article IV of the Certificate.
"Affiliate"
           shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 1 of Article V of the Certificate.
"Independent Director"
           shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 2 of Article IV of the Certificate.
"Person"
           shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 2 of Article IV of the Certificate.
"Subsidiary"
           shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 2 of Article IV of the Certificate.
"TWX"
          Section 2.
Certain Transactions.
          (a) Neither the Corporation nor any of its Subsidiaries shall enter into, extend or renew any transaction, agreement or arrangement or series of transactions, agreements or arrangements or amend in any material respect any previously existing transaction, agreement or arrangement with TWX (each, an "Affiliate Transaction"), unless:
               (i) such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that, when taken as a whole, are substantially as favorable to the Corporation or such Subsidiary as the Corporation or such Subsidiary would be able to obtain at the time of entering into the Affiliate Transaction in a comparable arm's-length transaction, agreement or arrangement with a third party other than TWX; and
 
14
               (ii) in the case of an Affiliate Transaction involving reasonably anticipated payments or other consideration to be made or provided by the Corporation over the term of such Affiliate Transaction of $50 million or greater, a majority of the Independent Directors then in office approve such Affiliate Transaction; that nothing contained in this Article VI shall be deemed to prohibit, restrict or invalidate any Affiliate Transaction entered into on or prior to the Closing Date or any Affiliate Transaction expressly contemplated by the Adelphia Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (as defined therein).
provided,
however,
          (b) The Corporation shall not enter into any transaction (other than pursuant to any Contract (as defined in the Adelphia Agreement) in effect as of the Closing Date) having the intended effect of benefiting any Affiliate of the Corporation (other than any Subsidiary of the Corporation) at the expense of the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation in a manner that would deprive the Corporation or any such Subsidiary of the benefit they would otherwise have obtained if the transaction were to have been effected on terms that were on an arm's length basis.
          (c) For the avoidance of doubt, dividends otherwise permitted under the Certificate are not intended to be restricted hereunder.
          (d) This Article VI shall terminate on the first date upon which the Corporation is no longer an Affiliate of TWX.
Section 1. The Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted or required by the DGCL or other applicable law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, shall indemnify and hold harmless any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceedings by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) (a "Covered Entity") against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding; that the foregoing shall not apply to a director or officer of the Corporation with respect to a Proceeding that was commenced by such director or officer unless the proceeding was commenced either with the approval of the Board or after a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined in Section 5(d) of this Article VII). Any director or
Right to Indemnification.
provided,
however,
 
15
officer of the Corporation eligible for indemnification as provided in this Section 1 is hereinafter called an "Indemnitee." Any right of an Indemnitee to indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive, prior to the conclusion of any Proceeding, payment of any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law as then in effect and the other provisions of this Article VII.
          Section 2. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of any Covered Entity against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement as specified in Section 1 of this Article VII or incurred by any such director, officer, employee or agent in connection with any Proceeding referred to in Section 1 of this Article VII, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the DGCL. The Corporation may enter into contracts with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of any Covered Entity in furtherance of the provisions of this Article VII and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided or authorized in this Article VII.
Insurance, Contracts and Funding.
          Section 3. All reasonable expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding shall be advanced to the Indemnitee by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding. Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee and shall include or be accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced if ultimately it should be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such expenses pursuant to this Article VII.
Advancement of Expenses.
          Section 4. The rights of indemnification and advancement of expenses provided in this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which an Indemnitee may otherwise be entitled, and the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any Indemnitee under this Article VII and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article VII, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
Not Exclusive Rights.
          Section 5. In furtherance, but not in limitation of the foregoing provisions, the following procedures, presumptions and remedies shall apply with respect to the right to indemnification under this Article VII:
Procedures; Presumptions and Effect of Certain
Proceedings; Remedies.
 
16
     (a)
Procedure for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification.
     (i) To obtain indemnification under this Article VII, an Indemnitee shall submit to the Secretary a written request, including such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification (the "Supporting Documentation"). The determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be made not later than 60 days after receipt by the Corporation of the written request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation. The Secretary shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing that the Indemnitee has requested indemnification.
     (ii) The Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Article VII shall be determined in any of the following ways: (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined in Section 5(d) of this Article VII), whether or not they constitute a quorum of the Board, or by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors; (B) by a written opinion of Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined in Section 5(d) of this Article VII) if (x) a Change in Control shall have occurred and the Indemnitee so requests or (y) there are no Disinterested Directors or a majority of such Disinterested Directors so directs; (C) by the stockholders of the Corporation; or (D) as provided in Section 5(b) of this Article VII.
     (iii) In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 5(a)(ii) of this Article VII, such Independent Counsel shall be selected by:
               (x) a majority of the Board, if such selection is made prior to the Initial Offering Date (as defined in Section 2 of Article IV of the Certificate); or
               (y) a majority of the audit committee of the Board, if such selection is made following the Initial Offering Date, but only, in each case, an Independent Counsel to which the Indemnitee does not reasonably object; that if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Indemnitee shall select such Independent Counsel, but only an Independent Counsel to which a majority of the Disinterested Directors or, if there are no such Disinterested Directors, a majority of the audit committee of the Board, do not reasonably object.
provided,
however,
 
17
          (b) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article VII, if a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Article VII (with respect to actions or omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control) upon submission of a request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation in accordance with Section 5(a)(i) of this Article VII, and thereafter the Corporation shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in reaching a contrary determination. In any event, if the person or persons empowered under Section 5(a) of this Article VII to determine entitlement to indemnification shall not have been appointed or shall not have made a determination within 60 days after receipt by the Corporation of the request therefor, together with the Supporting Documentation, the Indemnitee shall be deemed to be, and shall be, entitled to indemnification unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. The termination of any Proceeding described in Section 1 of this Article VII, or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, adversely affect the right of the Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which the Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation or, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that such conduct was unlawful.
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings.
          (c) (i) In the event that a determination is made pursuant to Section 5(a) of this Article VII that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article VII, (A) the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek an adjudication of entitlement to such indemnification either, at the Indemnitee's sole option, in (x) an appropriate court of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction or (y) an arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association; (B) any such judicial proceeding or arbitration shall be de novo and the Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of such adverse determination; and (C) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration, the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article VII (with respect to actions or omissions occurring prior to such Change in Control).
Remedies of Indemnitee.
               (ii) If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made, pursuant to Section 5(a) or (b) of this Article VII, that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be obligated to pay the amounts constituting such indemnification within five days after such determination has been made or deemed to have been made and shall be conclusively bound by such determination unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. In the event that (X) advancement of
 
18
expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 3 of this Article VII or (Y) payment of indemnification is not made within five days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section 5(a) or (b) of this Article VII, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek judicial enforcement of the Corporation's obligation to pay to the Indemnitee such advancement of expenses or indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may bring an action, in an appropriate court in the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction, contesting the right of the Indemnitee to receive indemnification hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in sub-clause (A) or (B) of this clause (ii) (a "Disqualifying Event"); that in any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of such Disqualifying Event.
provided,
however,
               (iii) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 5(c) that the procedures and presumptions of this Article VII are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Article VII.
               (iv) In the event that the Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section 5(c), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Article VII, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Corporation, and shall be indemnified by the Corporation against, any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee if the Indemnitee prevails in such judicial adjudication or arbitration. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that the Indemnitee is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be prorated accordingly.
          (d) For purposes of this Article VII:
Definitions.
           means any one of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President or the Secretary of the Corporation.
"Authorized Officer"
           means the occurrence of any of the following: (w) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which the holders of the Common Stock immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger, (x) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, the assets of the Corporation, or the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or (y) individuals who would constitute a majority of the members of the Board elected at any meeting of stockholders or by written consent (excluding any Preferred Stock Directors, as defined
"Change in Control"
 
19
in the Certificate) shall be elected to the Board and the election or the nomination for election by the stockholders of such directors was not approved by a vote of at least two thirds of the directors in office immediately prior to such election.
           means a director of the Corporation who is not or was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Indemnitee.
"Disinterested Director"
           means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither currently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (x) the Corporation or the Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (y) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification under this Article VII. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the Indemnitee in an action to determine the Indemnitee's rights under this Article VII.
"Independent Counsel"
"Independent Counsel"
          Section 6. If any provision or provisions of this Article VII shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VII (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article VII containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VII (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article VII containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or enforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability.
          Section 7. The Corporation, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the indemnification of directors and officers of the Corporation, shall indemnify any person who is or was an employee of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involed in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reason of the fact that such employee is or was serving (a) as a director of a corporation in which the Corporation had at the time of such service, directly or indirectly, a 50% or greater equity interest (a "Subsidiary Director") or (b) at the written request of an Authorized Officer, as a director of another corporation in which the Corporation had at the time of such service, directly or indirectly, a less than 50% equity interest (or no equity interest at all) or in a capacity equivalent to that of a director for any partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) in which the Corporation has an interest (a "Requested Employee"), against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such Subsidiary Director or Requested Employee in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation shall also advance expenses incurred by any such
Indemnification of Employees Serving as Directors.
v
 
20
Subsidiary Director or Requested Employee in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
          Section 8. Notwithstanding any other provision or provisions of this Article VII, the Corporation, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the indemnification of directors and officers of the Corporation, may indemnify any person other than a director or officer of the Corporation, a Subsidiary Director or a Requested Employee, who is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation and who is or was involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or of a Covered Entity against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding. The Corporation may also advance expenses incurred by such employee or agent in connection with any such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents.
          Section 1. The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, or shall be uncertificated shares that may be evidenced by a book-entry system maintained by the registrar of such stock, or a combination of both. To the extent that shares are represented by certificates, such certificates shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board. The certificates representing shares of stock of each class shall be signed by, or in the name of, the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Executive Officer or by any Vice President, and by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, and sealed with the seal of the Corporation, which may be a facsimile thereof. Any or all such signatures may be facsimiles. Although any officer, transfer agent or registrar whose manual or facsimile signature is affixed to such a certificate ceases to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate has been issued, it may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such officer, transfer agent or registrar were still such at the date of its issue.
Certificates for Shares.
          The stock ledger and blank share certificates shall be kept by the Secretary or by a transfer agent or by a registrar or by any other officer or agent designated by the Board.
          Section 2. Transfers of shares of stock of each class of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation upon
Transfer of Shares.
 
21
authorization by the registered holder thereof, or by such holder's attorney thereunto authorized by a power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or a transfer agent for such stock, if any, and if such shares are represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power (or by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer) and the payment of any taxes thereon; that the Corporation shall be entitled to recognize and enforce any lawful restriction on transfer. The person in whose name shares are registered on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation; that whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely, and written notice thereof shall be given to the Secretary or to such transfer agent, such fact shall be stated in the entry of the transfer. No transfer of shares shall be valid as against the Corporation, its stockholders and creditors for any purpose, except to render the transferee liable for the debts of the Corporation to the extent provided by law, until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
provided,
however,
provided,
however,
          Section 3. The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, shall be entitled to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares of stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
Registered Stockholders and Addresses of Stockholders.
          Each stockholder shall designate to the Secretary or transfer agent of the Corporation an address at which notices of meetings and all other corporate notices may be given to such person, and, if any stockholder shall fail to designate such address, corporate notices may be given to such person by mail directed to such person at such person's post office address, if any, as the same appears on the stock record books of the Corporation or at such person's last known post office address.
          Section 4. The holder of any certificate representing any shares of stock of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of such certificate; the Corporation may issue to such holder a new certificate or certificates for shares, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate or, in the case of loss, theft or destruction of the certificate, upon satisfactory proof of such loss, theft or destruction; the Board, or a committee designated thereby, or the transfer agents and registrars for the stock, may, in their discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such person's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as they may direct to indemnify the Corporation and said transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be made on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Lost, Destroyed and Mutilated Certificates.
 
22
          Section 5. The Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of each class and series of the Corporation and may make such rules and take such action as it may deem expedient concerning the issue of certificates in lieu of certificates claimed to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated.
Regulations.
          Section 6. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of the stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which shall not be more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting or, in the case of any action other than a meeting, which shall not be more than 60 days prior to such action. A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
provided,
however,
          Section 7. The Board may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars.
Transfer Agents and Registrars.
          The Board shall approve a suitable corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the full name of the Corporation and shall be in the charge of the Secretary. The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
          The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the 31st day of December in each year.
 
23
          Whenever any notice whatsoever is required to be given by these By-laws, by the Certificate or by law, the person entitled thereto may, either before or after the meeting or other matter in respect of which such notice is to be given, waive such notice in writing or as otherwise permitted by law, which shall be filed with or entered upon the records of the meeting or the records kept with respect to such other matter, as the case may be, and in such event such notice need not be given to such person and such waiver shall be deemed equivalent to such notice.
          These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new By-laws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board at any meeting thereof in accordance with the terms of Article VI of the Certificate; that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new By-laws is contained in the notice of such meeting of the stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than twenty-four hours prior to the meeting.
provided,
however,
          Section 1. The Board or any committee thereof shall designate the officers, employees and agents of the Corporation who shall have power to execute and deliver deeds, contracts, mortgages, bonds, debentures, notes, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money and other documents for and in the name of the Corporation and may authorize (including authority to redelegate) by written instrument to other officers, employees or agents of the Corporation. Such delegation may be by resolution or otherwise and the authority granted shall be general or confined to specific matters, all as the Board or any such committee may determine. In the absence of such designation referred to in the first sentence of this Section, the officers of the Corporation shall have such power so referred to, to the extent incident to the normal performance of their duties.
Execution of Documents.
          Section 2. All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation or otherwise as the Board or any committee thereof or any officer of the Corporation to whom power in respect of financial operations shall have been delegated by the Board or any such committee or in these By-laws shall select.
Deposits.
 
24
          Section 3. All checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation, and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board or of any committee thereof or by any officer of the Corporation to whom power in respect of financial operations shall have been delegated by the Board or any such committee thereof or as set forth in these By-laws.
Checks.
          Section 4. The Board or any committee thereof shall designate the officers of the Corporation who shall have authority from time to time to appoint an agent or agents of the Corporation to exercise in the name and on behalf of the Corporation the powers and rights which the Corporation may have as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or other entity, and to vote or consent in respect of such stock or securities; such designated officers may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of exercising such powers and rights; and such designated officers may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal, or otherwise, such written proxies, powers of attorney or other instruments as they may deem necessary or proper in order that the Corporation may exercise its said powers and rights.
Proxies in Respect of Stock or Other Securities of Other Corporations.
          Section 5. All powers, duties and responsibilities provided for in these By-laws, whether or not explicitly so qualified, are qualified by the provisions of the Certificate and applicable laws.
Subject to Law and Certificate of Incorporation.
 

 
     
Exhibit 4.1
 

 
Exhibit 4.14
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
     THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT (this "") of TIME WARNER NY CABLE LLC (the ""), dated as of July 28, 2006, is adopted and entered into by and among TW NY Cable Holding Inc. (the "") and the persons listed on the signature pages hereto as Series A Members (the "" and, together with the Common Equity Member, the "") pursuant to and in accordance with the Limited Liability Company Act of the State of Delaware (6  18-101 .), as amended from time to time (the "").
Agreement
Company
Common Equity Member
Series A Members
Members
Del. C.
et
seq
Act
     WHEREAS, the Company was converted into a limited liability company on November 3, 2004 in accordance with the Act, with Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware Corporation (""), as the original sole member, and governed by a Limited Liability Company Agreement for the Company dated November 3, 2004 (the "");
TWC
Original Agreement
     WHEREAS, TWC transferred its common equity interest in the Company to TWE Holding I LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), and TWE Holding transferred its common equity interest in the Company to TW NY Cable Holding Inc., whereupon the latter became the Common Equity Member; and
TWE Holding
     WHEREAS, the Common Equity Member wishes to admit the Series A Members as members of the Company and to amend and restate the Original Agreement so that the membership in and management of the Company shall be governed by the terms hereinafter set forth.
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby amend and restate the Original Agreement in its entirety to read as follows:
     1.1 . For the purpose of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Act
     "" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such Person. For the purposes of this definition, no Series A Member shall be deemed to be an "Affiliate" of the Company.
Affiliate
 
2
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Agreement
     "" shall mean any officer of the Company as may from time to time be assigned, by resolution of the Board of Directors, to appoint officers of the Company.
Appointing Officer
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 (Management of the Company).
Board of Directors
     "" shall mean, with respect to each Member, the amount, if required, contributed by such Member to the capital of the Company pursuant to Section 4.1 (Capital Contributions).
Capital Contribution
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Common Equity Member
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Company
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.6(a) (Indemnification).
Covered Person
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 of to this Agreement.
Dividend Payment Date
Annex I
     "" shall mean the failure of the Company to pay accrued dividends to the Series A Members as described in Section 2 of to this Agreement in full for any period of 18 consecutive months.
Dividend Payment Trigger
Annex I
     "" shall mean Fitch, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Fitch
     "" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
GAAP
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.16 (Confidentiality).
Information
     "" shall mean the voluntary or involuntary liquidation of the Company under applicable bankruptcy or reorganization laws, or the dissolution or winding up of the Company.
Liquidation
     "" shall mean $25 million with respect to each Series A Preferred Equity Membership Unit less any amounts paid under Section 4(c) of to this Agreement.
Liquidation Value
Annex I
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) of to this Agreement.
Mandatory Redemption Date
Annex I
 
3
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Members
     "" shall mean Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Original Agreement
     "" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership (general or limited), voluntary association, joint venture, limited liability company, trust, estate, unincorporated organization, governmental authority or other entity.
Person
     "" shall mean Standard & Poor's Ratings Service and any successor thereto.
S&P
     "" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission and any successor thereto.
SEC
     "" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
     "" shall mean the Director elected by the Series A Members to the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 5(b) of Annex I to this Agreement.
Series A Director
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Series A Members
     "" shall mean the Subscription Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Company and the purchasers named therein.
Subscription Agreement
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(a) (Restrictions on Transfers).
Transfer
     "" shall mean any period during which (i) a Dividend Payment Trigger occurs and is continuing or (ii) the Company has failed to redeem all of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units in accordance with Section 4(a) or Section 4(c), as the case may be, of to this Agreement.
Trigger Period
Annex I
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
TWC
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
TWE Holding
     "" shall mean, with respect to each Series A Preferred Equity Membership Unit, in any quarterly period, any accrued and unpaid quarterly dividends in respect of any previous quarterly period that were not paid on the related prior Dividend Payment Date.
Unpaid Dividends
 
4
     1.2 . The Company was converted into and formed as a limited liability company upon the execution of the Certificate of Conversion and the Certificate of Formation of the Company by David E. O'Hayre and the filing of such Certificates on November 3, 2004 with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, David E. O'Hayre being authorized to take such actions. Prior to such conversion, the predecessor of the Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware on March 26, 2003.
Formation
     1.3 . The name of the Company shall be "Time Warner NY Cable LLC."
Name
     1.4 . The address of the registered office of the Company in the State of Delaware is c/o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801.
Registered Office
     1.5 . The address of the registered agent of the Company for service of process on the Company in the State of Delaware is The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801.
Registered Agent
     1.6 . The term of the Company shall continue until its dissolution in accordance with the Act and this Agreement.
Term
     1.7 . The Company is formed for the object and purpose of, and the nature of the business to be conducted and promoted by the Company is, engaging in any lawful act or activity for which limited liability companies may be formed under the Act (including, without limitation, acquiring, managing and disposing of real and personal property), and engaging in any and all activities necessary or incidental to the foregoing.
Purpose
     1.8 . Upon its execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Common Equity Member shall continue to be a member of the Company. Upon their execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Subscription Agreement, each Series A Member is hereby admitted to the Company as a member of the Company.
Admission
     2.1 . The Company's equity interests shall consist of two classes, designated respectively as "Common Equity Interests" and "Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units" and shall be uncertificated.
Classes of Equity Interests
     2.2 . Holders of Common Equity Interests shall be entitled to the rights and subject to the obligations described elsewhere in this Agreement. The Common Equity Interests are held by the Common Equity Member.
Common Equity Interests
 
5
     2.3 . Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units shall consist of twelve (12) equal units and are held by the Series A Members. Holders of Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units shall be entitled to the rights and subject to the obligations described elsewhere in this Agreement, including to this Agreement, which is incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement.
Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units
Annex I
     3.1 . The business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by and under the direction of a board established by the Common Equity Member pursuant to and with the powers and authority set forth in this Article 3 (the ""). The Board of Directors shall have complete and exclusive discretion in the management and control of the affairs and business of the Company except as expressly provided in this Agreement or the Act, and shall possess all powers necessary, convenient or appropriate to carrying out the purposes and business of the Company, and to perform all acts and enter into and perform all contracts and other undertakings that the Board of Directors may deem necessary or advisable or incidental thereto, including doing all things and taking all actions necessary to carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement (and is hereby authorized and directed, on behalf of the Company, to do all such things and to take all such actions without any further act, vote, consent or approval of any Member). The Board of Directors may delegate such general or specific authority to officers, employees, agents or other representatives of the Company as the Board of Directors considers desirable from time to time, and such officers, employees, agents or other representatives of the Company may, subject to any restraints or limitations imposed by the Board of Directors, exercise the authority granted to them. The Board of Directors shall not take any action that would be inconsistent with this Agreement or applicable law. Each member of the Board of Directors shall constitute a "manager" of the Company, as such term is defined in Section 18-101 of the Act.
Management of the Company
Board of Directors
     3.2 .
Board of Directors
          (a) . The Board of Directors shall consist of one or more Directors, the precise number to be fixed by the Common Equity Member. Each Director shall hold office until a successor is elected and qualified. The Common Equity Member may appoint one Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board, if one shall have been appointed, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall exercise such powers and perform such other duties as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Until determined otherwise by the Common Equity Member, the number of Directors shall be three (3), and the initial Directors shall be Landel C. Hobbs, Robert D. Marcus and John K. Martin. Landel C. Hobbs shall serve as initial Chairman of the Board.
General
 
6
          (b) . The Directors shall initially be as set forth in Section 3.2(a) and thereafter shall be appointed by the Common Equity Member, subject to the right of the Series A Members to elect the Series A Director as described below. Any vacancy occurring on the Board of Directors for any reason, including, without limitation, vacancies occurring as a result of the removal of Directors without cause or as a result of the creation of new Director positions that increase the number of Directors, may be filled only by the Common Equity Member, subject to the right of the Series A Members to elect the Series A Director as described below.
Appointment
          During any Trigger Period, (i) the total authorized number of Directors of the Company shall automatically be increased by one (1) and the Series A Members shall be entitled to elect the Series A Director, and (ii) the Series A Director shall serve from the date the Company is notified in writing of his or her election and identity by the Series A Members until such Director's successor shall have been duly elected by the Series A Members and qualified or until the termination of such Trigger Period, whichever occurs earlier, subject to his or her earlier death, disqualification, resignation or removal. In the event of the death, disqualification, resignation or removal of the Series A Director prior to the end of a Trigger Period, the Series A Members shall be entitled to appoint a replacement Series A Director pursuant to the procedures of this paragraph and to this Agreement, who will serve on the same terms and for such terms as otherwise specified herein. Upon the termination of any Trigger Period, the Series A Director shall cease to be a Director and the total number of Directors of the Company shall automatically be reduced by one (1).
Annex I
          (c) . Any or all of the Directors may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the Common Equity Member; , , that the Series A Director, if any, may only be removed by the Series A Members holding a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units.
Removal
provided
however
          (d) . Any Director may resign at any time by giving written notice of his resignation to the Board of Directors. A resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time when the resignation shall become effective shall not be specified therein, immediately upon its delivery, and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
          (e) .
Meetings
               (i) . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such times and at such places within or without the State of Delaware as may be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors; , that during a Trigger Period, at least five (5) business days notice by one of the means specified in Section 3.2(e)(v) (Notice Procedure) hereof shall be given to the Series A Director.
Regular Meetings
provided
               (ii) . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such times and at such places within or without the State of
Special Meetings
 
7
Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board (if any), the President or the Secretary or by any two or more Directors then serving on at least 24 hours' notice to each Director given by one of the means specified in Section 3.2(e)(v) (Notice Procedure) hereof other than by mail, or on at least three days' notice if given by mail. Special meetings shall be called by the Chairman of the Board (if any), President or Secretary in like manner and on like notice on the written request of any two or more of the Directors then serving.
               (iii) . Directors or members of any committee designated by the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or of such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 3.2(e)(iii) shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Telephone Meetings
               (iv) . A majority of the Directors present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, including an adjourned meeting, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn such meeting to another time and place. At least 24 hours' notice of any adjourned meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given to each Director whether or not present at the time of the adjournment, if such notice shall be given by one of the means specified in Section 3.2(e)(v) (Notice Procedure) hereof other than by mail, or at least three days' notice if by mail. Any business may be transacted at an adjourned meeting that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Adjourned Meetings
               (v) . Subject to Sections 3.2(e)(i) (Regular Meetings), 3.2(e)(ii) (Special Meetings) and 3.2(e)(iv) (Adjourned Meetings) hereof, whenever, under this Agreement, notice is required to be given to any Director, such notice shall be deemed given effectively if given in person or by telephone, by electronic mail, by mail addressed to such Director at such Director's address as it appears on the records of the Company, with postage thereon prepaid, or by telegram, telecopy or, if consented to by the Director to whom notice is given, by other means of electronic transmission.
Notice Procedure
               (vi) . Whenever the giving of any notice to Directors is required by this Agreement, a waiver thereof, given by the Director entitled to said notice, whether before or after the event as to which such notice is required, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance by a Director at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting except when the Director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting has not been lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors need be specified in any waiver of notice unless so required by this Agreement.
Waiver of Notice
               (vii) . At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the
Organization
 
8
President, or in the absence of the President, a chairman chosen by a majority of the Directors present, shall preside. The Secretary shall act as secretary at each meeting of the Board of Directors. In case the Secretary shall be absent from any meeting of the Board of Directors, an Assistant Secretary shall perform the duties of secretary at such meeting; and in the absence from any such meeting of the Secretary and all Assistant Secretaries, the person presiding at the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
               (viii) . The presence in person of a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
Quorum of Directors
               (ix) . Except as otherwise expressly required by this Agreement, the vote of a majority of the Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Action by Majority Vote
               (x) . Unless otherwise restricted by this Agreement, any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote if a majority (including in any event the Series A Director, if any) of the Directors or members of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Action Without Meeting
               (xi) . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Board of Directors may delegate any or all of its powers to committees of the Board of Directors, each committee to consist of two or more Directors. During any Trigger Period, the Series A Director (if any) shall serve as a member of all such committees of the Board of Directors, if any. Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board of Directors may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of such rules each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to this Section 3.2.
Committees of the Board of Directors
     3.3 .
Designation of Officers
          (a) . The officers of the Company shall be a President, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers as the Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer may appoint, including one or more Vice Presidents and one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are set forth in this Agreement or as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer may appoint one or more Vice Presidents as Executive Vice Presidents and may use descriptive words or phrases to designate the standing, seniority or areas of special competence of the Vice Presidents appointed by it. Any number of
Positions
 
9
offices may be held by the same person unless the Certificate of Formation or this Agreement otherwise provides.
          (b) The officers of the Company shall be appointed by the Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer at such time or times as the Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer, respectively, shall determine.
Appointment.
          (c) Until determined otherwise by the Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer, the persons set forth in to this Agreement are hereby appointed as officers of the Company as set forth therein.
Initial Appointment.
Annex II
          (d) Each officer of the Company shall hold office for the term for which he or she is appointed and until such officer's successor is appointed and qualifies or until such officer's earlier death, resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Company. Such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at such later time as is therein specified, and, unless otherwise specified, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. The resignation of an officer shall be without prejudice to the contract rights of the Company, if any. Any officer may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Company may be filled by the Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer. The removal of an officer with or without cause shall be without prejudice to the officer's contract rights, if any. The appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contract rights.
Term of Office.
          (e) . The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall have general supervision over the business of the Company, subject, however, to the control of the Board of Directors and of any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors at which the Chairman of the Board (if there be one) is not present. The President may sign and execute in the name of the Company deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts and other instruments, except in cases in which the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by resolution of the Board of Directors or by this Agreement to some other officer or agent of the Company, or shall be required by applicable law otherwise to be signed or executed and, in general, the President shall perform all duties incident to the office of President and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to the President by resolution of the Board of Directors.
President
          (f) . At the request of the President, or, in the President's absence, at the request of the Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer, the Vice Presidents shall (in such order as may be designated by the Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer, or, in the absence of any such designation, in order of seniority based on age) perform all of the duties of the President and, in so performing, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all restrictions upon, the President. Any Vice President may sign and execute in the name of the Company deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments, except in cases in which the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by resolution of the Board of Directors, by the Appointing
Vice Presidents
 
10
Officer or by this Agreement to some other officer or agent of the Company, or shall be required by applicable law otherwise to be signed or executed, and each Vice President shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to such Vice President by resolution of the Board of Directors, by the Appointing Officer or by the President.
          (g) . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of the Board of Directors in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform like duties for committees of the Board of Directors, when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all special meetings of the Board of Directors and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by the President, under whose supervision the Secretary shall be. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Company (if any), and the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, shall have authority to affix the same on any instrument requiring it, and when so affixed, the seal may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors or the Appointing Officer may, by resolution, give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Company (if any) and to attest the same by such officer's signature. The Secretary or an Assistant Secretary may also attest all instruments signed by the President or any Vice President. The Secretary shall have charge of all the books, records and papers of the Company relating to its organization and management, shall see that the reports, statements and other documents required by applicable law are properly kept and filed and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of secretary and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to the Secretary by resolution of the Board of Directors, by the Appointing Officer or by the President.
Secretary
          (h) . The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of, and be responsible for, all funds, securities and notes of the Company; receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the Company from any sources whatsoever; deposit all such moneys and valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Company in such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors; against proper vouchers, cause such funds to be disbursed by checks or drafts on the authorized depositaries of the Company signed in such manner as shall be determined by the Board of Directors and be responsible for the accuracy of the amounts of all moneys so disbursed; regularly enter or cause to be entered in books or other records maintained for the purpose full and adequate account of all moneys received or paid for the account of the Company; have the right to require from time to time reports or statements giving such information as the Treasurer may desire with respect to any and all financial transactions of the Company from the officers or agents transacting the same; render to the President or the Board of Directors, whenever the President or the Board of Directors shall require the Treasurer so to do, an account of the financial condition of the Company and of all financial transactions of the Company; disburse the funds of the Company as ordered by the Board of Directors; and, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to the Treasurer by resolution of the Board of Directors, by the Appointing Officer or by the President.
Treasurer
 
11
          (i) . Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them by the Secretary or by the Treasurer, respectively, or by resolution of the Board of Directors, by the Appointing Officer or by the President.
Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers
     3.4 .
Powers and Rights of Series A Members
          (a) The Series A Members shall not participate in the management or control of the business of the Company, or have any rights or powers with respect thereto, except those rights or powers expressly granted to them by the terms of this Agreement or those conferred on them by law, including their right to elect the Series A Director during any Trigger Period. The Series A Members shall not have the authority to bind the Company.
          (b) To the extent that the Act, relevant case law or other applicable interpretations of law would confer rights and privileges on the Series A Members, including under the terms of this Agreement or the Subscription Agreement, that would be greater than the rights and privileges (including rights and privileges with respect to dividends, redemption or otherwise) that are accorded to holders of preferred stock of a Delaware corporation under applicable law that otherwise has terms identical to the terms of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units under this Agreement and the Subscription Agreement, then the rights and privileges of the Series A Members shall be limited as if the Series A Members were holders of such preferred stock.
     3.5 . The Members shall not have any liability for the obligations or liabilities of the Company except to the extent provided in the Act.
Liability of Members
     3.6 .
Indemnification
          (a) .
Exculpation
               (i) For purposes of this Agreement, the term "" means the Common Equity Member, any officer, director, shareholder, employee or expressly authorized agent of the Common Equity Member, any Affiliate of the Common Equity Member and any officer, director, manager, partner, employee or expressly authorized agent of the Company and its Affiliates. It is understood that (A) the Series A Members are not Covered Persons for purposes of this Agreement and (B) the Series A Director, if any, shall be a Covered Person for purposes of this Agreement.
Covered Persons
               (ii) No Covered Person shall be liable to the Company, any other Covered Person or any Member for any loss, damage or claim incurred by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted by such Covered Person in good faith on behalf of the Company and in a manner reasonably believed to be within the scope of authority conferred on such Covered Person by this Agreement, except that a Covered Person shall be liable for any such loss, damage or claim incurred by reason of such Covered Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
 
12
               (iii) A Covered Person shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Company and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Company by any Person as to matters the Covered Person reasonably believes are within the professional or expert competence of such Person and who or which has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Company, including information, opinions, reports or statements as to the value and amount of the assets, liabilities, profits, losses or any other facts pertinent to the existence and amount of assets from which distributions to the Members may properly be paid.
          (b) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a Covered Person shall be entitled to indemnification from the Company for any loss, damage or claim incurred by such Covered Person by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted by such Covered Person in good faith on behalf of the Company and in a manner reasonably believed to be within the scope of authority conferred on such Covered Person by this Agreement, except that no Covered Person shall be entitled to be indemnified in respect of any loss, damage or claim incurred by such Covered Person by reason of gross negligence or willful misconduct with respect to such acts or omissions; , , that any indemnity under this Section 3.6 shall be provided out of and to the extent of Company assets only, and no Covered Person shall have any personal liability on account thereof.
Indemnification
provided
however
          (c) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, expenses (including legal fees) incurred by a Covered Person in defending any claim, demand, action, suit or proceeding shall, from time to time, be advanced by the Company prior to the disposition of such claim, demand, action, suit or proceeding upon receipt by the Company of an undertaking by or on behalf of such Covered Person to repay such amount if it shall be determined that such Covered Person is not entitled to be indemnified as authorized in this Section 3.6.
Expenses
     4.1 .
Capital Contributions
          (a) The Common Equity Member is not required to make any Capital Contribution to the Company. Except for the purchase of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, the Series A Members shall have no obligation to make any Capital Contribution to the Company.
Obligations to Make Capital Contributions.
          (b) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, no Member shall have the right to withdraw capital from the Company, to receive interest on such Member's Capital Contributions or to receive any distribution or return of such Member's Capital Contributions.
No Withdrawal.
     4.2 . Except as otherwise provided by law or by this Agreement and subject to the rights of the Series A Members, the Common Equity
Dividends
 
13
Member shall be entitled to receive such dividends or other distributions as from time to time may be declared by the Board of Directors; , , no dividends or other distributions shall be declared or paid in respect of any equity interests of the Company that are on parity with or junior to the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units with respect to dividends or with respect to distributions of assets or rights upon a Liquidation, and none of such equity interests may be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, during any period in which (a) the Company has for any reason not paid in full any quarterly dividends accrued and payable at such time to the Series A Members as provided in Section 2 of to this Agreement or (b) the Company has failed to redeem all of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units in accordance with Section 4(a) or Section 4(c), as the case may be, of to this Agreement. The Company shall not make a distribution to any Member if such distribution would violate the Act.
provided
however
Annex I
Annex I
     In the event of a Liquidation, subject to the requirements of the Act and the rights of creditors of the Company and of the Series A Members with respect to the distribution of assets of the Company upon such Liquidation, the Common Equity Member shall be entitled to receive the assets of the Company remaining for such distribution to the Members in accordance with the Act.
     6.1 . Each Series A Member agrees that it shall not directly or indirectly sell, exchange, assign, pledge or otherwise transfer (collectively, a "") all or any fraction of Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units held by such Series A Member unless: (i) such Transfer is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder and complies with any applicable state securities laws, and the transferor and the transferee shall provide documents (including a legal opinion) reasonably satisfactory to the Common Equity Member to that effect; (ii) the transferee shall have executed an amendment, counterpart or supplement to this Agreement and shall have executed such other instruments as the Company may reasonably deem necessary or desirable to admit such transferee as a substituted Series A Member and to evidence such substituted Series A Member's agreement to be bound by and to comply with the terms and provisions hereof; and (iii) the number of Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units to be transferred equals one (1) or any other whole number. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Series A Member shall Transfer any Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units to any Person that, directly or indirectly through one or more Affiliates, is engaged in any material respect in the business of controlling (A) cable systems, (B) direct broadcast satellite systems or (C) incumbent local exchange carriers.
Restrictions on Transfer
Transfer
 
14
     6.2 . If any Series A Member desires to Transfer any of its Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units in a transaction meeting the requirements of Section 6.1, upon the request of such Series A Member, the Company agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide such Series A Member and such proposed purchaser any information concerning the Company reasonably necessary to complete such Transfer; , that the Company shall not be obligated to register any such Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units under the Securities Act or to make or take any action to make any such Series A Preferred Equity Membership Unit eligible for sale under Rule 144 or Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act; and , , that any such proposed purchaser shall enter into an agreement with, and in form and substance reasonably acceptable to, the Company containing provisions substantially the same as those of Section 8.16.
Commercially Reasonable Efforts
provided
provided
further
     7.1 . Without the prior consent of the Series A Members owning a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units, for so long as the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units are outstanding, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries shall consummate any material sale or transfer of its respective assets at any time during which the Company and its subsidiaries maintain, collectively, cable systems serving fewer than 500,000 cable subscribers, or that would (after giving effect to such sale) cause the Company and its subsidiaries to maintain, collectively, cable systems serving fewer than 500,000 cable subscribers; , , that in no case shall this provision restrict a transaction that is consummated on or immediately prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date all or a portion of the net proceeds of which are applied substantially simultaneously to redeem the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units pursuant to Section 4(a) of to this Agreement. For purposes of calculating the number of cable subscribers described in the preceding sentence, the number of cable subscribers served by cable systems maintained by any less than wholly owned subsidiary of the Company shall be deemed to be a number of cable subscribers which is equal to the product of (a) the total number of cable subscribers maintained by such subsidiary, multiplied by (b) the percentage of residual equity interest in such subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries. For purposes of this Section 7.1, a "subsidiary" is any entity in which the Company owns a majority of the voting or general partnership interests.
Restriction On Asset Sales
provided
however
Annex I
     7.2 . For so long as the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units are outstanding, the Company shall deliver to each Series A Member the following financial information:
Provision of Financial Information
          (a) within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of TWC, TWC's audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, and reported on by
 
15
Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of TWC and its consolidated subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
          (b) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of TWC, TWC's unaudited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by TWC's Chief Financial Officer as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of TWC and its consolidated subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
          (c) within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, the Company's unaudited (or, if prepared, audited) consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, members' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all such historical financial statements certified by the Company's Executive Vice President & Treasurer as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to the absence of footnotes;
          (d) within 75 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, the Company's unaudited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, members' equity and cash flows, and, commencing for the third fiscal quarter of 2007, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by the Company's Executive Vice President & Treasurer as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes; , , that the Company shall not be required to deliver any quarterly statements of cash flows for the third fiscal quarter of 2006;
provided
however
          (e) within 90 days after the end of each taxable year, a statement as to the amount of dividends paid in respect of such taxable year out of current and accumulated earnings and profits of the Company, as determined for United States federal income tax purposes and certified by the Company's Executive Vice President & Treasurer; and
          (f) within 10 days after the filing of the Company's United States federal income tax return (or that of the consolidated group of which the Company
 
16
is a member), a statement certified by the Company's Senior Vice President, Tax as to the amount of taxable income of the Company on a stand-alone basis as reflected on such tax return (taking into account the taxable income of any subsidiaries of the Company that are consolidated with the Company for United States federal income tax purposes) for the taxable year covered by such tax return.
     7.3 . The Company shall obtain a private letter rating from at least two of Moody's, S&P and Fitch in respect of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units as of the date of this Agreement and shall have such rating updated by at least two of such rating agencies at least annually thereafter.
Rating
     7.4 . The Company agrees not to repurchase, directly or indirectly, through any of its Affiliates, all or part of any Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units held by a Series A Member without offering to purchase the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units held by all other Series A Members on a pro rata basis and at the same price and on the same terms.
Company Repurchase
     8.1 The Company has elected to be taxed as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. The Common Equity Member agrees at all times to maintain (or cause the Company to maintain) the Company's election to be treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Holders of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units, the Common Equity Member and the Company agree to treat the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units as non-voting preferred stock for federal income tax purposes. Each of the Members agrees that this Section 8.1 shall survive the Liquidation or termination of the Company.
Tax Matters.
     8.2 . Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived by an instrument in writing executed by the Common Equity Member; , , that (a) any amendment (whether by merger or otherwise) or waiver of any terms or provisions directly affecting the rights or privileges of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units shall require the consent of the Series A Members holding a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units; (b) without the consent of each Series A Member, an amendment (whether by merger or otherwise) may not authorize, create (by way of reclassification, merger, consolidation or otherwise) or issue any class or series of equity interest of the Company, the terms of which expressly provide that it will rank senior to, or on parity with, the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units with respect to dividends or distributions of assets or rights upon a Liquidation; and (c) without the consent of each Series A Member, an amendment (whether by merger or otherwise) may not revise any terms governing redemption, liquidation preference or dividends of Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units as described in to this Agreement, the definition of Liquidation Value in Section 1.1 (Definitions) of this Agreement or this Section 8.2. For purposes of any consents of Series A Members under this Section or otherwise, any
Amendments; Waiver
provided
however
Annex I
 
17
Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units owned by the Company or any of its Affiliates shall be deemed not to be outstanding and the holder thereof shall be deemed not to be a Series A Member.
     8.3 .
Power of Attorney
          (a) . Each Member by its execution of this Agreement irrevocably makes, constitutes and appoints the Company as its true and lawful agent and attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution to its Affiliates and full power and authority in its name, place and stead, to make, execute, sign, acknowledge, swear to, record and file: (i) all certificates and other instruments deemed advisable by the Company to permit the Company to become or to continue as a limited liability company or other entity wherein the Members have limited liability in each jurisdiction where the Company is currently doing business or may in the future do business; and (ii) all fictitious or assumed name certificates required or permitted to be filed on behalf of the Company.
Appointment of Power of Attorney
          (b) . With respect to each Member, the foregoing power of attorney:
Nature and Exercise of Power of Attorney
               (i) is coupled with an interest, shall be irrevocable and shall survive the incapacity, death, dissolution, termination or bankruptcy of such Member;
               (ii) may be exercised by the Company either by signing separately as attorney-in-fact for such Member or, after listing all of the Members executing an instrument, by the signature of the Company acting as attorney-in-fact for all of them; and
               (iii) shall survive the delivery of an assignment by such Member of the whole or any fraction of its interest.
     8.4 . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and permitted assigns of the Members.
Successors and Assigns
     8.5 . No provision of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been waived unless such waiver is given in writing, and no such waiver shall be deemed to be a waiver of any other or further obligation or liability of the party or parties in whose favor such waiver was given.
No Waiver
     8.6 . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all notices hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by personal delivery, delivered by Federal Express or other reputable courier service, by U.S. overnight mail or international air courier service, or sent by telecopy or other electronic means including electronic mail, and addressed: if to the Company, at its principal office and, if to a Member, to such Member at its last known address as disclosed on the records of the Company. Notices shall be deemed to have been given as of the date delivered by the delivery
Notices
 
18
service (upon confirmed receipt by such delivery service) or by telecopy or other electronic means including electronic mail (upon confirmed receipt). The Company and any Member may change its respective address for notices by delivering or mailing in accordance with this Section 8.6, a notice stating the change and setting forth the changed address.
     8.7 . In case any provision in this Agreement shall be deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired hereby.
Severability
     8.8 . This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one instrument.
Counterparts
     8.9 . The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings, Etc
     8.10 . As used herein, masculine pronouns shall include the feminine and neuter, neuter pronouns shall include the masculine and the feminine, and the singular shall be deemed to include the plural.
Gender
     8.11 . The Members, on behalf of themselves and their successors and assigns, if any, hereby specifically renounce, waive and forfeit all rights, whether arising under contract or statute or by operation of law, except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, to seek, bring or maintain any action in any court of law or equity for partition of the Company or any asset of the Company, or any interest that is considered to be Company property, regardless of the manner in which title to such property may be held.
No Right to Partition
     8.12 . Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, this Agreement is intended solely for the benefit of the parties hereto, the Covered Persons and, with respect to the Company, its Affiliates and is not intended to confer any benefits upon, or create any rights in favor of, any Person other than the parties hereto, the Covered Persons and, with respect to the Company, its Affiliates.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
     8.13 . Notwithstanding any duty, including any fiduciary duty, that might otherwise exist under law or in equity, any Member or any Affiliate of any Member may engage in or possess an interest in other business ventures of any nature or description, independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to the business of the Company, and the Company and any Member shall have no rights by virtue of this Agreement in and to such independent ventures or the income or profits derived therefrom, and the pursuit of any such venture, even if competitive with the business of the Company, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper. Notwithstanding any duty, including any fiduciary duty, that might otherwise exist under law or in equity, any Member or any Affiliate of any Member shall not be obligated to present any particular investment opportunity to the Company even if such opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Company, could be taken by the Company and any
Outside Business
 
19
Member or any Affiliate of any Member shall have the right to take for its own account (individually or as a Member, member, shareholder, fiduciary or otherwise) or to recommend to others any such particular investment opportunity.
     8.14 . This Agreement (including hereto) constitutes the entire agreement among the Members with respect to the matters described herein and supersedes any prior agreement or understanding among them with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
Annex I
     8.15 . The general rule of construction for interpreting a contract, which provides that the provisions of a contract should be construed against the party preparing the contract, is waived by the parties hereto. Each party acknowledges that such party was represented by legal counsel in this matter who participated in the preparation of this Agreement.
Rule of Construction
     8.16 .
Confidentiality
          (a) Each of the Series A Members agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (i) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (ii) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority (including any self-regulatory authority), (iii) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process (, that in connection with any such requirement by a subpoena or similar legal process, the Company is given prior notice to the extent such prior notice is permissible under the circumstances and an opportunity to object to such disclosure), (iv) to any other party to this Agreement, (v) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (vi) subject to an express agreement for the benefit of the Company containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section 8.16, to any (x) proposed purchaser described in Section 6.2, (y) permitted assignee of any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (z) hedging agreement counterparty (or such contractual counterparty's professional advisor), (vii) with the consent of the Company or (viii) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section 8.16 or (y) becomes available to such Series A Member on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company, whether oral or written, relating to the Company or its business, other than any such information that is available to such Series A Member on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company.
provided
Information
          (b) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, to comply with Treas. Reg. 1.6011-4(b)(3)(i), the Members (and any employee, representative or other agent of such Members) may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Company or any
 
20
transactions undertaken by the Company and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to it relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
     8.17 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
Applicable Law
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Time Warner NY Cable LLC as of the date first above written.
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Time Warner NY Cable LLC
 
 
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Time Warner NY Cable LLC
 
 
     This is a part of the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Time Warner NY Cable LLC. The terms of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units included this shall be in addition to the terms described in the Agreement. All defined terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in Section 1.1 of the Agreement.
Annex I
Annex I
     1. . The Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units shall, with respect to dividends and distributions of assets and rights upon a Liquidation, rank senior to the Common Equity Interests.
Rank
     2. . The Series A Members shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available therefor, quarterly dividends on the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units, which shall accrue in each quarterly period (or portion thereof) on each unit at a rate per annum equal to 8.21% of the sum of the Liquidation Value plus Unpaid Dividends (if any), calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and accruing on a daily basis. All dividends will be cumulative and accrue, whether or not declared, during the period from July 28, 2006 to the Mandatory Redemption Date and, if declared, will be payable quarterly in arrears on February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1 of each year, commencing November 1, 2006 or if any such date is not a business day, on the next succeeding business day (each a ""), to the Series A Members of record on the respective January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 immediately preceding the relevant Dividend Payment Date. Such quarterly dividends shall be paid by wire transfer of immediately available funds to accounts designated in writing to the Company by each of the Series A Members.
Dividends
Dividend Payment Date
     3. .
Liquidation Preference
          (a). Upon the occurrence of a Liquidation, each Series A Member shall be entitled to receive an amount of the assets of the Company legally available for distribution to the Series A Members, equal to the Liquidation Value, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, with respect to each outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Unit held by such Series A Member, before any payment or distribution is made to the Common Equity Member. If the assets of the Company legally available for distribution to the Series A Members shall be insufficient to permit payment in full to such Series A Members of the sums which the Series A Members are entitled to receive, then all of the assets available for distribution to the Series A Members shall be distributed among and paid to the Series A Members ratably in proportion to the amounts that would be payable to the Series A Members if such assets were sufficient to permit payment in full.
 Priority Payment
 
 
          (b) . After the Series A Members shall have been paid in full the amounts to which they are entitled in Section 3(a) above, the Series A Members shall not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Company and the remaining assets of the Company shall be distributed to the Common Equity Member.
No Additional Payment
          (c) . Written notice of a Liquidation stating a payment or payments and the place where such payment or payments shall be payable, shall be delivered in person, mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, mailed by overnight mail or sent by telecopier, not less than ten (10) days prior to the earliest payment date stated therein, to the Series A Members and be addressed to each Series A Member at its address as shown in the records of the Company.
Notice
     4. .
Redemption
          (a). On August 1, 2013 (the ""), all outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units shall automatically, with no further action required to be taken by the Company or the Series A Members, be redeemed in cash, at a redemption price per unit equal to the Liquidation Value plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the extent funds are legally available therefor. The redemption price shall be paid by wire transfer of immediately available funds to accounts designated in writing to the Company by each of the Series A Members. If any amounts are not so paid on the Mandatory Redemption Date (including without limitation as a result of Section 4(c) below), dividends shall accrue with respect to such amounts at a rate per annum equal to 10.21% until so paid.
 Mandatory Redemption
Mandatory Redemption Date
          (b) . Once all outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units held by a Series A Member are redeemed in full pursuant to Section 4(a) above or Section 4(c) below, as the case may be, all rights of such Series A Member shall cease and terminate and such Series A Member shall cease to be a member of the Company. Any Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units redeemed in full shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding.
Termination of Rights
          (c) . If the funds of the Company legally available for redemption of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units on the Mandatory Redemption Date are insufficient to redeem the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units on such date, the Series A Members shall share ratably in any funds legally available for redemption of such Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units according to the respective amounts which would be payable to them if the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units were redeemed in full. At any time thereafter when additional funds of the Company are legally available for the redemption of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units, such funds shall be used, at the end of the fiscal quarter next ended, to redeem the balance of such Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units, or such portion thereof for which funds are available, ratably on the basis set forth above. Any Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units that are not redeemed in full pursuant to this Section 4 shall be deemed outstanding.
Insufficient Funds for Redemption
 
 
     5. 
Voting Rights; Election of Series A Director
          (a) . Except as provided in Section 5(b) below, the Series A Members shall have no voting rights in respect of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units.
Voting Rights
          (b) . During any Trigger Period, the Series A Members shall be entitled to elect the Series A Director. The Series A Director shall be elected by the affirmative vote or written consent of the Series A Members holding a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units. A vacancy in the Series A Director (if applicable) shall be filled only by the affirmative vote or written consent of the Series A Members holding a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units. The Series A Director may not be removed without the affirmative vote or written consent of the Series A Members holding a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units.
Election of Directors
     6. . Except as provided in the following sentence, the Company may consolidate or merge with or into any Person or Persons or convert from a limited liability company to a corporation, partnership or other entity with the consent of the Common Equity Member. Notwithstanding the foregoing, without the consent of the Series A Members holding a majority of the outstanding Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units, the Company shall not consolidate or merge with or into any Person or Persons or convert from a limited liability company to a corporation, partnership or other entity unless (x) in the case of a consolidation or merger, such consolidation or merger is permitted under Section 7.1 of the Agreement and (y) if the Company is not the surviving entity or is no longer a limited liability company, (1) the Series A Members shall have the right to receive, in exchange for each Series A Preferred Equity Membership Unit, a security with terms not less favorable than those of the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units and (2) except to the extent previously consented by the Series A Members, the surviving entity shall not have any issued and outstanding class or series of equity interest, the terms of which expressly provide that it will rank senior to, or on parity with, such security received by the Series A Members in exchange for the Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units, with respect to dividends or distributions of assets or rights upon a Liquidation; , , that:
Merger, Consolidation and Conversion
provided
however
          (a) no such consolidation or merger with any Person who is not an Affiliate of the Company shall be permitted without the prior consent of all of the Series A Members unless the Company receives a tax opinion from nationally recognized counsel providing that such consolidation or merger (1) will not adversely affect the characterization of the interests held by the Series A Members as stock of a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes and (2) will not be taxable to the Series A Members for United States federal income tax purposes; and
          (b) no such consolidation or merger with any Person who is an Affiliate of the Company or conversion, as the case may be, shall be permitted without the prior consent of all of the Series A Members unless the Company receives a tax opinion of the type described in Section 6(a) above and such consolidation, merger or
 
 
conversion would not reasonably be expected to adversely affect the ability of the Series A Members to receive a dividends received deduction with respect to distributions in respect of the Units (including as a result of a current or future reduction in the earnings and profits of the Company).
     For purposes of this to the Agreement, funds or assets "legally available" shall mean the funds or assets that would be available to pay dividends on, or the purchase or redemption price of, preferred stock assuming that the Company were a corporation subject to and in compliance with Section 160 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. For purposes of the foregoing, all of the consideration received by the Company for its Common Equity Interests and its Series A Preferred Equity Membership Units shall be deemed to be surplus.
Annex I
 

 
Exhibit 10.6
EXECUTION COPY
     This Agreement and Declaration of Trust (this "") is entered into as of December 18, 2003, by and between Kansas City Cable Partners, a Colorado general partnership (the ""), and Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, as Delaware trustee hereunder (the "").
Agreement
Grantor
Delaware Trustee
     WHEREAS, the Grantor and the Delaware Trustee desire to form a trust (the "") in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, 12 Del. C.  3801 et seq., as amended (the ""), and intend that this Agreement constitute the "governing instrument" of the Trust;
Trust
Trust Act
     WHEREAS, the Grantor has entered into that certain Agreement of Merger and Transaction Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2003 (as amended from time to time, the ""), among the Grantor, Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership, TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company, TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation, TCI of Missouri, Inc. (formerly known as Liberty Cable of Missouri, Inc.), a Missouri corporation, TCI of Overland Park, Inc., a Kansas corporation, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) thereof), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) thereof);
Transaction Agreement
TCP
 
2
WHEREAS, the Transaction Agreement provides for the merger of KCCP with and into TCP (the ""), with TCP as the surviving limited partnership (the "");
Merger
Combined Partnership
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 1(b) of the Transaction Agreement, the Grantor has agreed to transfer all of the KCCP Assets (as defined herein), subject to all of the KCCP Liabilities (as defined herein), to the Trust prior to the Merger pursuant to an Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement substantially in the form attached to the Transaction Agreement as Exhibit B (the ""); and
Transfer Agreement
     WHEREAS, upon the consummation of the Merger, the Combined Partnership shall succeed to all of the Grantor's rights, powers, duties and obligations under this Agreement.
     Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 13 of this Agreement.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     .
1. 
ORGANIZATION
          (a) . The name of this trust is "KCCP Trust." The Trust may change its name to any other name or names selected by the Grantor.
Name
     (b) . The principal office of the Trust shall be in the care of the Grantor at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902, or such other place inside or outside the State of Delaware as the Grantor may designate from time to time. The Grantor shall give prompt notice of any such change to the Delaware Trustee.
Principal Office
 
3
          (c) . The purposes of the Trust shall be, as determined from time to time by the Grantor, to acquire, hold and transfer or otherwise dispose of the Assets of the Trust and engage in any lawful activity for which a statutory trust may be organized under the Trust Act.
Purposes
          (d) . The address of the Delaware Trustee in Delaware is Wilmington Trust Company, 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890. The Delaware Trustee is appointed to serve as the trustee of the Trust in Delaware for the sole purpose of satisfying the requirements of Section 3807 of the Trust Act that the Trust have at least one trustee with a principal place of business in Delaware. The Delaware Trustee accepts the Trust hereby created and agrees to perform its duties hereunder with respect to the Trust but only upon the terms of this Agreement. It is understood and agreed by the parties hereto that the Delaware Trustee shall have only the rights, obligations and liabilities specifically provided for herein and in the Trust Act and shall have no implied rights, obligations and liabilities with respect to the affairs of the Trust. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, unless specifically directed by the Grantor and consented to by the Delaware Trustee, the Delaware Trustee shall not participate in any decisions relating to, or possess any authority independently to manage or control, the business of the Trust. In no event shall the Delaware Trustee have any liability for the acts or omissions of the Grantor. The rights and duties of the Delaware Trustee shall be limited to (i) accepting legal process served on the Trust in Delaware and (ii) the execution, delivery, acknowledgement and filing of any documents necessary to form and maintain the Trust as required by the Trust Act. To the extent that, at law or in equity, the Delaware Trustee has duties (including fiduciary duties) and
Delaware Trustee
 
4
liabilities relating thereto to the Trust or Grantor, it is hereby understood and agreed by the parties hereto, including Grantor, that such duties and liabilities are replaced by the duties and liabilities of the Delaware Trustee expressly set forth in this Agreement. The Grantor shall reasonably keep the Delaware Trustee informed of any actions taken by the Grantor with respect to the Trust that affect the rights, obligations or liabilities of the Delaware Trustee hereunder or under the Trust Act.
          (e) . The Grantor hereby acknowledges that in accordance with Section 1(b) of the Transaction Agreement, and pursuant to the Transfer Agreement and subject to the terms set forth therein, it shall assign, transfer or otherwise convey to the Trust for the benefit of the Holders all of the KCCP Assets, and the Trust shall accept such assignment, transfer and conveyance of the KCCP Assets and assume all of the KCCP Liabilities. It is the intention of the parties hereto that the Trust be a statutory trust under the Trust Act. The Delaware Trustee shall execute and file a Certificate of Trust pursuant to Section 3810 of the Trust Act in the form attached hereto as . The Delaware Trustee at the direction of the Grantor is hereby authorized to execute any amendment or restatement of the Certificate of Trust so long as such amendment or restatement is not inconsistent with the provisions hereof. The Trust is not intended to be, shall not be deemed to be, and shall not be treated as, a general partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, corporation or joint stock company.
Declaration of Trust
Exhibit A
          (f) . Title to all of the Assets of the Trust shall be vested in the Trust until disposed of by the Trust upon dissolution or otherwise; , , if the applicable laws of any jurisdiction require that title to any part of the Assets of the Trust be vested in a trustee of the Trust, then title to that
No Individual Ownership
provided
however
 
5
part of the Assets of the Trust shall be vested in a trustee appointed by the Grantor to the extent so required.
          (g) . The parties hereby agree that the Trust shall be treated as a "grantor trust" or, in the event the Trust shall be engaged in the conduct of a business for profit, as a business entity that is disregarded as separate from Grantor for purposes of the U.S. Federal, state and local tax laws, and further agree: (i) not to take any position (or cause the Trust to do so), in a tax return or otherwise, or take any other action, that is inconsistent with such treatment; and (ii) to take all commercially reasonable actions necessary to cause the Trust to be so treated, in each case, unless there is a Final Determination or a change in applicable law (including a revenue ruling or other similar pronouncement) that causes the Trust not to be treated in the manner described in this Section 1(g).
Tax Treatment
     Pursuant to Section 3806 of the Trust Act, except as set forth in Section 1(d) above, the Trust shall be administered by the Grantor in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Combined Partnership Agreement and the Delaware Trustee hereby delegates its authority over the administration of the Trust to the Grantor. The Grantor shall have and may exercise, at any time, in the name of the Trust or on the Trust's behalf the following powers and authorities, in each case, subject to the limitations that the Combined Partnership is subject to under the Combined Partnership Agreement:
2. 
POWER & AUTHORITY
.
          (a) . To engage in all activities and transactions which the Combined Partnership is permitted to engage in
Combined Partnership Activities
 
6
pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Combined Partnership Agreement, subject to the limitations set forth in the Combined Partnership Agreement.
          (b) . To borrow or in any other manner raise money for the purposes and on the terms it determines, and to evidence the same by issuance of any Securities of the Trust, which may have such provisions as the Grantor determines; to reacquire such Securities of the Trust; to enter into other contracts or obligations on behalf of the Trust; to guarantee, indemnify or act as surety with respect to payment or performance of obligations of any Person; to mortgage, pledge, assign, grant security interests in or otherwise encumber the Trust Property to secure any such Securities of the Trust, contracts or obligations (including guaranties, indemnifications and suretyships); and to renew, modify, release, compromise, extend, consolidate or cancel, in whole or in part, any obligation to or of the Trust or participate in any reorganization of obligors to the Trust.
Financing
          (c) . To lend money or other Trust Property on such terms, for such purposes and to such Persons (including, without limitation, the Grantor or any entity wholly or partially owned by the Trust) as the Grantor may determine.
Loans
          (d) . In connection with any transaction permitted under Section 2(b) of this Agreement, to create and authorize the issuance, in shares, units or amounts of one or more types, series or classes, of Securities of the Trust, which may have such voting rights, dividend or interest rates, preferences, subordinations, conversion or redemption prices or rights, maturity dates, distribution, exchange, or liquidation rights or other rights as the Grantor may determine; to issue any type of Securities of the Trust, and any options, warrants, or rights to subscribe therefor,
Issuance of Securities
 
7
to such Persons for such consideration (or without consideration), at such time or times, in such manner and on such terms as the Grantor may determine; and to purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, hold, cancel, reissue, sell and transfer any Securities of the Trust.
          (e) . To declare and pay distributions in cash or in kind to the Holders, subject to the provisions of Section 4 hereof.
Distributions
          (f) . To sell, license, assign, grant security interests in, encumber, negotiate, grant options with respect to, convey, transfer (including transfers to the Grantor or entities wholly or partially owned by the Trust) or otherwise dispose of any or all of the Trust Property by assignments, bills of sale, transfers, licenses, financing statements, security agreements and other instruments for any of such purposes executed and delivered for and on behalf of the Trust by the Grantor or one or more duly authorized agents of the Trust, on such terms as the Grantor deems appropriate; and to give consents and make contracts relating to the Trust Property and its use or other matters.
Sale, Disposition and Use of Trust Property
          (g) . To delegate to one or more Persons (including the general manager of the Grantor or any Affiliate of the Grantor) such authority and duties with respect to the management of the Trust, including without limitation the operation, maintenance and supervision of the cable television systems owned by the Trust, as the Grantor may deem advisable; to cause the Trust to enter into a management agreement substantially in the form of attached hereto (the ""); and to cause the Trust to perform its obligations thereunder.
General Manager
Exhibit B
Management Agreement
          (h) . To do all other actions and things and execute and deliver all instruments incident to the foregoing powers, and to exercise all
Further Powers
 
8
powers that it deems necessary, useful or desirable to carry on the activities of the Trust or to carry out the provisions of this Agreement, even if such powers are not specifically provided for herein.
     .
3. 
BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP; TRUST CERTIFICATES AND TRANSFER OF INTERESTS
          (a) . The units into which beneficial interest in the Trust are divided shall be designated as "Ownership Interests." Ownership Interests shall be expressed as a percentage beneficial interest in the Assets of the Trust. Ownership Interests in the Trust shall be represented by Trust Certificates (each a, "") substantially in the form of attached hereto.
Ownership Interests
Trust Certificate
Exhibit C
          (b) . The Grantor shall initially be the sole owner of the Ownership Interests.
Initial Ownership
          (c) . The Grantor shall not issue any Securities of the Trust, including any Ownership Interests, to any Person other than in connection with a financing transaction permitted under Section 2(b) of this Agreement.
Limitation on Issuance of Securities
          (d) .
Issuance of Trust Certificate
     (i) As of the date hereof, the Registrar has issued and delivered to the Grantor a Trust Certificate in the name of the Grantor evidencing 100% of the Ownership Interests.
     (ii) Each Trust Certificate shall be executed by manual or facsimile signature by an authorized officer of the Registrar. Trust Certificates bearing the signature of an individual who was, at the time when such signature
 
9
was affixed, authorized to sign on behalf of the Registrar shall bind the Trust, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to be so authorized prior to the delivery of such Trust Certificate or does not hold such office at the date of such Trust Certificate. Each Trust Certificate shall be dated the date of its issuance.
          (e) .
Registration and Transfer of Trust Certificates
               (i) The Person who shall maintain the Trust's certificate register shall be referred to herein as the "Registrar." The Registrar shall maintain at its office a certificate register for the registration and transfer of Trust Certificates as herein provided. The Grantor shall be the initial Registrar.
               (ii) A Holder may transfer all or any portion of the beneficial interest in the Trust evidenced by such Holder's Trust Certificate upon surrender thereof to the Registrar accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder. In addition any transferee of a Trust Certificate shall execute and deliver to the Registrar (1) a letter, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Registrar, agreeing to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and (2) if requested by the Registrar, a written opinion of counsel in form and substance satisfactory to the Registrar to the effect that the proposed transfer may be effected without registration under any state or Federal securities laws.
               (iii) Upon receipt of the documents set forth in Section 3(e)(ii) above, including the surrender of the Trust Certificate, the Registrar shall record in the certificate register the name of the designated transferee as a Holder and shall execute on behalf of the Trust, authenticate, deliver and issue to such
 
10
transferee a new Trust Certificate evidencing the Ownership Interests transferred to the transferee. Subsequent to a transfer and upon the issuance of the new Trust Certificate, the Registrar shall cancel and destroy the Trust Certificate surrendered to it in connection with such transfer. The Registrar may treat the Person in whose name any Trust Certificate is registered as the sole owner of the Ownership Interests in the Trust evidenced by such Trust Certificate.
               (iv) No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Trust Certificates, but the Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any transfer or exchange of Trust Certificates.
          (f) . If (1) any mutilated Trust Certificate is surrendered to the Registrar, or the Registrar receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Trust Certificate, and (2) there is delivered to the Registrar proof of such ownership satisfactory to the Registrar, and such security or indemnity as may be required by it to indemnify and hold the Registrar harmless, then the Registrar shall execute on behalf of the Trust, and shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for or in lieu of any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Trust Certificate, a replacement Trust Certificate representing the same Ownership Interest in the Trust as such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Trust Certificate. Such substitute Trust Certificate shall constitute for all purposes a substitute for the original Trust Certificate, which original Trust Certificate shall be deemed canceled and the books and records of the Registrar shall indicate such cancellation.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Trust Certificates
 
11
     
4. 
DISTRIBUTIONS
.
          (a) A Holder shall be entitled to receive distributions from time to time as may be declared by the Grantor in its sole discretion in proportion to such Holder's Ownership Interests. All distributions to be made to Holders under this Agreement shall be from the income, proceeds or assets of the Trust Property.
          (b) A Holder may assign all or any part of its right to receive distributions hereunder, but in the absence of a transfer pursuant to Section 3(e) above, such assignment shall effect no change in the ownership of the Trust.
     
5. 
CONCERNING THE DELAWARE TRUSTEE
.
          (a) . The Delaware Trustee, and any successor Delaware Trustee, shall be either a natural person who is a resident of the State of Delaware or a legal entity having its principal place of business in the State of Delaware, in each case appointed by the Grantor.
Selection
          (b) . The Grantor may at any time remove the Delaware Trustee by giving thirty (30) days written notice thereof to the Delaware Trustee, such removal to be effective upon the appointment of a successor Delaware Trustee. The rights and duties of the Delaware Trustee hereunder (other than the Delaware Trustee's rights to receive payments to the extent accrued prior to termination and to be indemnified hereunder) shall terminate upon the incapacity to act, death or bankruptcy or other insolvency of the Delaware Trustee. No interest in the Trust Property, nor any of the rights and duties of an incapacitated, deceased, bankrupt or insolvent Delaware Trustee, may be transferred by the Delaware Trustee by will, devise, succession or in any other manner except as provided in this Agreement. The Delaware
Removal, Resignation and Replacement
 
12
Trustee may resign by giving sixty (60) days advance written notice of resignation to the Grantor, provided that the Delaware Trustee agrees that any such resignation shall not become effective until a successor Delaware Trustee has been appointed. In the event of the Delaware Trustee's resignation, removal, incapacity to act, death or bankruptcy or other insolvency, the Delaware Trustee shall be succeeded by a successor trustee chosen by the Grantor in compliance with the terms of this Agreement. Any successor Delaware Trustee shall succeed to all of the rights and obligations of the Delaware Trustee replaced hereunder upon execution by such successor trustee of a counterpart of this Agreement. A successor Delaware Trustee shall not be liable for breaches of this Agreement committed by a predecessor Delaware Trustee.
          (c) . In consideration for providing services hereunder, the Delaware Trustee shall be entitled to receive compensation from the Trust in an amount set forth in a fee agreement to be entered into by the Delaware Trustee and the Trust. Such compensation shall be payable by the Trust in the manner set forth in such fee agreement. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that any obligation under this Agreement or the fee agreement to pay compensation to the Delaware Trustee shall be an obligation of the Trust and not of the Grantor.
Compensation
          (d) . The Grantor hereby agrees to indemnify the Delaware Trustee and hold the Delaware Trustee harmless against all claims, actions, proceedings, suits, costs of defense (including reasonable and customary attorneys' and accountants' fees and disbursements), expenses, liabilities, judgments, damages, awards and settlements asserted against or incurred by such Delaware Trustee in connection with, or in any way arising directly or indirectly from, the performance by the Delaware
Indemnification
 
13
Trustee of its duties under this Agreement; , that the indemnification provided for in this Section 5(d) shall not apply to any claims or liabilities arising from the Delaware Trustee's Malfeasance. Except as incurred as a result of its own Malfeasance, the Delaware Trustee shall not be liable with respect to actions taken by it in reliance upon any paper, document or signature reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed by the proper party that is not in fact genuine. The Delaware Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment in any act done or omitted, nor for any mistake of fact or law, nor for anything which it may do or refrain from doing in accordance with this Agreement, absent the Delaware Trustee's Malfeasance. The Delaware Trustee may consult with accountants, attorneys and other advisors, and any action taken in accordance with the advice of such advisor shall be presumptively done in good faith.
provided
          (e) . The Delaware Trustee shall not be required to furnish a bond or other security in any jurisdiction for the faithful performance of its duties under this Agreement.
No Bond
          (f) . The Delaware Trustee shall not be liable for the acts or omissions of the Grantor, nor shall the Delaware Trustee be liable for supervising or monitoring the performance of the duties and obligations of the Grantor or the Trust under this Agreement or any related document. The Delaware Trustee shall not be personally liable under any circumstances, except for its own Malfeasance.
Limitation of Liability
          (g) . Any Person into which the Delaware Trustee may be merged or with which it may be consolidated, or
Merger or Consolidation of Delaware Trustee
 
14
any Person resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Delaware Trustee shall be a party, or any Person which succeeds to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Delaware Trustee, shall be the successor Delaware Trustee under this Agreement without the execution, delivery or filing of any paper or instrument or further act to be done on the part of the parties hereto, except as may be required by applicable law.
     . The Grantor shall have the right to retain such accountants, attorneys, investment bankers, managing underwriters and other advisors as are necessary or appropriate to enable the Grantor to perform in a prudent and competent manner the duties and obligations of the Grantor under this Agreement.
6. 
ADVISORS
     The Grantor shall maintain such records, files and books as the Grantor, in the Grantor's reasonable discretion, deems necessary or appropriate to enable the Grantor to carry out the terms and conditions of this Agreement and to record the actions taken by the Grantor in the performance of the Grantor's duties under this Agreement.
7. 
BOOKS & RECORDS
.
     
8. 
TERMINATION
.
          (a) The Trust shall dissolve upon the earlier of (i) ten (10) years from the date hereof; (ii) the date upon which the Grantor is dissolved; or (iii) the first date upon which the Grantor revokes the Trust (any such event, a "").
Dissolution Event
          (b) None of the Holders (other than the Grantor as provided in Section 8(a)) nor the Delaware Trustee shall be entitled to dissolve or terminate the Trust.
 
15
          (c) Upon dissolution of the Trust, the Grantor shall take such action as is necessary or appropriate to deliver to the Holders, or such other party designated by the Holders, all property then held by the Trust pursuant to this Agreement, subject to satisfaction (whether by payment or reasonable provision therefor) of claims of all creditors of the Trust including, without limitation, the Delaware Trustee. The Grantor shall have a reasonable period to conclude the administration of the Trust, and shall be compensated for all reasonably necessary services performed after the dissolution date. Following completion by the Grantor of the actions required by this Section 8(c), the Grantor and the Delaware Trustee shall terminate the legal existence of the Trust by canceling the Certificate of Trust in accordance with the Trust Act.
     This Agreement and all matters concerning the performance, enforcement and interpretation hereof shall be kept in strict confidence by the parties, except where disclosure is required by law, rule or regulation, to carry out the express purposes and terms of this Agreement, or in connection with any claims or actions relating to this Agreement. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, any party hereto (and each officer, director, employee, representative or other agent of any such party) is permitted to disclose to any and all Persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) related to such tax treatment and tax structure; , that this Section 9 shall not permit any Person to disclose, except as otherwise set forth herein, the name of, or other information that would identify, any party to such transactions or to disclose confidential commercial or strategic information, or other
9. 
CONFIDENTIALITY
.
provided
 
16
proprietary information regarding such transactions not related to such tax treatment and tax structure.
     .
10. 
FIDUCIARY DUTY
          (a) To the extent that, at law or in equity, the Grantor has duties (including fiduciary duties) and liabilities relating thereto to the Trust, any Holder, or to any other Person, the Grantor acting under this Agreement shall not be liable to the Trust, any Holder, or to any other Person for its good faith reliance on the provisions of this Agreement. In no event shall the Grantor have any liability except for its own Malfeasance in the management of the Trust. The provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of the Grantor otherwise existing at law or in equity are agreed by the parties hereto to replace completely such other duties and liabilities of the Grantor.
          (b) Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, whenever (1) a conflict of interest with respect to the subject matter hereof exists or arises between the Grantor or any of its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Trust or any Holder, or any other Person, on the other hand, or (2) this Agreement or any other agreement contemplated herein or therein provides that the Grantor shall act in a manner that is, or provides terms that are, fair and reasonable to the Trust, any Holder, or any other Person, the Grantor shall resolve such conflict of interest, take such action or provide such terms, considering in each case the relative interest of each party (including its own interest) to such conflict, agreement, transaction or situation and the benefits and burdens relating to such interests, any customary or accepted industry practices, and any applicable generally accepted accounting practices or principles. In the absence of bad faith by the Grantor, the
 
17
resolution, action or terms so made, taken or provided by the Grantor shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement or any other agreement contemplated herein or of any duty or obligation of the Grantor at law or in equity or otherwise.
          (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or otherwise applicable law, whenever in this Agreement the Grantor is permitted or required to make a decision:
               (i) in its "discretion" or under a grant of similar authority, the Grantor shall be entitled to consider such interests and factors as it desires, including its own interests, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, shall have no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of or factors affecting the Trust, any Holder, or any other Person; or
               (ii) in its "good faith" or under another express standard, the Grantor shall act under such express standard and shall not be subject to any other or different standard.
          (d) The Grantor and any Affiliate of the Grantor may engage in or possess an interest in other profit-seeking or business ventures of any nature or description, independently or with others, whether or not such ventures are competitive with the Trust and the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, shall not apply to the Grantor or any Affiliate of the Grantor. If the Grantor acquires knowledge of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for the Trust, the Grantor shall not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to the Trust, and the Grantor shall not be liable to the Trust or any Holder, for breach of any fiduciary or other duty by reason of the fact that the Grantor
 
18
pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another Person, or does not communicate such opportunity or information to the Trust. Neither the Trust nor any Holder, shall have any rights or obligations by virtue of this Agreement or the trust relationship created hereby in or to such independent ventures or the income or profits or losses derived therefrom, and the pursuit of such ventures, even if competitive with the activities of the Trust, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper. The Grantor may engage or be interested in any financial or other transaction with the Trust, any Holder, or any of their respective Affiliates, or may act as depositary for, trustee or agent for, or act on any committee or body of holders of, securities or other obligations of the Trust, any Holder, or their respective Affiliates.
     
11. 
INDEMNIFICATION BY TRUST
          (a) The Trust shall indemnify and hold harmless the Grantor, its successors, assigns, Affiliates, officers, agents, employees and partners, and the Affiliates, officers, agents and employees of the Grantor's partners (collectively, the ""), to the fullest extent permitted by law, from and against, any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, taxes, claims, actions and suits, and any and all costs, expenses and disbursements (including reasonable legal fees and expenses) of any kind and nature whatsoever (collectively, "") which may at any time be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Indemnified Parties in any way relating to or arising out of the administration of the Trust and the Trust Property or the actions or inactions of the Grantor in its capacity as manager of the Trust, except to the extent that an Indemnified Party is found liable for an act or omission involving gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Trust shall, upon request by an Indemnified Party, assume the
Indemnified Parties
Losses
 
19
defense of any claim made against such Indemnified Party in respect of which the Indemnified Party is or may be entitled to indemnification hereunder and shall satisfy any judgment thereon from the Trust Property to the extent such judgment is an indemnified Loss hereunder.
          (b) In the event an Indemnified Party shall be held to be personally liable for any obligation of the Trust solely by reason of the fact that the Grantor is or was at any time a beneficial owner of an Ownership Interest, such Indemnified Party shall be entitled to be indemnified and held harmless out of the Trust Property against all Losses arising from such liability. The Trust shall, upon request by an Indemnified Party, assume the defense of any claim made against such Indemnified Party for any act or obligation of the Trust and shall satisfy any judgment thereon from the Trust Property.
          (c) The Trust shall pay expenses incurred in defending any claim made against such Indemnified Party (including reasonable legal fees and expenses) in advance of the final disposition of such claim upon receipt by the Trust of an undertaking, in form satisfactory to the legal counsel of the Trust, to repay such amount if it shall be determined that such Indemnified Party is not entitled to be indemnified.
     
12. 
REORGANIZATION; MERGER
          (a) . Subject to the limitations that the Grantor is subject to under the Combined Partnership Agreement, the Grantor shall have the power, without the consent of any trustee or Holder, to (i) cause the Trust to convert into or cause the organization of a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust or other organization to take over the Trust Property and carry on the
Reorganization
 
20
affairs of the Trust in exchange for Securities thereof or beneficial interests therein; (ii) merge or consolidate the Trust into, or sell, convey and transfer the Trust Property to, any such corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust or organization in exchange for Securities thereof or beneficial interests therein, and the assumption by the transferee of the liabilities of the Trust; and (iii) in the case of (i) or (ii), as applicable, thereupon terminate the Trust (in the case of a transfer of the Trust Property) and deliver such Securities or beneficial interest ratably among the Holders according to the respective rights of such Holders.
          (b) . Subject to the limitations that the Grantor is subject to under the Combined Partnership Agreement, the Grantor shall have the power, without the consent of any trustee or Holder, to (i) merge the Trust into another entity, (ii) merge another entity into the Trust, (iii) consolidate the Trust with one or more other entities into a new entity, or (iv) sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Trust Property. As provided in Section 3815(f) of the Trust Act (or any successor provision thereto), an agreement of merger or consolidation may (x) effect any amendment to this Agreement, or (y) effect the adoption of a new governing instrument of the Trust if it is the surviving or resulting statutory trust in a merger or consolidation
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Trust Property
     As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
13. 
DEFINITIONS
.
          (a) "" means, when used with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person. As used in the definition of
Affiliate
 
21
          "Affiliate," the term "control" means possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
          (b) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Agreement
          (c) "" means "Assets" as defined in the Transfer Agreement.
Assets
          (d) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
          (e) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement; provided that prior to the Merger, the Combined Partnership shall mean the Grantor.
Combined Partnership
          (f) "" means the Limited Partnership Agreement of the Combined Partnership, dated as of June 23, 1998, as amended from time to time; provided that prior to the Merger, the Combined Partnership Agreement shall mean the Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement of the Grantor, dated as of August 31, 1998, as amended from time to time.
Combined Partnership Agreement
          (g) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to the Agreement, and any successor Delaware Trustee hereunder.
Delaware Trustee
          (h) "" means any of the following: (i) a decision, judgment, decree or other order of a court of original jurisdiction which has become final (i.e., the time for filing an appeal shall have expired), (ii) a closing agreement made under Section 7121 of the Code, or any other settlement agreement
Final Determination
 
22
entered into in connection with an administrative or judicial proceeding, provided, however, that any refund claim shall be deemed approved without regard to any required approval of the Joint Committee on Taxation, (iii) the expiration of the time for instituting a claim for refund, or if a claim was filed, the expiration of the time for instituting suit with respect thereto, or (iv) in any case where judicial review shall be unavailable, a decision, judgment, decree or other order of an administrative official or agency which has become final.
          (i) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Grantor
          (j) "" means a registered owner of a Trust Certificate according to the records of the Registrar.
Holder
          (k) "" means "KCCP Assets" as defined in the Transfer Agreement.
KCCP Assets
          (l) "" means "KCCP Liabilities" as defined in the Transfer Agreement.
KCCP Liabilities
          (m) "" means bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Malfeasance
          (n) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(g).
Management Agreement
          (o) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Merger
          (p) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Ownership Interest
 
23
          (q) "" means any individual, corporation, general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association, unincorporated entity of any kind, or a government or any department or agency thereof.
Person
          (r) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(e)(i).
Registrar
          (s) "" means any Ownership Interests, stock, shares or other evidences of equity or beneficial or other interests, voting trust certificates, bonds, debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, secured or unsecured, convertible, subordinated or otherwise, or in general any instruments commonly known as "securities" or any certificates of interest, shares or participations in, temporary or interim certificates for, receipts for, guarantees of, warrants, options or rights to subscribe to, purchase or acquire, any of the foregoing.
Securities
          (t) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Transaction Agreement
          (u) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Transfer Agreement
          (v) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Trust
          (w) "" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Trust Act
          (x) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).
Trust Certificate
 
24
          (y) "" means the Trust's Assets and all other property, real, personal or otherwise, tangible or intangible, that is transferred or conveyed to the Trust, or that is otherwise owned or acquired by the Trust.
Trust Property
     
14. 
MISCELLANEOUS
.
          (a) . All notices or other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be duly given when delivered in person or by the United States mail or private express mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices
          If to the Grantor:
75 Rockefeller Plaza,
New York, NY 10019
Facsimile: (212) 258-3172
Attention: General Counsel
with a copy to:
290 Harbor Drive
Stamford, CT 06902
Facsimile: (203) 328-0690
Attention: General Counsel
and a copy to:
c/o Comcast Corporation
1500 Market Street
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Facsimile: (215) 981-7794
Attention: General Counsel
          If to the Delaware Trustee:
Wilmington Trust Company
1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890 Facsimile: (302) 636-4144
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
25
     Any party may, by notice to the other parties, change the address to which such notices are to be given.
          (b) . This Agreement shall not be modified except by an instrument in writing executed by Grantor; , that the rights, duties, responsibilities and compensation of the Delaware Trustee shall not be changed without the prior written consent of the Delaware Trustee.
Modification
provided
          (c) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. This Agreement shall not be assignable by the Delaware Trustee. The Grantor shall be entitled to assign its rights hereunder to any person to whom it transfers its entire Ownership Interest.
Assignment
          (d) . If any part of any provision of this Agreement or any other agreement, document or writing given pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement shall be invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, said part shall be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity only, without in any way affecting the remaining part of said provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
          (e) . The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and do not form a part or affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
          (f) . This Agreement, the rights and obligations of the parties hereto, and any claims and disputes relating thereto, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (not including the choice of law rules thereof).
Governing Law
 
26
          (g) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          (h) . The provisions of Sections 5(c), 5(d), 5(e), 9 and 11 shall remain in effect, and shall survive, any termination of this Agreement or the Trust.
Survival
          (i) . The failure of the Grantor or the Delaware Trustee to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of such right or provision.
No Waiver
          (j) . This Agreement, together with the Certificate of Trust and the Management Agreement, is the complete and exclusive agreement between the parties with respect to the creation, operation and termination of the Trust, superseding and replacing any and all prior agreements, communications and understandings, written or oral, regarding the Trust.
Entire Agreement
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement or caused this Agreement to be duly executed on their behalf as of the date and year first hereinabove set forth.
 
 
     This Certificate of Trust of KCCP Trust (the "), dated December ___, 2003, is being duly executed and filed by Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, as trustee, to form a statutory trust under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (12 ,  3801 ) (the ").
Trust"
Del. Code
et seq.
Act"
     1. . The name of the statutory trust formed hereby is KCCP Trust.
Name
     2. . The name and business address of the trustee of the Trust in the State of Delaware is Wilmington Trust Company, Rodney Square North, 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration.
Delaware Trustee
     3. . This Certificate of Trust shall be effective upon its filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.
Effective Date
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate of Trust in accordance with Section 3811(a)(1) of the Act.
 
 
 
30
THIS TRUST CERTIFICATE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED ("), OR WITH ANY SECURITIES REGULATORY AUTHORITY IN ANY JURISDICTION OR UNDER THE SECURITIES LAWS OR "BLUE SKY" LAWS OF ANY STATE. THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, HYPOTHECATED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED OR DISPOSED OF UNLESS SUBSEQUENTLY REGISTERED UNDER THE 1933 ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES AND BLUE SKY LAWS OR UNLESS AN EXEMPTION FROM SUCH REGISTRATION IS AVAILABLE.
1933 ACT"
THIS TRUST CERTIFICATE IS NOT PERMITTED TO BE ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, HYPOTHECATED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED OR DISPOSED OF EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT AND DECLARATION OF TRUST REFERRED TO HEREIN.
Certificate No. __
Ownership Interest: _______%
Issue Date: ___________
     The UNDERSIGNED, acting in its capacity as the Registrar of KCCP Trust, a Delaware statutory trust (the ""), hereby certifies that [ ] is the owner of the Ownership Interest in the Trust set forth above. This Trust Certificate is issued pursuant to and is entitled to the benefits of the Trust's Agreement and Declaration of Trust, dated as of December 18, 2003 (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the ""), and each Holder by acceptance hereof shall be bound by the terms of the Trust Agreement. Reference is hereby made to the Trust Agreement for a statement of the rights and obligations of the Holder hereof. The Registrar may treat the person shown on the certificate register maintained by the Registrar pursuant to Section 3(e) of the Trust Agreement as the absolute Holder hereof for all purposes.
Trust
Trust Agreement
     Capitalized terms used herein without definition have the meanings ascribed to them in the Trust Agreement.
     Transfer of this Trust Certificate is subject to certain restrictions and limitations set forth in the Trust Agreement. In the manner more fully set forth in, and as limited by, the Trust Agreement, this Trust Certificate may only be transferred upon the books of the Registrar by the registered Holder upon surrender of this Trust Certificate to
 
 
the Registrar accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder.
     In addition, any transferee of this Trust Certificate shall execute and deliver to the Registrar a letter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Registrar, agreeing to be bound by the terms of the Trust Agreement. The Registrar may request a written opinion of counsel in form and substance satisfactory to the Registrar to the effect that the proposed transfer of this Trust Certificate may be effected without registration under any state or Federal securities laws.
     The Holder hereof, by its acceptance of this Trust Certificate, warrants, represents and covenants to the Registrar and to the Holders of the other Trust Certificates issued under the Trust Agreement, if any, that it will not, and agrees not to, transfer this Trust Certificate except in accordance with the Trust Agreement, including, without limitation, the restrictions on transferability set forth in Section 3.3(e) of the Trust Agreement.
     This Certificate and the Trust Agreement shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware (excluding choice of law rules thereof).
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Registrar, pursuant to the Trust Agreement, has caused this Trust Certificate to be issued as of the date set forth above.

 
Exhibit 10.7
     
 
 
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A  Form of Certificate of Limited Partnership
 
SCHEDULES
Schedule 1 Schedule 2 Schedule 6.4(b)  Designated Programming Services Schedule 8.4(c)  Asset Pool Prioritization
 TCI Systems
 TWE-A/N Systems
 
2
          This Limited Partnership Agreement of Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"), is made as of this 23rd day of June, 1998, by and between Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership ("TWE-A/N"), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner, a Delaware limited liability company ("TWE-A/N GP"), TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company ("TCI"), and TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation ("TCI GP").
          The parties wish to form a limited partnership pursuant to the Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act of the State of Delaware, as amended from time to time (the "Act"), by filing a certificate of limited partnership as provided in the Act and entering into this Agreement.
          The parties hereby constitute themselves a limited partnership for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement (as defined below).
          The Partnership (as defined below), TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP have entered into that certain Contribution Agreement dated as of the date hereof (the "Contribution Agreement"), pursuant to which, among other things, the Partners (as defined below) have agreed to contribute and transfer to the Partnership, and the Partnership has agreed to accept and receive from the Partners, as initial capital contributions to the Partnership, substantially all of the assets and properties owned by the Partners and used or useful in the operation of the cable television systems serving the areas described in the Contribution Agreement.
          In consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          1.1 . As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
          : At Home Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
@Home
 
3
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
@Home Distribution Agreement
          : As defined in the @Home Distribution Agreement.
@Home Service
          : With respect to any Partner, such Partner's Capital Account balance, increased by such Partner's share of Partnership Minimum Gain and Partner Minimum Gain.
Adjusted Capital Account
          : Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership, and its successors and assigns.
Advance/Newhouse
          : With respect to any Person, any other Person Controlling, Controlled by or under common Control with such Person; provided, however, that, none of UMG, Advance/Newhouse or any of their Parents or Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of TWE-A/N.
Affiliate
          : This Limited Partnership Agreement, as amended from time to time.
Agreement
          : Any Type B Retained Franchise held for the benefit of the Partnership pursuant to Section 7.25.2 of the Contribution.
Beneficial Assets
          : With respect to (i) TCI and TCI GP, any of TCI Communications or TCI Communications' Subsidiaries, and (ii) TWE-A/N or TWE-A/N GP, TWC.
Cable Affiliates
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
Closing
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
Closing Date
          : With respect to any TWX Securities on any day, the last reported sale price of a unit of such TWX Securities (regular way) on such day as shown on the NYSE Composite Transaction Tape, or in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of a unit of such TWX Securities on such day on the NYSE, or, if such TWX Securities are not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, on the principal national securities exchange on which such TWX Securities are listed or admitted to trading, or, if they are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of such TWX Securities on such day as reported by NASDAQ, or if such TWX Securities are not so reported, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of a unit of such TWX Securities on such day as furnished by any member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. selected from time to time by TWX for that purpose; provided that in each case, the Closing Price shall be equitably adjusted to take into account any recapitalizations, reclassifications, mergers, consolidations, spin-offs, extraordinary dividends or distributions, subdivisions or combinations or the like affecting the TWX Securities.
Closing Price
 
4
          : The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor statute or statutes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
          : The United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index for the United States City Average (All Urban Consumers, All Items) (1982-1984=100), as in effect from time to time. If the Consumer Price Index shall be discontinued, there shall be substituted for the Consumer Price Index a reasonably reliable and comparable index or other information furnished by the United States government or independent third party source, in either case as selected by the General Manager.
Consumer Price Index
          : The ownership, directly or indirectly, of voting securities representing the right generally to elect a majority of the directors (or similar officials) of a Person or the possession, by contract or otherwise, of the authority to direct the management and policies of a Person.
Control
          : Any Partner, any Affiliate of a Partner, and any officer, director, shareholder, partner, member, employee or agent of a Partner or any Affiliate thereof, and any officer, employee or authorized agent of the Partnership.
Covered Person
          : With respect to any fiscal year, an amount equal to the depreciation, amortization or other cost recovery deduction allowable with respect to an asset for Federal income tax purposes, except that if the Gross Asset Value of the asset differs from its adjusted tax basis, Depreciation shall be determined in accordance with the methods used for federal income tax purposes and shall equal the amount that bears the same ratio to the Gross Asset Value of such asset as the depreciation, amortization or other cost recovery deduction computed for federal income tax purposes with respect to such asset bears to the adjusted federal income tax basis of such asset in accordance with Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(g) of the Treasury Regulations; provided, however, that if any such asset that is depreciable or amortizable has an adjusted federal income tax basis of zero, the rate of Depreciation shall be as determined by the General Partners.
Depreciation
          : American Movie Classics, American Sports Classics (or its successors), Animal Planet, Bravo, Discovery Channel, DMX, ESPN, Fox News, fX, Fox Sports SW, Home and Garden, Home Shopping Network, Home Team Sports, MSNBC, Romance Classics, Showtime (primary feed only), The Box, The Learning Channel, The Movie Channel (primary feed only) and WEB TV. Notwithstanding the foregoing, American Sports Classics (or its successors) will not be included in the definition of "Designated Programming Services" with respect to any TCI System if TCI or any Affiliate of TCI receives a termination agreement or release with respect to such service or if such service is not available for carriage on such TCI System at the Closing.
Designated Programing Services
          : "Designated Market Area," as described in the Code of Federal Regulations at 47 C.F.R.  76.55(e).
DMA
 
5
          : For any year, the percentage determined by the tax matters partner to be a reasonable estimate of the highest marginal combined Federal, state and local income tax rate (giving effect to the deduction of state and local income taxes, as applicable, for Federal and state income tax purposes) that would be applicable to the Partnership if it were a stand-alone corporation.
Effective Tax Rate
          : As defined in Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act as in effect on the date hereof, and in any event includes any limited partnership interest, any limited liability company interest and any other interest or security having the attendant right to vote for directors or similar representatives.
Equity Security
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
Excess Capacity Leases
          : Those Internet Services which would constitute a Restricted Business (as defined in the @Home Distribution Agreement) to the extent engaged in or distributed by TCI Communications, Inc. or its Controlled Affiliates (as defined in the @Home Distribution Agreement) over their cable plant and equipment.
Exclusive Internet Services
          : As to any property, the price at which a willing seller would sell and a willing buyer would buy such property in an arm's-length transaction without time constraints, in light of factors including but not limited to prices paid for comparable properties, cash flow, book value, earnings, and prospects for future earnings and cash flow. Any determination of Fair Market Value hereunder (except for any determination made pursuant to Section 7.4(a) or 8.4(c)) shall be agreed by the General Partners, provided that if the General Partners shall not be able so to agree, such determination shall be conclusively established by independent appraisal in the manner contemplated by Section 8.3(c).
Fair Market Value
          : Any of the following: (i) a decision, judgment, decree or other order of a court of original jurisdiction which has become final (i.e., the time for filing an appeal shall have expired), (ii) a closing agreement made under Section 7121 of the Code or any other settlement agreement entered into in connection with an administrative or judicial proceeding, provided, however, that any refund claim shall be deemed approved without regard to any required approval of the Joint Committee on Taxation, (iii) the expiration of the time for instituting a claim for refund, or if a claim was filed, the expiration of the time for instituting suit with respect thereto, or (iv) in any case where judicial review shall be unavailable, a decision, judgment, decree or other order of an administrative official or agency which has become final.
Final Determination
          : TWE-A/N GP, TCI GP and any other Person hereafter admitted as a general partner of the Partnership in accordance with the terms hereof, but excluding any Person that ceases to be a Partner in accordance with the terms hereof.
General Partner
          : With respect to any asset, the asset's adjusted basis for federal income tax purposes, except that (i) the Gross Asset Value of any asset contributed to the Partnership (including any Beneficial Assets and assets exchanged for
Gross Asset Value
 
6
any asset contributed to the Partnership) shall be its gross Fair Market Value (as determined by the General Partners) at the time such asset is contributed or deemed contributed (or the asset for which such asset is exchanged is contributed or deemed contributed) for purposes of computing Capital Accounts (which, in the case of the assets contributed pursuant to the Contribution Agreement, shall be consistent with the TCI Value and TWE-A/N Value, as the case may be, set forth in Section 3.1.1 of the Contribution Agreement), (ii) upon a contribution of money or other property to the Partnership by a new or existing Partner as consideration for an Interest in the Partnership and upon a distribution of money or other property to a retiring or continuing Partner as consideration for an Interest in the Partnership, the Gross Asset Value of all of the assets of the Partnership shall be adjusted to equal their respective gross Fair Market Values except no adjustment shall be made in connection with a Type A Closing (as defined in the Contribution Agreement), (iii) the Gross Asset Value of any asset (including any Beneficial Asset) distributed in kind to any Partner shall be the gross Fair Market Value of such asset on the date of such distribution, and (iv) the Gross Asset Value of any asset (including any Beneficial Assets) determined pursuant to clauses (i) or (ii) above shall thereafter be adjusted from time to time by the Depreciation taken into account with respect to such asset for purposes of determining Net Profit or Net Loss.
          : The entire ownership interest of a Partner in the Partnership at any time, including the rights of such Partner to Partnership capital, income, loss, distributions and other benefits to which such Partner may be entitled hereunder, and the obligations of such Partner to comply with the applicable terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Interest
          : A network which: (a) can or does (i) assign IP addresses or manage IP address assignments for machines or networks to which it is connected, (ii) accept or deliver IP datagrams from machines or networks to which it is connected, or (iii) maintain IP packet traffic to other machines or networks; and (b) provides IP connectivity on a regional, national or international basis; , , that such a network which provides connectivity solely within a single metropolitan area shall not be deemed as Internet Backbone.
Internet Backbone
provided
however
          : A communications service provided over an Internet Backbone.
Internet Backbone Service
          : A communications service provided over a network which can or does (a) assign IP addresses or manage IP address assignments for machines or networks to which it is connected, (b) accept or deliver IP datagrams from machines or networks to which it is connected, or (c) maintain IP packet traffic to other machines or networks.
Internet Service
          : The Internet Protocols as defined by the document titled , edited by Jon Postell of the University of Southern California, dated 1981, or subsequent revisions thereof.
IP
RFC-791
 
7
          : TWE-A/N and TCI and any other Person hereafter admitted as a limited partner of the Partnership in accordance with the terms hereof, but excluding any Person that ceases to be a Partner in accordance with the terms hereof.
Limited Partner
          : The Management Agreement between the Partnership and TWC, in the form of Exhibit 9.4.2 of the Management Agreement and to be entered into at the Closing pursuant to Section 9.4.2 of the Contribution Agreement, and pursuant to which the Partnership shall engage TWC to provide management and other services to the Partnership.
Management Agreement
           or : With respect to any fiscal year or other period, the taxable income or loss of the Partnership as determined for federal income tax purposes, with the following adjustments:
Net Profit
Net Loss
                    (i) Such taxable income or loss shall be increased by the amount, if any, of tax-exempt income received or accrued by the Partnership;
                    (ii) Such taxable income or loss shall be reduced by the amount, if any, of all expenditures of the Partnership described in Section 705(a)(2)(B) of the Code, including expenditures treated as described therein under  1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i) of the Treasury Regulations;
                 (iii) If the Gross Asset Value of any asset is adjusted pursuant to clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition of Gross Asset Value, the amount of such adjustment shall be taken into account, immediately prior to the event giving rise to such adjustment, as gain or loss from the disposition of such asset for purposes of computing Net Profit or Net Loss;
                 (iv) Gain or loss resulting from any disposition of any asset with respect to which gain or loss is recognized for federal income tax purposes shall be computed by reference to the Gross Asset Value of the asset disposed of, notwithstanding that such Gross Asset Value differs from the adjusted tax basis of such asset; and
                    (v) In lieu of the depreciation, amortization, or other cost recovery deductions taken into account in computing such taxable income or loss, there shall be taken into account Depreciation for such fiscal year.
          : As defined in  1.704-2(b)(1) of the Treasury Regulations. The amount of Nonrecourse Deductions for any year equals the excess, if any, of the net increase in the amount of Partnership Minimum Gain during such year over the aggregate amount of any distributions during such year of proceeds of a Nonrecourse Liability that are allocable to an increase in Partnership Minimum Gain, determined in accordance with  1.704-2(c) of the Treasury Regulations.
Nonrecourse Deductions
          : As defined in  1.704-2(b)(3) of the Treasury Regulations.
Nonrecourse Liability
 
8
          : New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE
          : With respect to any Person, any other Person that Controls such Person directly or indirectly through any Subsidiary of such other Person or owns directly or indirectly through any Subsidiary of such other Person more than 50% of the outstanding common stock or outstanding Equity Securities ordinarily entitled to vote of such Person.
Parent
          : Any of the General Partners and the Limited Partners.
Partner
          : "Partner nonrecourse debt minimum gain," as defined in  1.704-2(i)(2) of the Treasury Regulations, and shall be determined in accordance with  1.704-2(i)(3) of the Treasury Regulations.
Partner Minimum Gain
          : "Partner nonrecourse debt," as defined in  1.704-2(b)(4) of the Treasury Regulations.
Partner Nonrecourse Debt
          : "Partner nonrecourse deductions," as defined in  1.704-2(i)(1) of the Treasury Regulations, and shall be determined in accordance with  1.704-2(i)(2) of the Treasury Regulations.
Partner Nonrecourse Deductions
          : From the date hereof through December 31, 1999, the "Area of Dominant Influence," and effective January 1, 2000, the "Designated Market Area," in each case as described in the Code of Federal Regulations at 47 C.F.R.  76.55(e) and as set forth in the table below:
Partnership ADI/DMA
          : "Partnership minimum gain," as defined in  1.704-2(b)(2) of the Treasury Regulations, and shall be determined in accordance with  1.704-2(d) of the Treasury Regulations.
Partnership Minimum Gain
 
9
          : The percentage interest of a Partner in the Partnership set forth in Section 3.1.
Percentage Interest
          : Any individual, corporation, general or limited partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association, unincorporated entity of any kind, or a government or any department or agency thereof.
Person
          : (i) TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP or any subsequent Permitted Transferees of their Interests, on the one hand, and (ii) TCI and TCI GP or any subsequent Permitted Transferees of their Interests, on the other hand.
Related Partners
          : The Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
          : The primary credit agreement between the Partnership and its principal institutional lender or lenders (other than a Partner or an Affiliate of a Partner) providing for debt financing which is expressly nonrecourse to the Partners.
Senior Credit Agreement
          : All obligations of the Partnership under the Senior Credit Agreement.
Senior Debt
          : ServiceCo LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (or its successor, if any), which is the Person that operates the internet services and content aggregation business conducted as of the date hereof under the name "Road Runner."
ServiceCo
          : The Parents Agreement dated as of January 31, 1996 between an Affiliate of TCI and Sprint Corporation.
Sprint Agreement
          : With respect to any Person, any other Person Controlled by such Person directly or indirectly through any other Subsidiary of such Person.
Subsidiary
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
TCI Assets
          : TCI Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
TCI Communications
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
TCI Indebtedness
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
TCINS
          : The cable television systems contributed to the Partnership by TCI or TCI GP and serving the areas listed on Schedule 1.
TCI Systems
          : Any transfer, sale, assignment, pledge, lease, hypothecation, mortgage, gift or creation of security interest, lien or trust (voting or otherwise) or other encumbrance or other disposition of any Interest. "Transferor" and "Transferee" have correlative meanings and, in addition, shall mean any Person who, in the case of a
Transfer
 
10
Transferor, issues Equity Securities of a Partner or a Parent of a Partner and, in the case of a Transferee, acquires Equity Securities so issued.
          : The Income Tax Regulations, including Temporary Regulations, promulgated under the Code, as such regulations may be amended from time to time (including corresponding provisions of succeeding regulations).
Treasury Regulations
          : Time Warner Cable, a division of TWE.
TWC
          : Time Warner Entertainment Company, a Delaware limited partnership.
TWE
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
TWE-A/N Assets
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
TWE-A/N Indebtedness
          : The cable television systems contributed to the Partnership by TWE-A/N or TWE-A/N GP and serving the areas listed on Schedule 2.
TWE-A/N Systems
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
Type A Closing Date
          : As defined in the Contribution Agreement.
Type B Closing Date
          : With respect to any Partner, the Parent of such Partner that is not a Subsidiary of any other Person. Initially, the Ultimate Parent of TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP is Time Warner Inc., a Delaware corporation, and the Ultimate Parent of TCI and TCI GP is Tele-Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Ultimate Parent
          : MediaOne Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its successors and assigns (including any successor to or assignee of all of its cable business).
UMG
          1.2 . The following terms have the meanings set forth in the sections indicated in the table below:
Cross-References
 
11
 
12
          1.3 . The definitions in Article I shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed to be references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement unless the context shall otherwise require. All Exhibits and Schedules attached hereto shall be deemed incorporated herein as if set forth in full herein and, unless otherwise defined therein, all terms used in any Exhibit or Schedule shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in this Agreement. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein.
Usage Generally
          2.1 . The Partners hereby agree to form the Partnership as a limited partnership under and pursuant to the provisions of the Act. The Partners hereby agree that the Partnership shall be governed by, and the rights, duties and liabilities of the Partners shall be as provided in, the Act and this Agreement.
Formation
          2.2 . The name of the Partnership shall be "Texas Cable Partners, L.P." or such other name as the Partners may determine. Upon compliance with applicable laws, the Partnership will do business under any assumed or fictitious name legally available for use by the Partnership as may be designated by the General Manager, provided that the Partnership's use of any such name that is similar to the trade name used by any Partner or any Affiliate of any Partner may be used only with the prior written consent of such Partner or Affiliate. The Partnership shall file any assumed name certificates and similar filings, and any amendments thereto, that the General Manager considers appropriate or advisable.
Name
          2.3 . The purposes of the Partnership shall be:
Purpose
               (a) to acquire, develop, own, finance, invest in, maintain, operate, expand, sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of cable television systems serving
 
13
areas located in the Texas and New Mexico counties included in the Partnership ADI/DMA (the "Systems");
               (b) to acquire, develop, own, finance, invest in, maintain, operate, manage, expand, sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of businesses related to the operation of the Systems or to services that are offered substantially through the Systems, including without limitation programming and information services, internet access services (subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.4), digital services, and cable advertising;
               (c) to acquire, develop, own, finance, invest in, maintain, operate, manage, expand, sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of residential and business telephony services associated with the Systems (including alternative access services, wireless telephone services, personal communications services and other similar services) and other businesses that utilize broadband distribution facilities, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.5;
               (d) to conduct other businesses as contemplated by the then-effective Annual Budget or as otherwise agreed to by the Management Committee;
               (e) to engage in such other activities as the Management Committee shall deem necessary or desirable, subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement and the Act; and
               (f) to engage in all activities and transactions which are necessary, convenient, desirable, or incidental to the foregoing (including incurring indebtedness for money borrowed and related or similar credit obligations), subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement.
Except as otherwise limited by this Agreement or applicable law, the Partnership shall have the power and authority to do any and all acts as shall be necessary, appropriate, proper, advisable, convenient or incidental to or for the furtherance of the purposes of the Partnership.
          2.4 . The Partnership's principal place of business, at which, except as otherwise provided in or permitted by the Management Agreement, the records of the Partnership shall be maintained, shall be at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902 but the Partnership may from time to time have another or additional places of business within or without the State of Texas as may be designated by the Management Committee or the General Manager.
Principal Office
          2.5 . This Agreement shall become effective upon (i) the filing of the certificate of limited partnership of the Partnership in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and (ii) the execution of this Agreement by the Partners. The Partnership shall continue in existence until it is dissolved and its affairs wound up, or until it is terminated, in accordance with this Agreement.
Effective Date; Term
 
14
          2.6 . The address of the Partnership's registered office in Delaware shall be c/o Corporation Service Company, 1013 Centre Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19805.
Registered Office
          2.7 . The name and address of the registered agent of the Partnership for service of process on the Partnership in the State of Delaware initially is Corporation Service Company, 1013 Centre Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19805. The General Manager may at any time and from time to time designate another registered agent.
Registered Agent
          2.8 . The Partners promptly shall cause the execution and delivery of such documents and the performance of such acts consistent with the terms of this Agreement as may be necessary to comply with the requirements of law for the formation, qualification and operation of a limited partnership under the laws of each jurisdiction in which the Partnership shall conduct business. All expenses of such filings shall be borne by the Partnership.
Filings
          3.1 . The respective Percentage Interests of the Partners in the Partnership shall be as set forth below:
Percentage Interests
A Partner's Interest shall for all purposes be personal property. Except as expressly provided herein, no Partner shall have any interest in specific Partnership property.
          3.2 Capital Contributions.
               (a) In accordance with the terms of the Contribution Agreement, on the Closing Date, the Type A Closing Date or any Type B Closing Date:
              (i) TWE-A/N shall contribute to the Partnership the TWE-A/N Assets (or cash in lieu thereof to the extent provided by Section 7.25 of the Contribution Agreement) subject to the TWE-A/N Indebtedness, and TCI shall contribute to the Partnership the TCI Assets (or cash in lieu thereof to the extent provided by Section 7.25 of the Contribution Agreement) subject to the TCI Indebtedness; and
              (ii) TWE-A/N GP and TCI GP shall contribute to the Partnership cash equal to 1% of the TWE-A/N Adjusted Value and the TCI Adjusted Value, respectively, each as preliminarily determined pursuant to the Contribution Agreement.
 
15
               (b) Upon finalization of the calculation of the TWE-A/N Final Adjusted Value and the TCI Final Adjusted Value in accordance with the terms of the Contribution Agreement:
                 (i) either (A) TCI LP shall contribute to the Partnership cash equal to the amount by which the TWE-A/N Final Adjusted Value exceeds the TCI Final Adjusted Value, or (B) TWE-A/N LP shall contribute to the Partnership cash equal to the amount by which the TCI Final Adjusted Value exceeds the TWE-A/N Final Adjusted Value, in either case as required by Section 3.3.3 of the Contribution Agreement; and
                 (ii) either (A) TWE-A/N GP shall contribute additional cash to the Partnership in the amount by which 1% of the TWE-A/N Final Adjusted Value exceeds 1% of the TWE-A/N Adjusted Value, and TCI GP shall contribute additional cash to the Partnership in the amount by which 1% of the TCI Final Adjusted Value exceeds 1% of the TCI Adjusted Value, or (B) the Partnership shall distribute to TWE-A/N GP cash in the amount by which 1% of the TWE-A/N Adjusted Value exceeds 1% of the TWE-A/N Final Adjusted Value, and the Partnership shall distribute to TCI GP cash in the amount by which 1% of the TCI Adjusted Value exceeds 1% of the TCI Final Adjusted Value.
               (c) No Partner shall be required to make additional contributions to the capital of the Partnership unless approved by the Management Committee in accordance with Section 4.5(k).
               (d) To the maximum extent possible, borrowings from third parties in accordance with Section 3.7, rather than calls for additional capital contributions shall be utilized to meet the capital requirements of the Partnership.
               (e) No expense incurred or service performed by any Partner prior to its admission to the Partnership shall be considered to be a contribution or loan to or made on behalf of the Partnership, unless the Partners shall otherwise agree.
          3.3 . A separate capital account (a "Capital Account") shall be maintained for each Partner. Each Partner's Capital Account shall be credited with (a) the amount of such Partner's capital contribution made in cash, (b) the Fair Market Value (net of liabilities assumed or taken subject to) of all property contributed by such Partner (treating any Beneficial Assets as if they had been contributed on the Closing Date and disregarding any subsequent actual contribution of such Beneficial Assets and any cash flow related thereto or cash contribution in lieu thereof pursuant to Section 7.25.2(d) of the Contribution Agreement), and (c) such Partner's allocated share of Net Profit of the Partnership. Each Partner's Capital Account shall be reduced by the amount of any cash distributions to such Partner and the Fair Market Value (net of liabilities assumed or taken subject to) of all property distributed in kind to such Partner (taking into account any deemed distribution of Beneficial Assets) and such Partner's allocated share of Net Loss of the Partnership. The Partners agree that the respective Fair Market Values of (net of liabilities assumed or taken subject to) all
Capital Accounts
 
16
assets contributed to the Partnership (or in the case of Beneficial Assets deemed contributed) by TCI and TWE-A/N are equal, and, accordingly, each such Partner shall receive equal Capital Account credit for such contributions.
          3.4 . (a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this Section 3.4, Net Profit and Net Loss of the Partnership for any fiscal year shall be allocated for purposes of the Capital Accounts among the Partners in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests.
Allocations of Profit and Loss
               (b) Notwithstanding Section 3.4(a):
                (i) If any fees that the Partnership pays to a Partner or an Affiliate and deducts under Section 707 of the Code are disallowed as deductions for federal income tax purposes and treated instead as Partnership distributions, such Partner shall be specially allocated items of income equal to the amount of such fees, and the remaining Net Profit or Net Loss shall be allocated pursuant to Section 3.4(a) and the other provisions of this Section 3.4(b); and
                (ii) If any interest payment that the Partnership makes and deducts in respect of its debt is disallowed as a deduction for federal income tax purposes and treated instead as a Partnership distribution to a Partner, such Partner shall be specially allocated items of income equal to the amount of such interest payment, and the remaining Net Profit or Net Loss shall be allocated pursuant to Section 3.4(a) and the other provisions of this Section 3.4(b).
                (iii) Nonrecourse deductions shall be allocated in the same manner as Net Losses are allocated pursuant to Section 3.4(a). Partner Nonrecourse Deductions shall be allocated in accordance with the  704(b) Treasury Regulations to those Partners bearing (or who, because of their relationship to one or more Persons who bear such economic risk of loss, are deemed to bear) the economic risk of loss for the liability. The allocation of liabilities to a property, the amounts of Nonrecourse Deductions and Partner Nonrecourse Deductions, the effect of property revaluations and all other issues affecting the allocations of Nonrecourse Deductions and Partner Nonrecourse Deductions will be determined in accordance with the  704(b) Treasury Regulations.
               (c) Notwithstanding the general rule on allocations of Net Profit stated in Section 3.4(a), if there is a net decrease in Partnership Minimum Gain for any fiscal year of the Partnership, each Partner will be allocated items of income and gain for such fiscal year equal to such Partner's share of the net decrease in Partnership Minimum Gain. If there is a net decrease in Partner Minimum Gain for any fiscal year, each Partner having a share of such Partner Minimum Gain will be allocated items of income and gain equal to such Partner's share of such net decrease in Partner Minimum Gain. The determination of net decreases in Partnership Minimum Gain and Partner Minimum Gain, allocations of such net decreases, exceptions to minimum gain
 
17
chargebacks and all other issues affecting the allocation of minimum chargeback requirements will be determined in accordance with the  704(b) Treasury Regulations.
               (d) Notwithstanding the general rule on allocations of Net Profit and Net Loss stated in Section 3.4(a), no Limited Partner shall be allocated in any fiscal year of the Partnership any Net Loss to the extent such allocation would cause or increase a deficit balance in such Partner's Adjusted Capital Account, taking into account all other allocations to be made for such year pursuant to this Section 3.4 and the reasonably expected adjustments, allocations and distributions described in  1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) of the Treasury Regulations. Any such Net Loss that would be so allocated to such Limited Partner shall instead be allocated to the General Partners in proportion to their Percentage Interests. Moreover, if a Limited Partner unexpectedly receives an adjustment, allocation or distribution described in  1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) of the Treasury Regulations which creates or increases a deficit balance in such Partner's Adjusted Capital Account (computed after all other allocations to be made for such year pursuant to this Section 3.4 have been tentatively made as if this Section 3.4(d) were not in this Agreement), the Limited Partner shall be allocated items of income and gain in an amount equal to such deficit balance. This Section 3.4(d) is intended to comply with the qualified income offset requirement of  1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) of the Treasury Regulations and shall be interpreted consistently therewith.
               (e) Notwithstanding the general rule on allocations of Net Profit and Net Loss stated in Section 3.4(a), the allocations set forth in Sections 3.4(b)(iii), 3.4(c) and 3.4(d) (the "Regulatory Allocations") shall be taken into account in allocating items of income, gain, deduction and loss among the Partners so that, to the extent possible, the net amount of such other items and the Regulatory Allocations to each Partner shall be equal to the net amount that would have been allocated to each such Partner if the Regulatory Allocations had not occurred.
               (f) The following allocation rules shall apply for income tax purposes:
                (i) Except as otherwise provided herein, all items of Partnership income, gain, deduction and loss shall be allocated among the Partners in the same proportion as they share in the Net Profit and Net Loss to which such items relate;
                (ii) Any credits against income tax shall be allocated in accordance with the Partners' Percentage Interests;
                (iii) Income, gain, loss or deductions of the Partnership shall be allocated among the Partners in accordance with Section 704(c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, so as to take account of any difference between the adjusted basis of the assets of the Partnership and their respective Gross Asset Values in accordance with the traditional method set forth in  1.704-3(b) of the Treasury Regulations;
 
18
                (iv) Any recapture of depreciation or amortization shall be allocated among the Partners in accordance with the principles set forth in  1.1245-1(e) of the Treasury Regulations; and
                (v) If any investment credit is recaptured for tax purposes, such investment credit recapture shall be allocated (A) among the Partners in the proportion that the investment credit being recaptured was allocated or (B) if the investment credit being recaptured was taken as a credit by a Partner with respect to contributed property prior to the contribution thereof to the Partnership, to such Partner.
          3.5 .
Distributions
               (a) Except as provided in Section 3.2(b)(ii), no Partner shall have the right to withdraw any amount from its Capital Account, or to receive any distribution, without the approval of the Management Committee. Except as otherwise provided in Articles VII and VIII, no Partner shall have the right to demand or receive a distribution of property other than cash from the Partnership.
               (b) Subject to the restrictions of the Senior Credit Agreement and any other contractual restrictions (including any restriction contained in any promissory note or other instrument evidencing a loan from a Partner to the Partnership) to which the Partnership is subject, the Management Committee may, from time to time, distribute cash to the Partners in amounts that it determines are in excess of the amounts reasonably necessary for the continued efficient operation of the business of the Partnership. Any such distributions shall be made in accordance with the Partners' Percentage Interests at the time of the distribution. The Partnership shall repay principal and accrued interest on subordinated loans made by the Partners to the Partnership prior to making any cash distributions to the Partners.
               (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, but subject to the restrictions of the Senior Credit Agreement and any other contractual restrictions (including any restriction contained in any promissory note or other instrument evidencing a loan from a Partner to the Partnership) to which the Partnership is subject, the Partnership shall, not later than sixty days after the end of each fiscal year, make annual distributions to the Partners to pay income tax liabilities related to the taxable income of the Partnership's operations. The aggregate amount of each such annual distribution shall be determined by the General Manager based on its reasonable estimate of the total income tax liability of the Partnership (the "Estimated Tax Amount") that would arise based on the Effective Tax Rate if the Partnership were a taxpaying entity. Each Partner's share of the Estimated Tax Amount for a fiscal year shall equal the Estimated Tax Amount for such fiscal year multiplied by such Partner's Percentage Interest as of the last day of such fiscal year. The General Manager shall provide to each Partner at the time of distribution of the Estimated Tax Amount a schedule showing the calculation of the Estimated Tax Amount including the Effective Tax Rate used by the General Manager in determining such Estimated Tax Amount.
 
19
          3.6 . The Partnership shall (and the Partners shall not, except as Partners of the Partnership) report, for Federal income tax purposes, the income, gain, deduction and loss with respect to the Beneficial Assets. In the event that, pursuant to a Final Determination, the Partnership is treated as not the beneficial owner of any of the Beneficial Assets prior to the actual contribution of such Beneficial Assets to the Partnership, to the extent necessary, appropriate adjustments shall be made to the distributions provided for in Section 3.5 so as to place the Partnership and the Partners in the same positions they would have been in had the Partnership's lack of beneficial ownership of such Beneficial Assets been taken into account originally.
Beneficial Assets
          3.7 . To refinance certain indebtedness assumed by the Partnership in connection with the transfer and contribution of assets and properties pursuant to the Contribution Agreement and to finance the working capital needs of the Partnership, the Partnership shall enter into the Senior Credit Agreement. The terms of the Senior Credit Agreement and any renewal, extension, modification or refinancing of the Senior Credit Agreement shall require the unanimous approval of the General Partners. Each Partner agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to furnish such certificates, resolutions, legal opinions or other documents as may be reasonably required from time to time to enable the Partnership to borrow funds under the Senior Credit Agreement. The Partnership shall, immediately after the Closing and on the same day that Closing occurs, discharge in full all of the TWE-A/N Indebtedness and all of the TCI Indebtedness.
Partnership Debt
          4.1 .
Power of Partners
               (a) The Partners shall have the power to exercise any and all rights or powers granted to the Partners pursuant to the express terms of this Agreement. Except as otherwise specifically provided by this Agreement or required by the Act, no Partner shall have the power to act for or on behalf of, or to bind, any other Partner or the Partnership. Each Partner agrees to indemnify and hold each other Partner harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, costs, damages, losses, liabilities, joint and several, expenses of any nature (including reasonable attorneys', accountants' and experts' fees and disbursements), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts (collectively, "Damages") incurred by or against such other Partner and arising out of or resulting from any action taken by the indemnifying Partner in violation of the immediately preceding sentence.
               (b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the management and control of the Partnership's business shall be vested in the General Partners and shall be exercised by the General Partners through the Management Committee as provided herein. The Limited Partners shall not exercise any management or control of the Partnership's business except to the extent provided herein, and shall not be liable for any
 
20
debts, liabilities or obligations of the Partnership or any of the losses thereof except to the extent otherwise required by law.
          4.2 . There is hereby established a management committee (the "Management Committee") of six members to have and exercise final authority with respect to the affairs of the Partnership specified in this Agreement. The initial membership of the Management Committee shall be designated by the General Partners on or prior to the date hereof, and shall consist of three members designated by TWE-A/N GP and three members designated by TCI GP. Each General Partner may, at any time, remove its representative(s). Upon such removal, or the death or resignation of a member of the Management Committee, a successor shall be designated by the General Partner that appointed the Management Committee member being replaced. Each member of the Management Committee shall be entitled to cast one vote on all matters submitted for Management Committee approval.
Management Committee
          4.3 . A Chairman of the Management Committee shall be appointed from among the members of the Management Committee. The initial Chairman shall be designated by TWE-A/N GP and shall serve until December 31, 1999. Thereafter each Chairman shall serve a term of one year and TCI GP, on the one hand, and TWE-A/N GP, on the other hand, shall have the right, each alternating with the other, to appoint the Chairman to serve during successive one-year terms. The Chairman shall conduct the meetings of the Management Committee, shall provide a secretary to the Management Committee and shall oversee the preparation and circulation of notices, if required, agendas and minutes.
Chairman of the Management Committee
          4.4 Meetings of the Management Committee.
               (a) The initial meeting of the Management Committee shall take place at such time and place as the Partners shall agree. The Management Committee may establish meeting dates and requisite notice requirements, adopt rules of procedure it deems consistent herewith, and meet by means of telephone, conference telephone or similar communications equipment by which all members may be heard by all other members participating in such meeting.
               (b) Other meetings of the Management Committee shall be held at such times as the Management Committee members shall from time to time determine or at the request of any Management Committee member.
               (c) Unless otherwise determined by the Management Committee, written notice shall be given to each Management Committee member for each meeting of the Management Committee, which notice shall state the place, date and time of such meeting. Notice of each such meeting shall be given to each Management Committee member not later than three days before the day on which such meeting is to be held. A written waiver of notice, signed by the Management Committee member entitled to notice, whether before or after the time of the meeting referred to in such waiver, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of any meeting of the Management Committee need be specified in any
 
21
written waiver of notice thereof. Attendance of a Management Committee member at a meeting of the Management Committee shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except as provided by law.
               (d) The General Partners or Management Committee may hold meetings at the Partnership's principal place of business or such other place as the General Partners or Management Committee members may mutually agree.
               (e) The presence at any meeting of one member designated hereunder by TCI GP and one member designated by TWE-A/N GP shall constitute a quorum for the taking of any action. Any General Partner may appoint a proxy to act on his behalf and to vote in his stead at any meeting.
               (f) Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Management Committee must be by unanimous written consent of all members or by the unanimous vote of all Management Committee members present at a meeting, in person or by proxy, at which a quorum exists.
               (g) Minutes of each meeting of the Management Committee shall be prepared and circulated to the Management Committee members. Upon their adoption by the Management Committee, minutes shall be filed in the principal office of the Partnership. Written consents to any action taken by the Management Committee without a meeting shall also be filed with the minutes.
               (h) A designee of the General Manager shall attend the meetings of the Management Committee unless otherwise requested by the Management Committee and shall provide such reports with respect to the Systems and the business of the Partnership as may be requested by the Management Committee.
          4.5 . Except as contemplated in the then-effective Annual Budget, the Partnership shall not, and the General Partners shall not permit the Partnership to, take any of the following actions without first obtaining the consent of the Management Committee in accordance with Section 4.4(f):
Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee
               (a) subject to the limitations set forth in Section 4.5(b), enter into any transaction or series of related transactions involving the sale, pledge or encumbrance of any assets of the Partnership having a book value of in excess of $10,000,000, or in exchange for consideration in excess of $10,000,000;
               (b) enter into any transaction involving the sale, exchange, transfer or other disposition of any of the TCI Assets or TWE-A/N Assets other than sales, exchanges, transfers or other dispositions which (i) when added to all other sales, exchanges, transfers or other dispositions of TCI Assets, would not cause the aggregate Gross Asset Value of all TCI Assets sold, exchanged, transferred or otherwise disposed of to exceed $1,500,000, (ii) when added to all other sales, exchanges, transfers or other dispositions of TWE-A/N Assets, would not cause the aggregate Gross Asset Value of all
 
22
TWE-A/N Assets sold, exchanged, transferred or otherwise disposed of to exceed $1,500,000, or (iii) occur pursuant to Articles VII and VIII; provided that the consent of the Management Committee members designated by TWE-A/N GP shall not be required pursuant to this clause (b) to sell, exchange, transfer or otherwise dispose of any TCI Assets and the consent of the Management Committee members designated by TCI GP shall not be required pursuant to this clause (b) to sell, exchange, transfer or otherwise dispose any of the TWE-A/N Assets;
               (c) make distributions of cash or other property to the Partners, except as provided in Section 3.5 and Articles VII and VIII;
               (d) enter into any material transaction or agreement, or any material amendment to any such material agreement, between the Partnership and a Partner or an Affiliate of a Partner, except (i) any such transaction or agreement entered into in the ordinary course of business and on an arm's-length basis or (ii) as contemplated by this Agreement, the Management Agreement or the Contribution Agreement;
               (e) enter into any transaction involving the borrowing of funds or the incurrence of debt (including the issuance of debt securities) by the Partnership, except as necessary to operate the Partnership in the ordinary course of business in accordance with the then-effective Annual Budget;
               (f) adopt any proposed annual budget or modify or materially deviate from the then-effective Annual Budget (it being understood that (i) for fiscal 1999 and fiscal 2000, the making of capital expenditures and operating expenditures not exceeding 110% of the amount budgeted therefor in the then-effective Annual Budget shall not be considered a material deviation from such Annual Budget for purposes of this Section 4.5(f); and (ii) for each fiscal year thereafter, the making of capital expenditures and operating expenditures not exceeding 110% and 105%, respectively, of the amount budgeted therefor in the then-effective Annual Budget shall not be considered a material deviation from such Annual Budget for purposes of this Section 4.5(f));
               (g) adopt or change a significant tax or accounting practice or principle of the Partnership;
               (h) enter into any transaction of merger, consolidation, amalgamation, or other form of business combination, conversion, or liquidation, winding-up or dissolution of the Partnership;
               (i) admit new Partners, except pursuant to the terms of Article VII;
               (j) enter into any transaction or series of related transactions involving the acquisition of assets, property or equity interests for consideration in excess of $25,000,000 for each transaction or series of related transactions;
 
23
               (k) require that the Partners make additional capital contributions;
               (l) make any fundamental change in the business of the Partnership described in Section 2.3;
               (m) enter into any programming agreement or similar agreement with any Affiliate of a Partner, except as contemplated by the Contribution Agreement or any agreement for the carriage of programming services of Affiliates of the General Manager to the extent provided for in or permitted by the Management Agreement;
               (n) redeem any Interest (or portion thereof) of any Partner;
               (o) remove or replace the General Manager of the Partnership, except as set forth in Sections 7.1 and 7.2(d);
               (p) commence or settle any material litigation against unaffiliated third parties; it being understood, for example, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Partners that are not Affiliates of the General Manager to commence and settle litigation on behalf of the Partnership, but at their own cost and expense, against the General Manager for any breach by the General Manager of its obligations under the Management Agreement (provided that such Persons shall be entitled to reimbursement of such costs and expenses, and shall be obligated to reimburse the costs and expenses of the General Manager in connection therewith, in each case to the same extent that the Partnership would have been so entitled or obligated under the terms of the Management Agreement had the Partnership brought such an action on its own behalf);
               (q) enter into any amendment to the Management Agreement; and
               (r) enter into, conduct, engage in or participate in the business of providing or engaging in any Internet Backbone Service over the TCI Systems or obtain or acquire any record or beneficial equity interest in any Person which conducts, engages in or participates in any Internet Backbone Service.
          4.6 . The Partners hereby ratify, approve and adopt, as of the Closing, the Management Agreement, and agree to designate, as of the Closing, TWC as general manager of the Partnership ("General Manager"), with responsibility, during the term of the Management Agreement, for the day-to-day management and operation of the Systems and such other activities of the Partnership as may be provided for in the Management Agreement or delegated to the General Manager by the Management Committee. The General Manager shall be empowered to take all actions on behalf of the Partnership as it deems necessary or advisable in connection with the management and operation of the Systems without obtaining the prior approval of the Management Committee; provided that the General Manager shall act in full accordance with the terms of the Management Agreement and the decisions of the Management
General Manager
 
24
Committee pursuant to Section 4.5 and shall have no authority to take any action requiring Management Committee approval without first obtaining such approval. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Partners acknowledge and agree that the General Manager, on behalf of the Partnership, will have the exclusive right and power to make all decisions regarding the rebuild and upgrade of the Partnership's Systems up to 750 MHz (subject to Section 7.24 of the Contribution Agreement), the timing and implementation of digital services, the timing and implementation of internet access or other internet protocol-based services (subject to Section 6.4(a)), the ad sales business and the doing business name of the Partnership. Prior to the Closing, TWE-A/N GP and TCI GP, acting jointly, shall be responsible for, and shall undertake, all matters and actions that otherwise would be the responsibility of, and would be undertaken by, the General Manager as contemplated by this Agreement and the Management Agreement.
          4.7 . The General Manager shall have the authority to appoint such officers of the Partnership and employees of TWE-A/N furnished to the Partnership as it shall deem necessary or advisable. All such officers and employees shall have such authority and perform such duties as may be specified from time to time by the General Manager. The General Manager shall have the authority to establish all guidelines pertaining to the employment of officers of the Partnership and employees of TWE-A/N furnished to the Partnership, including guidelines pertaining to the term of office or employment, resignation, removal and compensation.
Officers and Employees
          4.8 . The Partnership shall reimburse each Partner for all direct, out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred after the formation of the Partnership by such Partner on behalf of and for the benefit of the Partnership; provided, however, that, except with respect to any reimbursement required pursuant to Section 6.9, such expenditure shall have been approved by the other Partners prior to incurrence and that no Partner shall be reimbursed for any of its overhead or general administrative expenses attributable to the operation of the Partnership nor shall salaries, fees, commissions or other compensation be paid by the Partnership to any Partner or to any Affiliate of any Partner for services rendered to the Partnership (other than the fees, reimbursable expenses or other amounts payable to the General Manager pursuant to the Management Agreement and fees, reimbursable expenses or other amounts payable to any Partner or any Affiliate of any Partner pursuant to any agreement entered into between the Partnership, or the General Manager on behalf of the Partnership, and such Partner or Affiliate of such Partner in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Management Agreement or the Contribution Agreement). Reimbursement under this Section 4.8 shall be made within thirty days after the Partnership's receipt of written notice from a Partner which has incurred a reimbursable cost or expense.
Partner's Services and Expenses
          4.9 . Pursuant to the Contribution Agreement the Partners will have agreed to the initial budget (the "Initial Budget") of the Partnership at or prior to Closing. No later than 60 days prior to the expiration of fiscal 1999 and each fiscal year thereafter, the General Manager shall propose an annual budget for the Partnership with respect to the next succeeding fiscal year (the Initial Budget and each
Annual Budget
 
25
such annual budget adopted thereafter by the Management Committee and in effect from time to time in accordance herewith, an "Annual Budget"), and shall submit the proposed Annual Budget to each member of the Management Committee for approval in accordance with Section 4.5. If approval of any proposed annual budget is withheld or delayed for any reason, the most recently adopted Annual Budget shall govern, adjusted for inflation, based on the change in the Consumer Price Index from the January of the fiscal year for which such Annual Budget was initially adopted to the January of the current fiscal year, based on a business-as-usual assumption, and taking into account salary and benefit increases granted in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and increases in capital expenditures and operating expenditures due to franchise and legal requirements, ongoing projects (including franchise and other contractual commitments and cost escalation provisions) and other matters determined by the General Manager in accordance with Section 3(c)(x) of the Management Agreement, until an Annual Budget for the current fiscal year is approved.
 
26
          5.1 .
Books and Records
               (a) The Management Committee shall keep or cause to be kept all necessary books and records of the Partnership's affairs, in which shall be entered the transactions of the Partnership. The Partnership's books shall be audited annually by a firm of independent certified public accountants selected from time to time by the General Manager. The costs of such audit shall be borne by the Partnership.
               (b) The books and records shall be maintained at the principal office of the Partnership or the General Manager, and shall be open to the inspection and examination of the Partnership or its representatives, including any member of the Management Committee, at any reasonable time. The books of account shall be kept on an accrual basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
          5.2 . The Partnership shall cause the General Manager to deliver, or cause to be delivered, to each Partner the following information and financial statements:
Financial Statements
               (a) Within twenty-one days after the close of each of the first three quarterly accounting periods in each fiscal year (i) a preliminary unaudited consolidated statement of Partners' equity, (ii) a preliminary unaudited consolidated income statement of the Partnership for such year to date period, (iii) a preliminary unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Partnership as of the end of such quarterly period, (iv) a preliminary unaudited consolidated statement of cash flows for such year to date period, all prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied by the Partnership, subject to year-end adjustments, and except for any inconsistencies explained in such statement and for the absence of footnotes, and (v) within thirty days thereafter, any material adjustments to the above referenced preliminary financial statements.
               (b) Within forty-five days after the close of each fiscal year (i) a preliminary unaudited consolidated statement of Partners' equity, (ii) a preliminary unaudited consolidated income statement of the Partnership for such fiscal year, (iii) a preliminary unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Partnership as of the end of such fiscal year, and (iv) a preliminary unaudited statement of cash flows of the Partnership for such fiscal year.
               (c) Within eighty days after the close of each fiscal year (i) a consolidated statement of Partners' equity of the Partnership for such fiscal year, (ii) a consolidated income statement of the Partnership for such fiscal year, (iii) a consolidated balance sheet of the Partnership as of the end of such fiscal year, and (iv) a consolidated statement of cash flows of the Partnership for such fiscal year, all prepared in accordance
 
27
with Regulation S-X and generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, except for any inconsistencies explained therein, and accompanied by a report thereon of the Partnership's independent accountants.
               (d) Within thirty days after the close of each calendar month (i) an unaudited consolidated income statement of the Partnership for such calendar month complete with year-to-date comparisons to budget and, commencing with the statement delivered with respect to the first full month following the first anniversary of the Closing, the corresponding period of the prior year, and (ii) an unaudited report of actual capital expenditures for the month and year-to-date, as compared to budgeted capital expenditures.
               (e) Within thirty days after the close of each calendar month a report setting forth for such calendar month and with respect to the CATV systems operated by the Partnership the following information: (i) the cumulative number of households having access to such Systems, (ii) the number of basic subscribers to such Systems, (iii) the number of subscribers to each pay television service, and (iv) the number of plant miles.
          5.3 . The Partnership shall maintain bank accounts in such banks or institutions as the General Manager from time to time shall select, and such accounts shall be drawn upon by check signed by such person or persons, and in such manner, as may be designated by the General Manager. All moneys of the Partnership shall be deposited in the bank account or accounts of the Partnership.
Bank Accounts
          5.4 Tax Returns and Information.
               (a) The "tax matters partner" (as such term is defined in Section 6231(a)(7) of the Code) of the Partnership shall be TWE-A/N GP. All elections by the Partnership for income and franchise tax purposes and all determinations regarding depreciation or amortization and all other matters relating to all tax returns (including amended returns) filed by the Partnership, including tax audits and related matters and controversies, shall be made and conducted by the tax matters partner. This provision shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
               (b) The General Manager shall prepare and timely file with the appropriate authorities all income and other required federal, state and local tax returns for the Partnership, and shall provide the Partners with copies of the income tax returns promptly after such filings are made. All other filings shall be made available to the Partners upon request.
               (c) The General Manager shall use reasonable efforts to submit a draft of any such tax return contemplated in Section 5.4(b) to each Partner for review and approval no later than the earlier of (i) 30 days prior to the required filing date (as such date may be extended) and (ii) June 30 of each year, unless otherwise agreed to by the Partners.
 
28
               (d) The General Manager shall provide to each Partner preliminary and estimated information concerning the Partnership's taxable income or loss and each class of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit which is relevant to reporting a Partner's share of Partnership income, gain, loss, deduction or credit for purposes of federal or state income tax. Such information shall be furnished to the Partners as soon as possible after the close of the Partnership's fiscal year and, in any event, no later than the earlier of (i) 135 days after the end of the fiscal year and (ii) the date on which the income tax return for such fiscal year is submitted to the Partners for review pursuant to Section 5.4(c).
          5.5 . The fiscal year of the Partnership shall end on the 31st day of December in each year. The Partnership shall have the same fiscal year for income tax purposes and for financial and accounting purposes.
Fiscal Year
          6.1 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.2, a Partner and any Affiliate thereof may engage in or possess an interest in other business ventures of any nature or description, independently or with others, similar or dissimilar to the business of the Partnership, and the Partnership and the other Partners shall have no rights by virtue of this Agreement in and to such independent ventures or the income or profits derived therefrom, and the pursuit of any such venture, even if competitive with the business of the Partnership, shall not be deemed wrongful or improper, and no Partner or Affiliate thereof shall be obligated to present any particular investment opportunity to the Partnership even if such opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Partnership, could be taken by the Partnership, and any Partner or Affiliate thereof shall have the right to take for its own account (individually or as a partner, shareholder, fiduciary or otherwise) or to recommend to others any such particular investment opportunity.
Other Businesses of the Partners
          6.2 .
Non-Competition
               (a) For so long as any Person is a Partner of the Partnership, and for one year thereafter, such Person shall not (and shall cause its Cable Affiliates not to) engage in (or seek to engage in) the business of acquiring, owning, financing, investing in, maintaining, operating or managing cable television systems, SMATV, MMDS, LMDS (and other similar systems) for the distribution of multi-channel video programming, other than direct broadcast satellite services to retail customers, in each case serving a municipality listed on Schedules 1 or 2 or the portion of a county listed on Schedules 1 or 2 that is served by the Partnership's Systems (other than the business of acting as General Manager) (the "Business") or acquire or invest in (or seek to acquire or invest in) any Person engaged in the Business other than through the Partnership or its Subsidiaries.
               (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing:
 
29
                    (i) the provisions of Section 6.2(a) shall terminate upon the termination of the Partnership due to an Event of Termination, provided that, in the event the Partnership is terminated as a result of any Event of Default, the provisions of Section 6.2(a) shall continue for one year after such date of termination with respect to the Partner, or Cable Affiliate thereof, whose act or failure to act resulted in such Event of Default;
                    (ii) any Partner (or Cable Affiliate thereof) may, without breaching the provisions of Section 6.2(a), own and invest in any securities of any Person whose common equity securities are registered pursuant to Sections 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that such Partner and its Cable Affiliates (A) do not Control such Person and (B) do not own, in the aggregate, more than 5% of the common equity securities of such Person;
provided
                    (iii) any Partner (or Cable Affiliate thereof) may, without breaching the provisions of Section 6.2(a), own, invest in or otherwise engage in any Business in which the Partnership is precluded from engaging (by rule, regulation, law, order, judgment, decree or contract) by virtue of the Partnership's affiliation with any of the other Partners (other than such Partner's Related Partner);
                    (iv) any Partner (or Cable Affiliate thereof) may, without breaching the provisions of Section 6.2(a), own any Beneficial Assets to the extent contemplated by the Contribution Agreement;
                    (v) in the event that any Person breaches the provisions of Section 6.2(a) by virtue of an investment in another Person that engages in the Business (a "Competing Business"), then, provided that the annual revenues derived from such Competing Business are less than 10% of the total revenues of the Person in which such investment is made, such breaching Person shall have a reasonable opportunity to cure such breach by disposing of the assets comprising the Competing Business or by transferring the Competing Business, or the economic benefits derived therefrom, to the Partnership;
                    (vi) no Partner (or Cable Affiliate thereof) shall be deemed to be in breach of the provisions of Section 6.2(a) by virtue of any action by a Person in which such Partner (or Cable Affiliate) has from time to time a non-Controlling investment; provided, that such Partner or its Cable Affiliate shall have used its reasonable best efforts (including through the exercise of any contractual or veto rights available to it or, in the case of future investments, the negotiation of appropriate restrictions) to prevent such Person from engaging in the Business;
                    (vii) if a Partner is required under Section 7.5(c) to continue to own a portion of its Interest in the Partnership, the provisions of Section 6.2(a) shall cease to apply to such Partner on the date that is one year
 
30
following the date of the earliest Transfer of any portion of such Partner's Interest (or the Interest of such Partner's Related Partner) pursuant to Section 7.5(c); and
                 (viii) TCINS may continue to provide service to the Brazosport Independent School District and Nederland Independent School District under the agreements between TCINS and such School Districts that are to be attached to the Excess Capacity Leases.
               (c) The parties agree that the restrictions applicable to TWC under this Section 6.2 shall, notwithstanding that TWC is a division of TWE, be binding solely upon TWC, TWC shall be deemed to be a "stand alone" legal entity for all purposes of this Section 6.2 and the restrictions under this Section 6.2 will not bind TWE, other than to the extent any business or assets of TWE are included within TWC for internal reporting purposes.
          6.3 . Each Person that at any time is or was a Partner agrees that it shall, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its Affiliates and its and their respective agents or representatives to, keep secret and hold in strictest confidence any and all confidential information relating to the business of the Partnership, the other Partners and such other Partners' Affiliates (including any confidential information that such Person may obtain with respect to the Cable Business and Systems (as such terms are defined in the Contribution Agreement) of the other Partners and their Affiliates by virtue of the transactions contemplated in the Contribution Agreement), other than the following:
Confidentiality
               (a) information that has become generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by such Person, its Affiliates or its agents;
               (b) information that becomes available to such Person or an agent or representative of such Person on a nonconfidential basis from a third party having no obligation of confidentiality to a party to this Agreement and which has not itself received such information directly or indirectly in breach of any such obligation of confidentiality;
               (c) information that is required to be disclosed by applicable law, judicial order or pursuant to any official request by any governmental or regulatory body or any listing agreement with, or the rules or regulations of, any securities exchange on which securities of such party or any such Affiliate are listed or traded or which is requested or required by any regulatory body, which asserts jurisdiction over such party; provided that the party making such disclosure or whose Affiliates or agents or representatives are making such disclosure shall notify the other parties and the Partnership as promptly as practicable (and, if possible, prior to making such disclosure) and shall use its reasonable best efforts to limit the scope of such disclosure and seek confidential treatment of the information to be disclosed;
               (d) reasonable disclosures made in good faith to a prospective Permitted Transferee in connection with a potential Permitted Transfer; provided that
 
31
prior to any such disclosure such prospective Permitted Transferee executes a confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Partnership;
               (e) reasonable disclosures made in good faith to direct and indirect equity holders of a Partner and to its and their respective lenders, accountants, attorneys and similar persons; provided that the disclosing Partner causes such equity holders, lenders, accountants, attorneys or similar persons to agree to be bound by the provisions of this Section 6.3;
               (f) reasonable disclosures made in good faith to @Home relating to the upgrade plans for the TCI Systems to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the coordination of the build out and launch of the @Home Service on the TCI Systems; and
               (g) reasonable disclosures made in good faith to ServiceCo relating to the upgrade plans for the TWE-A/N Systems to the extent reasonably necessary to permit the coordination of the build out and launch of ServiceCo's Internet Services on the TWE-A/N Systems.
          6.4 Internet Services; Designated Programming Services.
               (a) The Partners hereby agree that (i)(A) @Home will be the exclusive provider of the Exclusive Internet Services over the cable plant and equipment of the TCI Systems, and (B) the Partnership will not, and will not permit any Person (including, without limitation, the General Manager) other than @Home and its Controlled Affiliates (as defined in the @Home Distribution Agreement) to, provide or distribute Exclusive Internet Services using the cable plant and equipment of the TCI Systems, in each case without the prior written consent of TCI, and (ii) the terms and provisions relating to the Partnership's obligations with respect to the distribution of the @Home Service over the TCI Systems will be as set forth in the @Home Agreement. The Partners hereby agree that (i)(A) ServiceCo will be the exclusive provider of the Exclusive Internet Services over the cable plant and equipment of the TWE-A/N Systems, and (B) the Partnership will not, and will not permit any Person (including the General Manager) other than ServiceCo to, provide or distribute Exclusive Internet Services using the cable plant and equipment of the TWE-A/N Systems, in each case without the prior written consent of TWE-A/N, and (ii) the terms and provisions relating to the Partnership's obligations with respect to the distribution of the ServiceCo's Exclusive Internet Services over the TWE-A/N Systems will be set forth in an affiliation agreement to be entered into by the Partnership and ServiceCo. The General Manager shall give due and good faith consideration, based upon the best interests of the Partnership, to the use of either @Home or ServiceCo in connection with the provision of Internet Services offered through any other systems acquired by the Partnership. The Partnership will use its commercially reasonable efforts to offer the @Home Service through a TCI System within a period of time generally comparable to the period of time in which ServiceCo's services are offered through a TWE-A/N System, in each case after the bandwidth capacity and other technical features of such System have been upgraded to the technological standard necessary to offer such services through such System. If the
 
32
General Manager in good faith determines that it is in the best interests of the Partnership to distribute ServiceCo's services over those TCI Systems having service areas within the Houston, Texas ADI/DMA, then the General Manager may request that TCI permit ServiceCo to be the exclusive provider of such Internet Services over such TCI Systems in exchange for the @Home Service becoming the exclusive provider of Exclusive Internet Services in certain mutually agreed TWE-A/N Systems. If the Partners agree upon the terms and conditions of an arrangement to accomplish the foregoing, then subject to the terms of such agreement, such TCI Systems will become distributors of ServiceCo's services as if such Systems were TWE-A/N Systems, and such TWE-A/N Systems will become distributors of the @Home Service as if such Systems were TCI Systems, and thereafter the TWE-A/N Systems which become distributors of the @Home Service shall become subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 6.4(a) and the @Home Agreement.
               (b) To the extent not inconsistent with any applicable law, rule, regulation, order or judgment, (i) the Partnership shall continue to carry on each TCI System each Designated Programming Service that is being carried on such TCI System as of the Closing to the extent then being carried on such TCI System and (ii) as soon as practicable during the rebuild of each TCI System, as channel capacity becomes available, the Partnership shall carry on such TCI System the Designated Programming Services designated with an asterisk ("*") on Schedule 6.4(b), in each case until the earlier of the fifth anniversary of the Closing and the termination or expiration of the term (set forth on Schedule 6.4(b)) of the applicable affiliation agreement (each, a "Pre-existing Affiliation Agreement") and, with respect to WEB TV, subject to any carriage restrictions set forth in the Pre-existing Affiliation Agreement relating to WEB TV; provided, that if carrying any Designated Programming Service on any TCI System becomes impracticable, the General Manager may satisfy, to the extent permitted by the applicable affiliation agreement, the Partnership's obligation under this Section 6.4(b) with respect to such Designated Programming Service on such TCI System by substituting one or more other cable television systems managed by the General Manager serving at least as many subscribers as the TCI System with respect to which carriage of such Designated Programming Service shall have become impracticable, but only if the subscribers served by such substitute systems are treated as being served by TCI for purposes of determining whether TCI shall have fulfilled its obligation under the applicable Pre-Existing Affiliation Agreement.
          6.5 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement (and without prejudice to the Partnership's position that, for purposes of the Sprint Agreement, it is not an "Affiliate" of the Ultimate Parent of TCI) the Partners agree as follows:
Telephony Restrictions
               (a) Capitalized terms used in this Section 6.5 that appear within quotation marks shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Sprint Agreement as originally executed and without amendment or modification by the parties unless accepted in writing by each Partner other than TCI and TCI GP. When making the covenants set forth in this Section 6.5, the Partnership is expressly relying, among other provisions in the Sprint Agreement, on the statements set forth in the Sprint
 
33
Agreement that (i) "Local Telephony Services" shall not include "Advanced Data Services," the "Non-Exclusive Services," and the "Excluded Businesses," and (ii) "Excluded Business" means, among other things, the provision of entertainment and, except to the limited extent contemplated in the definition of "Non-Exclusive Services," other content-based services.
               (b) Prior to the earlier of (i) January 31, 1999, and (ii) such time as the Ultimate Parent of TCI is no longer bound by restrictive terms of the Sprint Agreement, the Partnership will not offer (or promote or package any of its products or services with or act as a sales agent for) any (A) "Long Distance Telephony Services" or "Local Telephony Services" under the "Brand" of an "RBOC" or an "IXC" or (B) "Non-Exclusive Services" under the "Brand" of an "IXC" or a "RBOC" packaged with "Local Telephony Services."
               (c) Prior to the earlier of (i) January 31, 1999, and (ii) such time as the Ultimate Parent of TCI is no longer bound by the restrictive terms of the Sprint Agreement, the Partnership will not make "Rights of Use" for "Local Telephony Services" available on its distribution facilities to a third party other than "Teleport" (including its successors pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger among AT&T Corp., TA Merger Corp. and Teleport Communications Group, Inc. dated as of January 8, 1998) without making the same facilities similarly available to Sprint Corporation in accordance with the terms of the Sprint Agreement; provided, however, the Partnership itself may offer "Local Telephony Services" and may make its distribution facilities available to any "Affiliate" of the Partnership that may offer "Local Telephony Services" (in each case, subject to the restrictions in the preceding paragraph) without in either case offering its distribution facilities to Sprint Corporation.
               (d) Prior to the earlier of (i) January 31, 1999, and (ii) such time as the Ultimate Parent of TCI is no longer bound by the restrictive terms of the Sprint Agreement, the Partnership will not make "Rights of Use" available on its distribution facilities to an "RBOC" or an "IXC" for the provision of "Advanced Data Services" without making the same facilities similarly available to Sprint Corporation in accordance with the terms of the Sprint Agreement.
               (e) The covenants of the Partnership in Sections 6.5(b), (c) and (d) shall not apply with respect to a "Bulk Purchaser" in circumstances where, in the reasonable judgment of the Partners, the Partnership needs to offer to a "Bulk Purchaser" of cable television services a package of services which include one or more "Local Telephony Services" and/or "Long Distance Telephony Services" in order to compete with an actual or anticipated offer to such "Bulk Purchaser" by a provider unaffiliated with the Ultimate Parent of TCI (whether facilities-based, as a reseller or agent or otherwise) of television/telephony services and the needed service is not then available to the Partnership from Sprint Corporation on competitive economic terms. The covenants of the Partnership to make its distribution facilities available to Sprint Corporation, as set forth in Section 6.5(c) and (d), shall not become applicable solely as a result of the provision of such services to the "Bulk Purchaser."
 
34
               (f) The Partnership's obligations under this Section 6.5 shall be subject to any contrary provisions of any agreements with Persons (other than the Ultimate Parent of TCI or a Controlled Affiliate of the Ultimate Parent of TCI) to which the TWE-A/N Systems are subject prior to the time such Systems were contributed by TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP or otherwise acquired by the Partnership.
          6.6 . To the extent reasonably practicable, the Partnership shall purchase new and unused materials for the rebuild of the TCI Systems from TCI or one or more Affiliates of TCI at purchase prices equivalent to the values carried on TCI's or such Affiliate's balance sheet; provided that (a) such prices and the other terms of purchase (including warranties) are no less favorable to the Partnership than those available to the Partnership from any vendor of such materials, (b) the materials are of the type the General Manager reasonably desires to utilize in the rebuild of the TCI Systems, and (c) such materials shall be of a quality that is equal to or greater than the quality of materials available from any vendor.
Excess Inventory
          6.7 . Each Partner shall use its reasonable best efforts to make available to the Partnership, and to the General Manager for the benefit of the Partnership, its buying power, without profit or commission, in connection with the acquisition, development, maintenance and operation of the assets and properties that comprise the Systems.
Partner Buying Power
          6.8 . Each Partner acknowledges that the TWE-A/N Systems are, and will continue to be, within the provisions of the Social Contract for Time Warner Cable entered into with the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") by TWE-A/N, TWE and TWI Cable Inc. (the "Social Contract"). The Partners further acknowledge and agree that, subject to Section 7.24 of the Contribution Agreement, the General Manager, on behalf of the Partnership, will have the exclusive right and power to make all decisions regarding all matters arising under or with respect to the Social Contract, including the decision to include one or more of the TCI Systems within the provisions of the Social Contract. If and when the General Manager decides that any of the TCI Systems should be added to the provisions of the Social Contract, the General Manager, on behalf of the Partnership, shall prepare and submit to the FCC a request seeking the required FCC approval and, concurrently with the grant of such FCC approval, shall provide a copy of the Social Contract to each local franchising authority representing a TCI System to be added to the provisions of the Social Contract. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Partnership is required to distribute to TCI or TCI GP one or more Systems that have been included within the provisions of the Social Contract, TCI or TCI GP shall have the right to elect not to have the provisions of the Social Contract continue to apply to any such System from and after the date of such distribution. If TCI or TCI GP irrevocably elects not to have the provisions of the Social Contract continue to apply to any such System, then (a) TWE-A/N, with the cooperation of the General Manager, shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take such steps as may be required of the General Manager to exclude such System from the Social Contract from and after such date of distribution, (b) as soon as reasonably practicable after such date of distribution, TCI and TCI GP (i) shall give each
Time Warner Social Contract
 
35
"Cable Programming Service Tier" subscriber of such System as of such date of distribution (the "CPST Subscribers") any refund (in the form of a prospective bill credit) that such CPST Subscriber may be eligible to receive pursuant to the Social Contract, (ii) shall reflect such prospective bill credit on a regular monthly billing statement by TCI or TCI GP and (iii) shall describe such bill credit as the refund required and calculated pursuant to the Social Contract, and (c) TWE-A/N shall reimburse TCI for one-half of the aggregate amount of any such refunds to the extent relating to the period of time through such date of distribution.
          6.9 .
Furnishing of Employees by TWE-A/N
               (a) TWE-A/N shall furnish to the Partnership the services of individuals (the "Personnel") to conduct the business of the Partnership, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Contribution Agreement and the Management Agreement. All Personnel shall be employees of TWE-A/N and not of the Partnership. The General Manager shall recruit, select, employ, promote, terminate, supervise, direct, train and assign the duties of all Personnel, and may change or replace any such individual at any time, in each case in its sole discretion.
               (b) The Partnership shall pay to TWE-A/N or its Affiliates, if appropriate, on a current basis (or, if applicable, not later than the 10th day following an Event of Termination), an aggregate amount equal to the sum of the items listed below:
                (i) the gross wages (including payroll taxes) of all Personnel providing services to the Partnership for the quarter;
                (ii) TWE-A/N's identifiable, indirect, administrative costs directly attributable to the Personnel providing services to the Partnership for the relevant period;
                (iii) the cost of workers' compensation insurance incurred by TWE-A/N with respect to the Personnel for the relevant period;
                (iv) an amount equal to TWE-A/N's expense for employee benefit plans on behalf of any Personnel, including pension, savings, medical, dental, vision, disability and life insurance made during the relevant period;
                (v) an amount equal to TWE-A/N's payments for other benefits, including fringe benefits, the employee assistance program, sick leave, adoption assistance and educational assistance;
                (vi) a reasonably allocated portion of TWE-A/N's overhead expense for Personnel and all other individuals providing direct support services (such as payroll, accounts payable and human resource functions) to the Partnership, including expenses related to payroll accounting and benefit management for the relevant period;
 
36
                (vii) all incremental identifiable, direct costs related to the plans or programs listed in Section 3(c)(xvi) of the Management Agreement, including incremental costs of charges or premiums, employee participation, or actuarial reports; and
                (viii) all other costs and expenses incurred by TWE-A/N or its Affiliates and attributable to the Personnel providing services to the Partnership.
               (c) Upon exercise by any member of the Personnel (each, an "Eligible Option Holder") of employee options to purchase securities of Time Warner Inc. or any of its Affiliates ("TWX Securities"), the Partnership shall pay to TWE-A/N for each share of stock or each $1,000 principal amount of debt securities, as the case may be (such share or $1,000 principal amount being referred to herein as a "unit" of TWX Securities), issuable upon exercise of such options an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Closing Price of a unit of such TWX Securities as of the date of exercise, over (ii) either (A) for options issued prior to the Closing Date, the greater of (1) the exercise price paid by such Eligible Option Holder for each such unit of TWX Securities and (2) the Closing Price of a unit of such TWX Securities on the Closing Date, or (B) for options issued after the Closing Date, the exercise price paid by such Eligible Option Holder for each such unit of TWX Securities.
               (d) All items in Section 6.9(b) and (c) relating to expenses associated with individuals who are employed by TWE-A/N or an Affiliate of TWE-A/N to provide less than full-time services to the Partnership will be pro-rated based on the relative amount of time spent by such individuals in performing the services provided to the Partnership on the one hand and the services provided to the other businesses of TWE-A/N or such Affiliate on the other hand.
               (e) The Partnership shall indemnify TWE-A/N, any Affiliate of TWE-A/N, and any officer, director, shareholder, partner, member, employee or agent of TWE-A/N or any Affiliate thereof, from and against any and all Damages arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (collectively, "Claims"), arising out of or otherwise related to TWE-A/N's employment of the Personnel and the furnishing of such Personnel to the Partnership pursuant to this Section 6.9.
               (f) TWE-A/N shall furnish to the Partnership the services of the Personnel pursuant to this Section 6.9 in its capacity as an independent contractor, and not in its capacity as a Limited Partner, of the Partnership. Accordingly, in furnishing the services of the Personnel to the Partnership pursuant to this Section 6.9, TWE-A/N shall in no way be deemed to be participating in the control of the business of the Partnership.
 
37
          7.1 . Except as otherwise permitted in this Article VII, without the express written consent of each Partner, no Partner shall Transfer, directly or indirectly, any Interest. A Partner shall be deemed to have "indirectly" Transferred its Interest upon the Transfer or issuance of Equity Securities of such Partner or any Parent of such Partner, unless immediately prior to such Transfer or issuance of Equity Securities (a) the Fair Market Value of such Partner's Interest constituted less than 50% of the Fair Market Value of the cable television systems owned, directly or indirectly, by the Person whose Equity Securities were Transferred or issued and (b) the Person whose Equity Securities were Transferred or issued owned, directly or indirectly, cable television systems serving at least one million subscribers (other than subscribers served by cable television systems owned by the Partnership). Any such Transfer or issuance shall be deemed to constitute a Transfer by such Partner in violation of this Agreement and shall be void , and the Partnership shall not recognize any such Transfer. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the rights of a Partner hereunder are personal to it and, other than pursuant to a Permitted Transfer in compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, no Partner shall (and each Partner shall cause its Affiliates not to) enter into any agreement, arrangement or understanding, written or oral, pursuant to which it shall Transfer, or otherwise grant to or provide any Person, directly or indirectly, with any of its rights or interests under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, as a result of the Transfer or issuance of Equity Securities of a Partner or Parent of a Partner who is the General Manager or an Affiliate of the General Manager that is deemed not to be an "indirect Transfer" according to the second sentence of this Section 7.1, the General Manager and its Affiliates own, in the aggregate, directly and indirectly, a Percentage Interest which is less than the Percentage Interest owned by the General Manager and its Affiliates, in the aggregate, directly and indirectly, immediately prior to such Transfer or issuance, (x) the General Partner which, immediately prior to such Transfer, was not an Affiliate of the General Manager, shall designate itself or another qualified Person to become, for all purposes under this Agreement and the Management Agreement, the General Manager of the Partnership in place of the Person who was acting as General Manager at the effective time of such Transfer or issuance, (y) the Related Partners which, immediately prior to such Transfer or issuance, were Affiliates of the General Manager shall succeed to all of the rights and obligations of the Related Partners who are not Affiliates of the General Manager with respect to the General Manager under this Agreement and the Management Agreement, and (z) the parties shall enter into appropriate transition arrangements to implement the foregoing as soon as reasonably practicable following such Transfer or issuance.
General Restrictions
ab
initio
          7.2 . Except as otherwise specified herein, the provisions of Section 7.1 shall not apply to the following Transfers (each of which shall be deemed to constitute a "Permitted Transfer", and each Transferee of a Permitted Transfer of Interests shall be referred to herein as a "Permitted Transferee"); provided that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, (i) no Partner may Transfer less than all of its Interest (other than as provided in Sections 7.2(b) or 7.5(c)) and (ii) no Partner may Transfer its Interest to any Person (other than as provided in Section 7.2(b)) without also causing to be Transferred to such Person (or an Affiliate of such Person) all
Permitted Transfers
 
38
of the Interests then owned by all of such Partner's Affiliates (including its Related Partner):
               (a) any Transfer of Interests in accordance with the provisions of Sections 7.3, 7.4 or 8.3(b);
               (b) any Transfer of Interests to an Affiliate of TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI or TCI GP, provided that prior to the occurrence of any event that will result in such Affiliate no longer being an Affiliate of the Ultimate Parent of TWE-A/N or TCI, or the Ultimate Parent of any Permitted Transferee pursuant to Sections 7.2(a), (c) or (d), as the case may be, such Affiliate shall Transfer its Interest to an Affiliate of such Ultimate Parent (it being understood that the proviso of this clause (b) shall not apply to and shall in no way be construed to prohibit any Transfer not deemed to be an "indirect Transfer" according to the second sentence of Section 7.1) ;
               (c) any Transfer of Interests or Equity Securities by a Partner or a Parent of a Partner, if such Transfer is in connection with the transfer to the Permitted Transferee of substantially all of the cable television systems owned, directly or indirectly, by the Ultimate Parent of such Partner; and
               (d) any Transfer of Interests by TWE-A/N or TWE-A/N GP or any Affiliate of either of them to Advance/Newhouse or UMG or wholly-owned Affiliate of either of them; provided that, upon the effective date of any Permitted Transfer of the Interests owned by TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP or any Affiliate of TWE-A/N or TWE-A/N GP pursuant to this Section 7.2(d), (i) TCI GP shall designate itself or another qualified Person to become the General Manager of the Partnership in place of TWC for all purposes under this Agreement and the Management Agreement, (ii) any Permitted Transferee pursuant to this Section 7.2(d) shall succeed to all of the rights and obligations of TCI GP and TCI as Partners that are not the General Manager or Affiliates of the General Manager with respect to the General Manager under this Agreement and the Management Agreement and (iii) the parties shall enter into appropriate transition arrangements to implement the foregoing as soon as reasonably practicable following such Transfer.
          7.3 Right of First Refusal.
            (a) (i) If a Partner shall receive a bona fide offer in writing (a "bona fide offer") from a third party or third parties which is or are not Permitted Transferee(s) (other than pursuant to Section 7.2(a)) of such Partner (collectively, a "Third Party Purchaser") to purchase all (but not less than all) of such Partner's and its Related Partner's Interests for cash and such Partner and its Related Partner (collectively, the "Selling Partners") shall propose to Transfer all of their Interests in accordance with such bona fide offer, then the Selling Partners shall, in the manner set forth in this Section 7.3, afford the other Partners (the "Offeree Partners") a right of first refusal to acquire all (but not less than all) of the Selling Partners' Interest at the price (in cash) and otherwise on the same terms offered to the Selling Partners by such Third Party Purchaser.
 
39
                (ii) Upon receipt of a bona fide offer from a Third Party Purchaser, the Selling Partners shall give notice to the Offeree Partners of their intention to sell all (but not less than all) of their Interests to such Third Party Purchaser (an "Offer Notice"), enclosing with such Offer Notice a complete and correct copy of the bona fide offer setting forth all the terms thereof, including the proposed purchase price.
                (iii) Upon receipt of the Offer Notice, the Offeree Partners shall have the right (but not the obligation) to purchase (or have one or more financially qualified designees purchase) all of the Selling Partners' Interests for the price (in cash), and otherwise upon the terms and conditions, contained in the bona fide offer. The right of the Offeree Partners shall be exercisable by written notice to the Selling Partners, with copies to the Partnership, given within sixty days after receipt of the Offer Notice (the "Notice Period"). Any such exercise of such first refusal rights shall constitute a binding agreement by the Offeree Partners to purchase (or have one or more financially qualified designees purchase) the Selling Partners' Interests on the terms set forth in the Offer Notice. Failure of the Offeree Partners to respond within the Notice Period shall be regarded as a waiver of their first refusal rights hereunder.
               (b) The closing of the purchase of the Selling Partners' Interests subscribed to by the Offeree Partner under clause (a) above shall be held at the principal office of the Partnership no later than the one hundred twentieth day after the date the Offer Notice was given or on such other date as agreed by the Selling Partners and the Offeree Partners, or their designees (as such date may be extended pursuant to Section 7.5(a)). The Offeree Partners shall deliver at the closing the payment required hereunder in cash. At such closing, all of the parties to the transaction shall execute such additional documents as are otherwise necessary or appropriate to effectuate the intent of the foregoing.
               (c) In the event that the Offeree Partners do not elect to purchase or have one or more financially qualified designees purchase all of the Selling Partners' Interests in accordance with Sections 7.3(a) and (b), then the Selling Partners may Transfer their Interests to the Third Party Purchaser; provided that such Transfer is made (i) in accordance with all provisions of this Article VII, (ii) at a price and upon other terms that are no more favorable to the Third Party Purchaser than the price and other terms set forth in the Offer Notice, and (iii) within one hundred eighty days after the expiration of the Notice Period.
               (d) The Selling Partners do not hereby waive any claims or remedies they may have in law or equity against the Offeree Partners in case the Offeree Partners elect to purchase (or to cause designees to purchase) and wrongfully fail so to purchase the Selling Partners' Interests.
               (e) No notice may be given under this Section 7.3 while any Buy-Sell Procedure or Dissolution Procedure is pending, or after an Event of Termination has occurred.
 
40
          7.4 .
Buy-Sell Procedure
               (a) Subject to Section 7.4(j), at any time after the fifth anniversary of the Closing, either set of Related Partners (the "Initiating Partners") may, at their option, elect to initiate the Buy-Sell Procedure set forth in this Section 7.4 (the "Buy-Sell Procedure"). In such event, the Initiating Partners shall notify the other Partners (the "Non-Initiating Partners") of their intention to initiate the Buy-Sell Procedure. Such notice (the "Buy-Sell Notice") shall include a statement by the Initiating Partners of their determination of the amount that equals the gross Fair Market Value of the Partnership's assets and properties less the Partnership's debts and liabilities (and related reserves) described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 8.2(c) (the "Stated Value").
               (b) Within ninety days after receipt of the Buy-Sell Notice, the Non-Initiating Partners shall elect one of the following three alternatives:
                (i) to purchase (or designate one or more financially qualified third parties to purchase) the Initiating Partners' Interests at the Buy-Sell Price (as defined below);
                (ii) to sell their Interests to the Initiating Partners (or one or more financially qualified designees of the Initiating Partners) at the Buy-Sell Price; or
                    (iii) to initiate a Dissolution Procedure in accordance with Section 8.4, if it is then after the seventh anniversary of the Closing.
In the case of clauses (i) and (ii) above, the "Buy-Sell Price" shall be equal to the amount each of the Transferring Partners (as defined below) would have received in respect of their Interests if the Partnership's assets and properties were sold for an amount equal to the Stated Value and the proceeds thereof were distributed to the Partners in accordance with Section 8.2(c)(iv) and (v). The failure of the Non-Initiating Partners to notify the Initiating Partners of their election pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 7.4(b) shall be deemed to be an election by the Non-Initiating Partners to sell their Interests. If the Non-Initiating Partners elect or are deemed to elect to sell their Interests pursuant to this Section 7.4(b), then such Non-Initiating Partners shall be referred to as the "Transferring Partners" and the Initiating Partners shall be referred to as the "Purchasing Partners." If the Non-Initiating Partners elect to purchase the Initiating Partners' Interests pursuant to this Section 7.4(b), then such Non-Initiating Partners shall be referred to as the "Purchasing Partners" and the Initiating Partners shall be referred to as the "Transferring Partners." If the Non-Initiating Partners shall have made the election described in clause (iii) of the first sentence of this Section 7.4(b), (1) such election shall be deemed to be a Dissolution Notice given in accordance with Section 8.4(a), (2) the Non-Initiating Partners shall be deemed to be the "Dividing Partners" and the Initiating Partners shall be deemed to be the "Selecting Partners," and (3) the Partners shall otherwise proceed in accordance with Sections 8.4(c)-(f).
 
41
               (c) If the Buy-Sell Procedure was initiated prior to or on the seventh anniversary of the Closing and the Non-Initiating Partners made either of the elections described in clauses (i) or (ii) of the first sentence of Section 7.4(b), the Transferring Partners shall proceed in accordance with the provisions of Sections 7.4(d), (e), (f) or (g). If the Buy-Sell Procedure was initiated after the seventh anniversary of the Closing and the Non-Initiating Partners made either of the elections described in clauses (i) or (ii) of the first sentence of this Section 7.4(b), then:
                (i) the Transferring Partners shall not be entitled to make any of the elections provided in Sections 7.4(d), (e) or (f); and
                (ii) the Partners shall take all action reasonably necessary to consummate the sale of the Transferring Partners' Interests to the Purchasing Partners (or their qualified designees) in accordance with the provisions of Sections 7.4(g), (h) and (i).
               (d) Following the election described in clauses (i) or (ii) of the first sentence of Section 7.4(b) or the deemed election described in Section 7.4(b), at the election of the Transferring Partners, or following the election described in Section 7.4(e)(1), the Partners shall negotiate in good faith to reach agreement on a tax efficient transaction structure for the sale by the Transferring Partners to the Purchasing Partners of their Interests, including the form and value of the consideration to be paid as well as appropriate adjustments to the Buy-Sell Price to the extent such an adjustment is appropriate to reflect the tax efficient nature of such transaction. Transaction structures to be discussed by the Partners may include a tax-deferred share exchange, stock-for-stock merger or similar transaction involving the capital stock of the Transferring Partners or the publicly traded capital stock of an upstream Affiliate of the Transferring Partners and the publicly traded capital stock of the Purchasing Partners or of an upstream Affiliate of the Purchasing Partners; provided that (i) any capital stock to be issued in connection with any such transaction shall be available for issuance without shareholder action or registration under the Securities Act; (ii) all third party and partner, member and stockholder consents required to be obtained in connection with such transaction shall be obtained; (iii) the terms and conditions of such transaction shall be otherwise usual and customary; (iv) the holding of the capital stock of the Purchasing Partners or its upstream Affiliate by the Transferring Partners shall be legally permissible; and (v) a mutually acceptable registration rights agreement shall be negotiated.
               (e) If the Partners do not reach agreement with respect to the terms of a tax efficient transaction structure within sixty days following the election or deemed election described in Section 7.4(b) or the election described in clause (1) of the next sentence of this Section 7.4(e), then
                    (i) the Transferring Partners may exercise the termination right provided in Section 7.4(f), if such right is then exercisable;
 
42
                (ii) the Transferring Partners may elect to sell their Interests to the Purchasing Partners pursuant to Section 7.4(g); or
                (iii) if the Transferring Partners were the Non-Initiating Partners, such Non-Initiating Partners may elect to change their elections made pursuant to Section 7.4(b) by electing to purchase from the Initiating Partners the Initiating Partners' Interests in accordance with the provisions of the next sentence.
If the Non-Initiating Partners make the election provided for in clause (iii) of the preceding sentence, the Initiating Partner shall have the right to elect:
                (1) to cause the Partners to negotiate in good faith to reach a tax efficient transaction structure pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.4(d);
                    (2) to exercise the termination right provided in Section 7.4(f), if such right is then exercisable; or
                    (3) to sell to the Non-Initiating Partners their Interests pursuant to Section 7.4(g).
If the Non-Initiating Partners make the election provided for in clause (iii) of the first sentence of this Section 7.4(e), the Initiating Partners shall be referred to as the "Transferring Partners" and the Non-Initiating Partners shall be referred to as the "Purchasing Partners" for the purposes of determining the Buy-Sell Price pursuant to Section 7.4(b) and for purposes of Sections 7.4(d), (e), (f), (g) and (h), as applicable. The failure by the Transferring Partners to make an election under this Section 7.4(e) within thirty days of the date such Partners are first entitled to make an election hereunder shall be deemed to be an election consummate the sale of their Interests pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.4(g).
               (f) The Transferring Partners may elect to terminate the Buy-Sell Procedure by giving notice to the Purchasing Partners at any time prior to the time that the Transferring Partners become obligated to sell their Interests to the Purchasing Partners pursuant to Section 7.4(g); provided that this right shall be available to the Transferring Partners only during the first Buy-Sell Procedure invoked, regardless of which set of Related Partners are the Initiating Partners with respect to such Buy-Sell Procedure.
               (g) If any of the following shall have occurred:
                    (i) the Buy-Sell Procedure was initiated prior to or on the seventh anniversary of the Closing and (A) the Transferring Partners elect, or are deemed under the final sentence of Section 7.4(e) to have elected, to sell their Interests in accordance with this Section 7.4(g), or (B) the Transferring Partners otherwise so elect at any time following the election or deemed election described in Section 7.4(b) or the election described in Section 7.4(e)(iii);
 
43
                (ii) the Buy-Sell Procedure was initiated after the seventh anniversary of the Closing and the Non-Initiating Partners made either of the elections described in clauses (i) or (ii) of the first sentence of Section 7.4(b); or
                (iii) the Selecting Partners shall have made the election provided for in clause (ii) of Section 8.4(d) in accordance with the terms thereof,
then the Partners shall take all action reasonably necessary to consummate the sale of the Transferring Partners' Interests to the Purchasing Partners (or their qualified designees) at a purchase price payable in cash equal to the Buy-Sell Price.
               (h) Upon reaching an agreement concerning the structure and other terms by which the Purchasing Partners or their designees shall purchase the Interests of the Transferring Partners (the "Buy-Sell Transaction"), the business and affairs of the Partnership shall continue to be conducted in the ordinary course as provided in this Agreement, unaffected by the pendency of the Buy-Sell Transaction.
               (i) The closing of a Buy-Sell Transaction pursuant to this Section 7.4 shall be held at a mutually acceptable place on a mutually acceptable date not more than ninety days after the date that the structure and terms of the Buy-Sell Transaction are agreed to pursuant to this Section 7.4 (subject to extension pursuant to Section 7.5(a)). At such closing, the Purchasing Partners (or their qualified designees) shall acquire, directly or indirectly, as the case may be, the Transferring Partner's Interests, free and clear of all liens, claims and encumbrances, against payment of the purchase price therefor, and the Partners shall execute such documents as may be necessary to effectuate the sale. Unless otherwise agreed by the Purchasing Partners and the Transferring Partners, the purchase price shall be payable by wire transfer of funds or by certified or cashier's check drawn to the order of the Transferring Partners, as specified by the Transferring Partners; provided, however, that the parties may agree that all or any portion of the purchase price shall be payable in the first month after the close of the taxable year in which the transfer occurs. The Purchasing Partners shall assume the obligations of the Transferring Partners under this Agreement, and the Transferring Partners shall be released therefrom, except for those obligations or liabilities of the Transferring Partners arising out of a breach of this Agreement.
               (j) No Buy-Sell Notice may be given while any Offer Notice is pending, or after an Event of Termination has occurred.
          7.5 . In the case of any Transfer under Sections 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4 or 8.3(b) of this Agreement:
Additional Provisions Relating to Transfer
               (a) The time period within which the Transfer of Related Partner Interests must be consummated shall be automatically extended until the tenth day following the receipt of all governmental approvals which may be required in connection with the Transfer, if applications for such approvals have been made within such prescribed periods.
 
44
               (b) In connection with the Transfer of Interests, the Transferors will be obligated to sell to the Transferees, and the Transferees will be obligated to buy from the Transferors, a pro rata portion of all evidences of indebtedness of the Partnership held directly or indirectly by the Transferors for an amount, payable in cash, equal to the outstanding principal amount of such pro rata portion at the time of transfer plus interest on such pro rata portion then accrued and unpaid. The Transferees shall further be required to pay a pro rata portion of any and all filing and recording fees, fees of counsel and accountants and other costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the Partnership as a result of such Transfers.
               (c) Unless otherwise agreed by the non-Transferring Partner, no Transfer of an Interest pursuant to Sections 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4 or 8.3(b) shall be made except upon terms which would not, in the opinion of counsel chosen by and mutually acceptable to the Partners, result in the termination of the Partnership within the meaning of Section 708 of the Code. If the immediate Transfer of the offered Interest would, in the opinion of such counsel, cause such a termination, then if, in the opinion of such counsel, the following action would not precipitate such termination, the Transferor Partner shall be required (i) to immediately Transfer only that portion of its Interest (which may consist of all of the Transferor Partner's Interest other than a portion of the Transferor Partner's capital interest in the Partnership) as may, in the opinion of counsel to the Partnership, be Transferred without causing such a termination, and (ii) to enter into an agreement to Transfer the remainder of its Interest, in one or more Transfers, at the earliest date or dates on which such Transfer or Transfers may be effected without causing such termination; provided, that during the period that such Transferor Partner continues to own a portion of its Interest pending its sale to the Transferee of the other portion of such Interest, such Transferor Partner and such Transferee shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as one Partner. The purchase price for the Interest shall be allocated between the immediate Transfer and the deferred Transfer or Transfers pro rata on the basis of the percentage of the aggregate Interest being Transferred, each portion to be payable when the respective Transfer is consummated, unless otherwise agreed by the parties to the Transfer. In determining whether a particular proposed Transfer will result in a termination of the Partnership, counsel to the Partnership (i) shall take into account the existence of prior written commitments to Transfer made pursuant to this Section 7.5(c) and such commitments shall always be given precedence over subsequent proposed Transfers and (ii) shall take into account the Transfer by the Transferor Partner's Related Partner.
          7.6 . In addition to all other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, prior to any Permitted Transfer of Interests pursuant to Section 7.2, (a) each Transferor shall, other than with respect to Permitted Transfers pursuant to Section 7.2(a), provide to the Partnership and each other Partner, (i) at least ten days' prior notice of such Transfer, (ii) a certificate of such Transferor, delivered with such notice, containing a statement as to the provision(s) of Section 7.2 under which such Transfer is permissible, together with such information as is reasonably necessary for each recipient of such notice to determine whether such Transfer is permitted thereby, and (iii) such other information and documents as may be reasonably requested by each recipient of such notice in order for it to make such determination and
Conditions to Transfers
 
45
(b) the Permitted Transferee of such Interest shall execute and deliver to the other Partners an agreement by which it shall become a party to and be bound by the obligations, and enjoy the benefits, under the terms and provisions of this Agreement as if it were a Partner as of the closing date of such Transfer.
          7.7 . Upon consummation of any Permitted Transfer of an Interest in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (a) the Permitted Transferee shall be admitted as a Partner (if not already a Partner) and for purposes of this Agreement such Permitted Transferee shall be deemed a Partner, (b) the Transferred Interest shall continue to be subject to all the provisions of this Agreement, and (c) the Permitted Transferee shall succeed to the Transferor's Capital Account balance at the close of business on the effective date of such Permitted Transfer. No Permitted Transfer shall relieve the Transferor of any of its obligations or liabilities under this Agreement arising prior to the closing of the consummation of such Permitted Transfer, and the Transferor shall continue to remain liable for the performance of any obligations arising under this Agreement of any Affiliate to which it Transfers its Interest pursuant to Section 7.2(b).
Effect of Permitted Transfer
          7.8 . In the event of a Transfer of any Interest, all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit for the fiscal year in which the transfer occurs shall be allocated for federal income tax purposes between the transferor and the transferee on the basis of the ownership of the Interest at the time the particular item shall have accrued. Distributions made on or after the effective date of transfer shall be made to the Permitted Transferee, regardless of when such distributions accrued on the books of the Partnership.
Tax Allocation Adjustments; Distributions After Transfer
          7.9 . No new Partners shall be admitted to the Partnership except with the approval of the Management Committee in accordance with Article IV or in accordance with Transfer provisions contained in this Article VII. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, no Partner shall have the right to withdraw from the Partnership. A Partner withdrawing in violation of this Agreement shall not be entitled to receive any distribution and shall not otherwise be entitled to receive the fair value of its Interest except as expressly provided in this Agreement. Upon the withdrawal of a General Partner in violation of this Agreement, the sole remaining General Partner, if any, shall have the right, exercisable by giving notice to the remaining Partners within ninety days of the date such electing General Partner receives notice of the other General Partner's withdrawal, to continue the Partnership, in which case the Partnership shall not be dissolved nor shall its affairs be wound up.
Admission; Withdrawal of Partners
          8.1 . The Partnership shall be dissolved and its affairs wound up pursuant to Section 8.2 or 8.4 (in the case of clause (d) below) upon the first to occur of any of the following events (an "Event of Termination"):
Events of Termination
 
46
               (a) the termination of the Contribution Agreement pursuant to Section 10.1 thereof;
               (b) the unanimous written consent of the Partners to dissolution;
               (c) the sale of substantially all the assets of the Partnership;
               (d) the initiation of the Dissolution Procedure by any Partner pursuant to Section 8.4;
               (e) the occurrence of an Event of Default; provided, however, in addition to the rights specified in Section 8.3(b), the non-defaulting Partners shall have the right, exercisable by giving notice to the other Partners within ninety days of the date such non-defaulting Partners receive notice of such Event of Default, to continue the Partnership, in which case the Partnership shall not be dissolved nor shall its affairs be wound up.
               (f) the Partnership files a petition in bankruptcy, petitions or applies to any tribunal for the appointment of a custodian, receiver or any trustee for it or a substantial part of its assets, commences any proceeding under any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, readjustment of debt, dissolution or liquidation law or statute of any jurisdiction, or suffers the filing of any such petition or application, or the commencement of any such proceeding, against it in which an order for relief is entered or which remains undismissed for a period of sixty days; or
               (g) the entry of a decree of judicial dissolution under  17-802 of the Act.
          8.2 . Upon the occurrence of an Event of Termination (other than pursuant to Section 8.1(d)) and the failure of the Partner(s) to continue the Partnership as provided herein, the Partnership affairs shall be wound up as follows:
Winding-Up
               (a) The Management Committee shall cause to be prepared a statement of the assets and liabilities of the Partnership as of the date of dissolution.
               (b) The assets and properties of the Partnership shall be liquidated as promptly as possible, and receivables collected, all in an orderly and businesslike manner so as not to involve undue sacrifice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Management Committee may determine not to sell all or any portion of the assets and properties of the Partnership, in which event such assets and properties shall be distributed in kind pursuant to Section 8.2(c).
               (c) The proceeds of liquidation under Section 8.2(b) and all other assets and properties of the Partnership shall be applied and distributed as follows in the following order of priority:
 
47
                    (i) to the payment of the debts and liabilities of the Partnership, excluding any amounts which may be owed to any Partner, and the expenses of liquidation;
                    (ii) to establishing any reserves that the Management Committee, in accordance with sound business judgment, deems reasonably necessary for any contingent or unforeseen liabilities or obligations of the Partnership, which reserves may be paid over by the Management Committee to an escrow agent selected by it to be held by such agent for the purpose of (A) distributing such reserves in payment of the aforementioned contingencies and (B) upon the expiration of such period as the Management Committee may deem advisable, distributing the balance thereof in the manner provided in this Section 8.2(c);
                    (iii) to the payment of all amounts owed to any Partner other than loans or on account of their Capital Accounts, and then to loans to the Partnership made by Partners in proportion to each Partner's Percentage Interest, provided that if the aggregate amount of each Partner's outstanding loans, including accrued interest, shall not be in the same proportion to the total of all outstanding loans of Partners as each Partner's Percentage Interest, then payments hereunder shall be first applied to reduce the loan balance of the Partner whose proportion of the outstanding loans is in excess of its Percentage Interest until the outstanding loans to each Partner are in proportion to their respective Percentage Interests;
                    (iv) to the Partners in payment of the balances in their respective Capital Accounts (as adjusted in accordance with Section 3.3); and
                    (v) to the Partners in proportion to each Partner's Percentage Interest.
          8.3 .
Events of Default
               (a) An "Event of Default" shall be considered to have occurred if any Partner:
                    (i) Fails to perform any of its material obligations under this Agreement or any of its indemnification obligations under the Contribution Agreement and continues such failure for twenty days after it has been given written notice by any nondefaulting Partner that is not an Affiliate of the defaulting Partner (provided, however, that if the failure is not a failure to pay money and is of such a nature that it cannot reasonably be cured within twenty days, but if it is curable and the defaulting Partner in good faith begins efforts to cure it within twenty days and continues diligently to do so, it shall have a reasonable additional period thereafter to effectuate the cure), or TCI Holdings, Inc. fails to perform any obligation under the Guaranty, dated as of June 23, 1998 provided to TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP;
 
48
                 (ii) Admits in writing its inability to pay its debts; fails generally to pay its debts as such debts become due; makes a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; files a petition in bankruptcy, petitions or applies to any tribunal for the appointment of a custodian, receiver or any trustee for it or a substantial part of its assets; commences any proceeding under any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, readjustment of debt, dissolution or liquidation law or statute of any jurisdiction, whether now or hereafter in effect; suffers the filing of any such petition or application, or the commencement of any such proceeding, against it in which an order for relief is entered or which remains undismissed for a period of sixty days; or by any act or omission indicates its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such petition, application or proceeding or order for relief or the appointment of a custodian, receiver or any trustee for it or any substantial part of any of its properties, or shall suffer any such custodianship, receivership or trusteeship to continue undischarged for a period of sixty days;
                    (iii) Transfers in any way its Interest, except as permitted in this Agreement, or suffers such Transfer;
                    (iv) Otherwise causes the dissolution of the Partnership in contravention of this Agreement.
               (b) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Related Partners, neither of whom is a nondefaulting Partner (the "Non-Defaulting Partners"), shall have the right, in addition to the right specified in the proviso to Section 8.1(e), to elect to continue the business of the Partnership as a successor partnership without liquidation of its affairs by giving written notice of such election to the other Partners within forty-five days of the date the non-defaulting Partners receive notice of such Event of Default. If such election is made, the Non-Defaulting Partners shall, within ninety days after the notice of such election has been given, pay, or cause a Person or Persons designated by them to pay, to the defaulting Partner and the defaulting Partner's Related Partner (collectively, the "Defaulting Partners") in respect of their Interests an amount equal to the amount the Defaulting Partners would have received in respect of their Interests if the Partnership's assets and properties were sold for an amount equal to their Fair Market Value net of the Partnership's debts and liabilities (and related reserves) described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 8.2(c) (the "Partnership Fair Value") and the proceeds from such sale were distributed to the Partners in accordance with Section 8.2(c)(iv) and (v), and the Defaulting Partners shall Transfer to the Non-Defaulting Partners (or the Person or Persons designed by the Non-Defaulting Partners to purchase the Defaulting Partners' Interests), free and clear all liens, claims and encumbrances, the Defaulting Partners' Interests. Upon the purchase by the Non-Defaulting Partners (or their designees) of the Defaulting Partners' Interests pursuant to this Section 8.3(b), the Non-Defaulting Partners, or the Person or Persons designated by the Non-Defaulting Partners to purchase the Defaulting Partners' Interests, shall assume all obligations of the Defaulting Partners arising under this Agreement after the date of purchase except for any obligations or liabilities of the Defaulting Partners arising out of any breach of this Agreement or the Event of Default. In the event that the Non-Defaulting Partners do not elect to continue the Partnership, the affairs of the Partnership shall be wound up as
 
49
provided in Section 8.2, except that all references to the Management Committee therein shall be deemed to be references to the General Partner that is not a Defaulting Partner for purposes of applying such Section and such General Partner shall be entitled to deduct from any amounts to be paid to the Defaulting Partners under Section 8.2 the amount of damages proximately resulting to the Non-defaulting Partners from the Event of Default. The rights and remedies of each Partner set forth in this Section 8.3 shall be in addition to any other rights and remedies available to it under this Agreement, at law or in equity.
               (c) In the event that an independent appraisal of the Fair Market Value of any item or items (including the Partnership Fair Value) is required pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, such appraisal shall be made by a qualified appraiser selected by agreement of the General Partners. If the General Partners are unable to agree on the selection of an appraiser, each General Partner shall select one appraiser, and the two appraisers so selected shall select an additional appraiser. Each appraiser shall determine its estimate of the Fair Market Value (or the Partnership Fair Value, as the case may be), and the average of the two determinations that are closest in result shall be the Fair Market Value (or the Partnership Fair Value, as the case may be); provided that, if the difference between the highest determination and the middle determination is exactly equal to the difference between the lowest and the middle determinations, the middle determination shall be the Fair Market Value (or the Partnership Fair Value, as the case may be).
          8.4 Dissolution Procedure.
               (a) Subject to Section 8.4(g), at any time after the seventh anniversary of the Closing, either set of Related Partners (the "Triggering Partners") may, at their option, elect to initiate the Dissolution Procedure set forth in this Section 8.4 (the "Dissolution Procedure"). In such event, the Triggering Partners shall notify the other Partners (the "Non-Triggering Partners") in writing of their intention to initiate the Dissolution Procedure (the "Dissolution Notice").
               (b) Upon receipt of a Dissolution Notice, the Non-Triggering Partners may elect to either:
                 (i) divide the assets and liabilities of the Partnership into two pools in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Section 8.4(c) (each, an "Asset Pool"), in which case the Non-Triggering Partners shall be referred to as the "Dividing Partners" and the Triggering Partners shall be referred to as the "Selecting Partners"; or
                 (ii) cause the Triggering Partners to (A) divide the assets and liabilities of the Partnership into two Asset Pools, in which case the Triggering Partners shall be referred to as the "Dividing Partners" and the Non-Triggering Partners shall be referred to as the "Selecting Partners," and (B) deliver to the Non-Triggering Partners the Triggering Partners' determination of the Stated Value.
 
50
The failure of the Non-Triggering Partners to notify the Triggering Partners of their election pursuant to this Section 8.4(b) within ninety days of receipt of the Dissolution Notice shall be deemed to be an election by the Non-Triggering Partners described in clause (i) of the first sentence.
               (c) Within ninety days after the election or deemed election described in Section 8.4(b) or the election described in Section 7.4(b)(iii), the Dividing Partners shall deliver to the Selecting Partners a notice (the "Selection Notice") setting forth in reasonable detail the composition of the two Assets Pools created in accordance with this Section 8.4(c) and to be distributed in accordance with Section 8.4(e), and, in the case of an election made pursuant to clause (ii) of Section 8.4(b), the Dividing Partners' determination of the Stated Value. The Asset Pools to be established by the Dividing Partners pursuant to this Section 8.4(c) (i) shall have equivalent net Fair Market Values and (ii) shall each contain, subject to the next sentence and the proviso to this sentence, approximately 50% of the Partnership's assets and 50% of the Partnership's liabilities, in each case as reasonably determined in good faith by the Dividing Partner; provided that, subject to clause (2) of the next sentence, the systems or assets serving the Houston DMA shall not be included in more than one Asset Pool. In the event the Partnership's assets and liabilities are not capable of being divided in accordance with the principles outlined in the preceding sentence due to the size of the Houston DMA, the Dividing Partners shall adjust the assets and liabilities included in the two Asset Pools in the following manner:
                 (1) , by adjusting the indebtedness to be included in the Asset Pools by such amount (not to exceed, in the aggregate, $150,000,000) as shall be necessary to comply with the requirements set forth in the preceding sentence; and
first
                 (2) , if the adjustment described in clause (1) is insufficient, by excluding from the Asset Pool containing the systems and assets serving the Houston DMA the systems and assets set forth on Schedule 8.4(c), in the order of priority set forth on Schedule 8.4(c), until the two Asset Pools, after giving effect to the adjustments made pursuant to clause (1) and this clause (2), comply with the requirements set forth in the preceding sentence (other than the proviso contained therein).
second
The Dividing Partners shall provide to the Selecting Partners all information about the composition of the Asset Pools as is reasonably requested by the Selecting Partners to assist in making their selection pursuant to Section 8.4(d).
               (d) Upon receipt of the Selection Notice, the Selecting Partners shall have the right to:
               (i) select the Asset Pool to be distributed to them upon dissolution of the Partnership pursuant to Section 8.4(e); or
               (ii) sell their Interests to the Dividing Partners (or their qualified designees) at a purchase price, payable in cash, equal to the amount the Selecting Partners would have received in respect of their Interests if the Partnership's assets and properties were sold for an amount equal to the Stated Value and the proceeds thereof were distributed to the Partners in accordance with Section 8.2(c)(iv) and (v); , that the right described in this clause (ii)
provided
 
51
shall not be available to the Selecting Partners if (A) the Dissolution Procedure was initiated pursuant to an election made under Section 7.4(b)(iii) or (B) the Selecting Partners also were the Triggering Partners.
If the Selecting Partners shall fail to make the selection provided for in the preceding sentence within ninety days after the date of the Selection Notice, the Dividing Partners shall have the right to select the Asset Pool to be distributed to them upon the dissolution of the Partnership pursuant to Section 8.4(e). If the Dividing Partners fail to deliver a Selection Notice within ninety days of the date of the election or deemed election made in Section 8.4(b), the Selecting Partners shall have the right to divide the assets and liabilities of the Partnership into two Asset Pools in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 8.4(c) and to select the Asset Pool to be distributed to them in accordance with Section 8.4(e); provided that the Selecting Partners must divide the Asset Pools and make their selection within ninety days of the date the Selection Notice was required to have been delivered pursuant to Section 8.4(c). After a selection has been made pursuant to this Section 8.4(d) (other than a selection made pursuant to Section 8.4(d)(ii)), the amount of the Partnership's outstanding indebtedness allocated to each Asset Pool pursuant to Section 8.4(c) shall be adjusted appropriately to reflect any differential that may exist between the aggregate Capital Account balances of, and the aggregate outstanding principal amount of indebtedness, and any interest thereon, owed by the Partnership to, the Selecting Partners, on the one hand, and the Dividing Partners, on the other hand, and the Partners shall otherwise proceed in accordance with Sections 8.4(e) and (f). If the Selecting Partners make the election provided in Section 8.4(d)(ii), the Selecting Partners shall be deemed to be the "Transferring Partners" and the Dividing Partners shall be deemed to be the "Purchasing Partners," and the Partners shall otherwise proceed in accordance with Sections 7.4(g), (h) and (i).
               (e) As soon as reasonably practicable after the selection made pursuant to Section 8.4(d) (other than a selection made pursuant to Section 8.4(d)(ii)), and subject to obtaining any required governmental or other third party consents or approvals, the systems and assets comprising the Asset Pools (as divided and adjusted pursuant to Sections 8.4(c) and (d)) shall be distributed to each set of Related Partners in accordance with the selection made pursuant to Section 8.4(d) and in accordance with each Partner's Percentage Interest relative to its Related Partner's Percentage Interest. In connection with the distributions contemplated by this Section 8.4(e), each set of Related Partners will execute an assumption agreement pursuant to which such Partners will assume all liabilities relating to, arising out of or otherwise attributable to the Asset Pool being distributed to them and will further agree to indemnify the other set of Related Partners for any losses such other Partners may suffer with respect to any of such liabilities. Such assumption agreement shall contain terms substantially similar to those contained in Article IV of the Contribution Agreement relating to the assumption of liabilities and Article XI of the Contribution Agreement.
               (f) Until such time as all of the systems and assets comprising the Asset Pools have been distributed, the Partnership shall conduct its business in the ordinary course, consistent with past practice. Following the selection of an Asset Pool made pursuant to Section 8.4(d) (other than a selection made pursuant to Section 8.4(d)(ii)), to the extent permitted by law, (i) the assets comprising the Asset Pools shall for all purposes be deemed to be owned by the Partners to whom such Asset Pool is to be distributed, and (ii) until such assets are actually distributed to such Partners entitled to receive them, each Partner's Percentage Interest shall entitle it only to a distributive share of (A) the income, gain, losses and deductions relating to, and the
 
52
assets comprising, such Partner's portion of the Asset Pool to be distributed to it and its Related Partner.
               (g) No Dissolution Notice may be given while any Offer Notice or, except as contemplated by Section 7.4(b)(iii), Buy-Sell Procedure is pending, or after an Event of Termination has occurred.
          9.1 . A Partner shall not be personally liable for any debt, obligation or other liability of the Partnership, whether arising in contract, tort or otherwise, except that a Partner shall remain personally liable (a) for the payment of any capital contributions required by Article III, and (b) as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Act and any other applicable law.
Liability of Partners
          9.2 .
Liability of Covered Persons
               (a) Except as expressly provided herein, no Covered Person shall be liable to the Partnership or any other Covered Person for any Damages incurred by reason of any act or omission performed or omitted by such Covered Person in good faith on behalf of the Partnership and in a manner reasonably believed to be within the scope of authority conferred on such Covered Person by this Agreement, except that a Covered Person shall be liable for any such Damages incurred by reason of such Covered Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
               (b) A Covered Person shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Partnership and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Partnership by any Person as to matters the Covered Person reasonably believes are within such other Person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Partnership, including information, opinions, reports or statements as to the value and amount of the assets, liabilities, profits, losses, or any other facts pertinent to the existence and amount of assets from which distributions to Partners might properly be paid.
          9.3 . To the extent that, at law or in equity, any Covered Person has duties (including fiduciary duties) and liabilities related thereto to the Partnership or to any other Covered Person, a Covered Person acting under this Agreement shall not be liable to the Partnership or to any other Covered Person for its good faith reliance on the provisions of this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that they restrict the duties and liabilities of a Covered Person otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the Partners to replace such other duties and liabilities of such Covered Person.
Duties and Liabilities of Covered Persons
          9.4 .
Indemnification
               (a) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Partnership shall indemnify any Covered Person from and against any and all Damages arising from any and all Claims brought by or against the Partnership, including a Claim by or in the right of the Partnership to procure a judgment in its favor, by reason of the fact that such Covered Person is or was a Partner, officer, employee or agent of the Partnership, or that
 
53
such Covered Person is or was serving at the request of the Partnership as a partner, member, director, officer, trustee, employee or agent of another Person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no indemnification shall be provided to or on behalf of any Covered Person if a judgment or other final adjudication adverse to such Covered Person establishes that his or her acts constituted willful misconduct or gross negligence.
               (b) The Partnership and each Partner (each, a "General Manager Indemnitor") hereby agree, jointly and severally, to indemnify and hold harmless the General Manager, its Affiliates, and all officers, directors, employees, stockholders, partners and agents of the General Manager and its Affiliates (each, a "General Manager Indemnitee") from and against any and all Damages arising from any and all Claims in which the General Manager Indemnitee may be involved or threatened to be involved, as a party or otherwise, arising out of the General Manager's performance of its obligations under the Management Agreement or the operation of the Systems, regardless of whether this Agreement or the Management Agreement continues to be in effect or the General Manager Indemnitee continues to be an Affiliate, or an officer, director, employee, stockholder, partner or agent of the General Manager at the time any such Claims are made or Damages incurred; provided that (i) the General Manager and the General Manager Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner it reasonably believed to be in the best interest of the Partnership and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe its conduct was unlawful, and (ii) neither the General Manager's conduct nor the General Manager Indemnitee's conduct constituted gross negligence, willful misconduct or a breach of the Management Agreement.
               (c) The Partnership, in the case of subsection (a), and the General Manager Indemnitor, in the case of subsection (b), shall pay expenses incurred in defending any Claim described in subsections (a) and (b) (including reasonable legal fees and expenses of counsel and other experts) in advance of the final disposition of such Claim upon receipt by the Partnership or the General Manager Indemnitor, as the case may be, of an undertaking, in form satisfactory to the legal counsel of the Partnership or the General Manager Indemnitor, as the case may be, to repay such amount if it shall be determined that the Covered Person or General Manager Indemnitee, as the case may be, is not entitled to be indemnified as authorized by subsections (a) and (b) above.
               (d) No Covered Person or General Manager Indemnitee, as the case may be, shall settle or compromise any Claim for which it is seeking indemnification pursuant to subsections (a) or (b) without obtaining the prior written consent of the Person providing indemnification thereto. Neither the Partnership nor the General Manager Indemnitor, as the case may be, shall settle or compromise any Claim for which it is providing indemnification pursuant to subsections (a) or (b) without obtaining the prior written consent of the Covered Person or General Manager Indemnitee, as the case may be, seeking, and entitled to, indemnification thereunder, unless such Covered Person or General Manager Indemnitee, as the case may be, is fully released and held harmless from any liability related to such Claim.
               (e) The indemnification provided by this Section 9.4 shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to indemnification to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under any agreement, determination of the Management Committee or otherwise. The rights to indemnification and reimbursement or advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Section 9.4 shall continue as to a Covered Person who has ceased to be a Partner, officer, employee or
 
54
agent (or other person indemnified hereunder) and shall inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, executors, administrators, legatees and distributees of such Person.
               (f) The provisions of this Section 9.4 shall be a contract between the Partnership or the Partners, as the case may be, on the one hand, and each Covered Person who served in such capacity at any time while this Section 9.4 is in effect, on the other hand, pursuant to which the Partnership, the Partners and each such Covered Person intend to be legally bound. No repeal or modification of this Section 9.4 shall affect any rights or obligations with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or thereafter arising or any proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon such state of facts.
          9.5 . The Partnership may purchase and maintain insurance, to the extent and in such amounts as the General Manager shall deem reasonable on behalf of Covered Persons and such other Persons as the General Manager shall determine, against any liability that may be asserted against or expenses that may be incurred by any such Person in connection with the activities of the Partnership or such indemnities, regardless of whether the Partnership would have the power to indemnify such Person against such liability under the provisions of this Agreement.
Insurance
          10.1 . Except as may be otherwise provided by law in connection with the winding-up, liquidation and dissolution of the Partnership, each Partner hereby irrevocably waives any and all rights that it may have to maintain an action for partition of any of the Partnership's property.
Waiver of Partition
          10.2 . This Agreement may be modified or amended only with the written consent of all Partners. The observance of any term of this Agreement may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively) by a writing signed by the party or parties against which such waiver is to be asserted. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, no delay on the part of any party hereto in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any waiver on the part of any party hereto of any right, power or privilege hereunder operate as a waiver of any other right, power or privilege hereunder nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege hereunder.
Modifications; Waivers
          10.3 . This Agreement, the Contribution Agreement and the Management Agreement and the documents expressly referred to herein and therein constitute the entire agreement among the Partners with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede any prior agreement or understanding among them with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
          10.4 . If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of such provision to any person or circumstance, shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement or the application of such provision to other Persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, provided that the parties shall negotiate in good faith with respect to an equitable modification of the provision or application thereof held to be invalid.
Severability
 
55
          10.5 . Any notice, request, demand or other communication hereunder required or permitted to be given under this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered in person or by first class, prepaid, registered or certified mail, or sent by courier or, if receipt is confirmed, by telecopier:
Notices
          If to TWE-A/N or TWE-A/N GP:
Time Warner Entertainment -     Advance/Newhouse Partnership TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners     General Partner LLC Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902 Attention: David E. O'Hayre Telecopy No: (203) 328-0691
S
          With a copy to :
Time Warner Entertainment -     Advance/Newhouse Partnership TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners     General Partner LLC Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902 Attention: Marc Apfelbaum Telecopy: (203) 328-4840
S
          If to TCI or TCI GP:
TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC TCI Texas Cable, Inc. c/o Tele-Communications, Inc. 5619 DTC Parkway Englewood, CO 80111 Attention: William R. Fitzgerald Telecopy No: (303) 488-3219
Copy: Legal Department
or to such other address as any Partner or the Partnership shall have last designated by notice to the Partnership and the other Partners, as the case may be. All notices will be deemed to have been received on the date of delivery, which in the case of deliveries by telecopier, will be the date of the sender's confirmation.
          10.6 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
Governing Law
 
56
          10.7 . Except as otherwise specifically provided, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Partners, and their legal representatives, successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
          10.8 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall consist one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          10.9 . The Article and Section headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
          10.10 . None of the provisions of this Agreement shall be for the benefit of or enforceable by any creditors of the Partnership. No one, including but not limited to the Partners or any creditor of the Partnership or any of its Partners, shall have any rights under this Agreement against any Affiliate of any Partner.
Construction
          10.11 . Each Partner shall execute and deliver such other certificates, agreements and documents, and take such other actions, as may reasonably be required in connection with the formation of the Partnership and the achievement of its purposes, including, without limitation, (a) any documents that the General Manager deems necessary or appropriate to form, qualify, or continue the Partnership in all jurisdictions in which the Partnership conducts or plans to conduct business and (b) all such agreements, certificates, tax statements and other documents, including, without limitation, all necessary applications or other requests for authority to be filed with the Federal Communications Commission, as may be required to be filed in respect of the Partnership.
Further Actions
          10.12 . This Agreement is made solely and specifically among and for the benefit of the parties hereto, and their respective successors and assigns (subject to the express provisions hereof relating to successors and assigns), and is not intended to confer any benefits upon, or create any rights in favor of, any Person other than the parties hereto, and, in the case of Article IX, any Covered Persons and the General Manager Indemnitees.
No Third Party Rights
          10.13 . The Partners agree that the remedy at law for damages upon violation of the terms of this Agreement would be inadequate because the Interests and the business of the Partnership are unique. Therefore, the Partners agree that the provisions of this Agreement may be specifically enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction, and each Partner and its respective transferees agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the court where any such action for specific performance is brought. If any Partner defaults or is alleged to have defaulted in its performance of any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and if, as a result of such default or alleged default, a lawsuit seeking damages, specific performance, or any other remedy is filed by any other Partner, then, in that event, the prevailing part(ies) in such a lawsuit shall be entitled to obtain costs, including attorneys' fees, from the non-prevailing party in such amount as shall be determined by the court to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Specific Performance; Attorneys Fees
          10.14 . Any claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be instituted only in a Federal district court located in the State of Delaware or a Chancery Court located in Wilmington County, State of Delaware and each Partner agrees not to commence legal
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
57
proceedings or otherwise proceed against any other Partner in respect of any claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in any other jurisdiction (including in any Federal or State court located in the State of Texas). Each Partner agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, in any such claim, any claim that it is not subject personally to the jurisdiction of such court, that the claim is brought in an inconvenient forum, that the venue of the claim is improper or that this Agreement or the subject matter hereof may not be enforced in or by such court. Each Partner further irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such court in any such claim. Each Partner hereby appoints The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc. (the "Agent"), at the Agent's offices of 1013 Centre Road, Wilmington, Delaware 19805-1297, or its office at such address in Delaware as it hereafter furnishes to the other Partners, as such Partner's authorized agent to accept and acknowledge on such Partner's behalf service of any and all process that may be served in any such claim. Any and all service of process and any other notice in any such claim shall be effective against any Partner if given personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any other means of mail that requires a signed receipt, postage prepaid, mailed to such Partner as herein provided, or by personal service on the Agent with a copy of such process mailed to such Partner by first class mail or registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid.
          10.15 . EACH PARTNER HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTNER HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTNER HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTNER WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTNERS HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
58
INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
          10.16 . This Agreement has been negotiated by the Partners and their respective legal counsel, and legal or other equitable principles that might require the construction of this Agreement or any provision of this Agreement against the Partner drafting this Agreement will not apply in any construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Construction
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first above written.
 
59
 
60
 
61
 
62
 
63
 
64
 
65
 
66
 
67
 
68
 
 
69
If the provisions of Section 8.4(c) require that the Asset Pools be adjusted in accordance with Section 8.4(c)(2) thereof, then the Dividing Partners shall exclude from the Asset Pool containing the systems and assets serving the Houston DMA the systems and assets set forth below, in the order set forth below, until the Asset Pools comply with the requirements of Section 8.4(c). For the avoidance of doubt, the Dividing Partners shall first exclude the assets principally related to serving Liberty, then the assets principally related to serving Columbus/Eagle Lake, and so on, until the Asset Pools comply with the requirements of Section 8.4(c).
1. Liberty 2. Columbus/Eagle Lake 3. Rosenberg 4. Baytown/Northshore 5. Galveston 6. Woodlands 7. Houston Bay (La Marque)

 
 
Exhibit 10.8
[EXECUTION COPY]
          This Amendment ("Amendment") is made as of this 11th day of December, 1998, by and among Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership ("TWE-A/N"), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("TWE-A/N GP"), and TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company ("TCI"), and TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation ("TCI GP").
          TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP are parties to that certain Limited Partnership Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1998 (the "Partnership Agreement"), establishing Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"). The parties hereto wish to amend the Partnership Agreement as provided herein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Partnership Agreement.
          In consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          1. The definition of "Senior Credit Agreement" as it appears in Section 1.1 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding at the end of such definition the following::
          2. Section 3.1 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding immediately after the first sentence therein the following:
          
 
2
"Upon delivery of the Final Reports (as defined in the Contribution Agreement), the resolution of any items or amounts therein in accordance with the Contribution Agreement and the contribution of cash by TWE-A/N or TCI required by Section 3.3.3 of the Contribution Agreement, and the Percentage Interests of each Partner automatically will be revised effective as of the Closing Date to reflect the proportion that such Partner's capital contribution bears to the total capital contributed to the Partnership by the Partners (such calculations to be made on the basis of the Final Reports), it being understood that the aggregate Percentage Interest of TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP, on the one hand, and TCI and TCI GP, on the other hand, each shall equal 50%."
          3. Section 3.2(b) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by (a) deleting the number "(i)" therefrom and (b) deleting in its entirety the portion of such Section appearing immediately after the words "Section 3.3.3 of the Contribution Agreement" and immediately prior to the period thereof.
          4. The first sentence of Section 3.7 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
          5. Section 3.7 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting the last sentence thereof.
          6. Section 4.4(a) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following sentence at the end of such Section:
 
3
          7. Clause (ii) of the second sentence of Section 6.4(a) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by inserting after the words "affiliation agreement to be entered into by the Partnership" the words "(or TWE-A/N)".
          8. Section 6.4(a) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding at the end of such section the following:
 
4
 
5
          9. The Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new Section 6.10 to read in its entirety as follows:
          "6.10 . Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Management Agreement to the contrary, upon request by the General Manager, TCI agrees to cause its appropriate Affiliate to negotiate in good faith with the General Manager regarding the terms of a services agreement pursuant to which such Affiliate of TCI would provide, in one or more Systems of the Partnership, such operating, support and consulting services as the General Manager reasonably determines would be more efficiently provided by such Affiliate of TCI than by the General Manager. In addition, upon the request of an Affiliate of TCI, the General Manager, for and in the name and on behalf of the Partnership, agrees to negotiate in good faith with the appropriate Affiliate of TCI regarding the terms of a services agreement pursuant to which the Partnership, utilizing the services of the General Manager, would provide, in one or more Systems of such Affiliate of TCI, such operating, support and consulting services as such Affiliate of TCI reasonably determines would be more efficiently provided by the Partnership than by such Affiliate of TCI. If any services agreement contemplated by this Section 6.10 is entered into, each Partner agrees to execute and deliver, or to cause the Partnership to execute and deliver, such certificates, agreements and documents, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Partner, and to take such other actions, or to cause the Partnership to take such other actions, as may reasonably be required in connection with the entry into such services agreement and the achievement of its purposes.".
Operating Support and Consulting Services
          10. Section 7.2 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the word "and" appearing at the end of clause (c) thereof, and by adding the following at the end of such Section after the words "following such Transfer" and before the period:
          "; and
              (e) any Transfer of Interests contemplated by any pledge or similar security agreement to be entered into by the Partners in connection with the Senior Credit Agreement or any renewal, extension, modification or refinancing of the Senior Credit Agreement".
 
6
          11. This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof.
          12. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Partnership Agreement shall remain the same, the Partnership Agreement, as amended hereby, shall continue in full force and effect and this Amendment and the Partnership Agreement shall be read and construed as one instrument.
          13. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
          14. This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
7
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Partners have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above.
 
8
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Partners have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above.

 
Exhibit 10.9
          This Amendment ("Amendment") is made as of the 16th day of May, 2000 by and among Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership ("TWE-A/N"), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("TWE-A/N GP"), and TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company ("TCI"), and TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation ("TCI GP").
          TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP are parties to that certain Limited Partnership Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1998, and amended as of December 11, 1998 (as amended, "Partnership Agreement"), establishing Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"). The parties hereto wish to amend further the Partnership Agreement as provided herein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Partnership Agreement.
          In consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          1. Section 6.4(a) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
               (a) The Partners hereby agree that (i)(A) ServiceCo will be the exclusive provider of the Internet Services over the cable plant and equipment of the Systems, and (B) the Partnership will not, and will not permit any Person (including the General Manager) other than ServiceCo to, provide or distribute Internet Services using the cable plant and equipment of the Systems, in each case without the prior written consent of TWE-A/N , and (ii) the terms and provisions relating to the Partnership's obligations with respect to the distribution of the ServiceCo's Internet Services over the Systems will be set forth in an affiliation agreement to be entered into by the Partnership and ServiceCo (or TWE-A/N). If requested by either TCI or TWE-A/N, each of TWE-A/N and TCI shall use its good faith and commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Partnership to enter into a written agreement (the "Road Runner Agreement") pursuant to which the Partnership will obtain directly from ServiceCo the right to provide the Internet Services of ServiceCo over the Systems as contemplated by this Section 6.4(a). The Road Runner Agreement will be on terms and conditions reasonably acceptable to each of the TWE-A/N and TCI. Until such time as the Partnership enters into the Road Runner Agreement (or an Interim Agreement, as defined below), TWE-A/N agrees that the Systems will be entitled to distribute ServiceCo's Internet Services pursuant to the Master Affiliation Agreement dated as of June 15, 1998, between ServiceCo and TWE-A/N (the "Master Affiliation Agreement"); provided, however, that if TWE-A/N notifies the Partnership that the Master Affiliation Agreement is proposed to be amended, modified or changed (or ServiceCo's compliance with the terms thereof waived) in a manner which is or is likely to be materially detrimental, operationally or economically, to the Partnership (considering all prior and contemporaneous amendments, modifications and changes), then, at the request of TWE-A/N or TCI, the Partnership will enter into an interim affiliation agreement (an "Interim Agreement") with
 
ServiceCo which contains terms and conditions that are identical to those contained in the Master Affiliation Agreement prior to such proposed amendment. Such Interim Agreement will terminate automatically and without further action of the parties thereto upon the execution and delivery of a Roadrunner Agreement entered into in accordance with the terms of this Section 6.4(a). TWE-A/N shall deliver to the Partnership and TCI a copy of each proposed amendment, modification, change or waiver to the Master Affiliation Agreement prior to the effectiveness thereof. Further, until such time as the Partnership enters into the Road Runner Agreement or an Interim Agreement, TWE-A/N will not amend, modify, change or add to any terms or conditions of any other ServiceCo operative document (or waiver ServiceCo's compliance therewith), which terms or conditions are applicable to or affect the affiliation relationship between ServiceCo and cable system operators affiliated with TWE-A/N, in a manner materially detrimental, operationally or economically, to the Partnership (considering all prior and contemporaneous amendments, modifications and changes) as measured against the terms set forth in the Master Affiliation Agreement as supplemented by that certain Certificate of TWE-A/N to the Partnership and TCI dated as of December 11, 1998. Nothing herein shall affect the Partnership's agreement that only ServiceCo will provide or distribute Internet Services using the cable plant and equipment of the Systems as set forth in the first sentence of this Section 6.4(a).
          2. The Partnership Agreement is hereby amended to delete in their entirety (a) the definitions of @Home, @Home Distribution Agreement, @Home Service, Exclusive Internet Services, and Internet Backbone Service, and (b) Sections 4.5(r) and 6.3(f) of the Partnership Agreement.
          3. This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof.
          4. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Partnership Agreement shall remain the same, the Partnership Agreement, as amended hereby, shall continue in full force and effect and this Amendment and the Partnership Agreement shall be read and construed as one instrument.
          5. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
          6. This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Partners have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.10
          This Amendment ("Amendment") is made as of this 23rd day of August, 2000 by and among Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership ("TWE-A/N"), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("TWE-A/N GP"), and TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company ("TCI"), and TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation ("TCI GP").
          TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP are parties to that certain Limited Partnership Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1998, and amended as of December 11, 1998, and as of May 16, 2000 (as amended, "Partnership Agreement"), establishing Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Partnership"). The parties hereto wish to amend further the Partnership Agreement as provided herein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Partnership Agreement.
          In consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
          1. TWE-A/N shall reimburse the Partnership for all amounts, if any, that are paid by the Partnership to Affiliates of TCI pursuant to the Partnership's indemnification obligations under Section 11.3 of that certain Asset Exchange Agreement between the Partnership and such Affiliates of TCI dated as of August 23, 2000 (the "Exchange Agreement"), as such obligations are limited by Section 11.6 of the Exchange Agreement, but only to the extent that the facts, circumstances, events or actions that gave rise to indemnifiable losses of such indemnified parties were in existence, had occurred or had been taken on or before December 31, 1998.
          2. Effective upon the closing of the Exchange Agreement, the table appearing in the definition of "Partnership ADI/DMA" automatically shall be amended to delete the references to Dallas-Fort Worth and Wichita Falls, TX-Lawton, OK, and to add a reference to Corpus Christi, TX, in each column in such table.
          3. Effective upon the closing of the Exchange Agreement, the definition of "" automatically shall be amended to read in its entirety as follows:
TWE-A/N Systems
Effective upon the closing of the Exchange Agreement, Schedule 2, referred to in the definition of "," automatically shall be amended (i) to delete references to the Commerce System, Graham System, Greenville System, Palestine System and Dallas Metro
TWE-A/N Systems
 
System, (ii) to delete references to the communities served by such former TWE-A/N Systems, and (iii) to add references to the following cable television systems and the following communities served by such TWE-A/N Systems:
 
          4. This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof.
          5. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Partnership Agreement shall remain the same, the Partnership Agreement, as amended hereby, shall continue in full force and effect and this Amendment and the Partnership Agreement shall be read and construed as one instrument.
          6. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
          7. This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Partners have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.11 EXECUTION COPY
     AMENDMENT No. 4 (this "") TO THE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT OF TEXAS CABLE PARTNERS, L.P., dated as of May 1, 2004, among Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership (""), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company (""), TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation (""), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), Comcast TCP Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("") as successor in interest to TCI of Missouri, Inc. (formerly known as Liberty Cable of Missouri, Inc.), a Missouri corporation (""), and TCI of Overland Park, Inc., a Kansas corporation ("").
Amendment
TWE-A/N
TWE-A/N GP
TCI
TCI GP
TWE
LCM LLC
LCM
Overland Park
     WHEREAS, Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), was formed by TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP pursuant to a Limited Partnership Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1998 (the "");
Partnership
Original TCP Agreement
     WHEREAS, the Original TCP Agreement was amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of December 11, 1998, Amendment No. 2 thereto, dated as of May 16, 2000 and Amendment No. 3 thereto, dated as of August 23, 2000 (as amended, the "");
Partnership Agreement
     WHEREAS, prior to the date hereof, TWE, LCM LLC and Overland Park were general partners of Kansas City Cable Partners, a Colorado general partnership (""), pursuant to an Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement of KCCP, dated as of August 31, 1998, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of December 8, 2003;
KCCP
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (Del. Code. Ann. Tit. 6  17-101 . .), the Colorado Uniform Partnership Act (Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann.  7-64-101 . .), and that certain Agreement of Merger and Transaction Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2003, amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 19, 2003 (as amended, the ""), among the Partnership, KCCP, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TWE, TCI, TCI GP, LCM, LCM LLC, Overland Park, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) thereof), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) thereof), on the date hereof KCCP merged with and into the Partnership (the ""), with the Partnership as the surviving limited partnership;
et
seq
et
seq
Transaction Agreement
Merger
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger, each general partner interest of KCCP was converted into a limited partner interest of the Partnership having the same
 
designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties as a limited partner interest of the Partnership immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger; and
          WHEREAS, the parties hereto wish to amend the Partnership Agreement to reflect, among other things, the Merger.
          In consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree to amend the Partnership Agreement as follows:
     
A. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE I (DEFINITIONS)
          1. . The recitals and Section 1.1 (Definitions) of the Partnership Agreement are hereby amended by deleting the following definitions in their entirety: "Affiliate"; "Cable Affiliates"; "Closing Date"; "Contribution Agreement"; "Gross Asset Value"; "Internet Backbone"; "Internet Services"; "Limited Partner"; "Management Agreement"; "Partnership ADI/DMA"; "Related Partners"; "ServiceCo"; "Sprint Agreement"; "TWC"; "TWE"; "TWE-A/N Systems"; and "Ultimate Parent".
Recitals and Section 1.1
          2. . Section 1.1 (Definitions) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby further amended by inserting the following definitions (alphabetically):
Section 1.1
: With respect to any Person, any other Person Controlling, Controlled by or under common Control with such Person; , that for purposes of this definition of Affiliate as used in Section 8.4(x), any trust, formed for the benefit of a Person or any of its Affiliates shall be deemed to be controlled by any Person who, directly or indirectly, holds a majority of the beneficial interests of such trust (and any Person who controls such Person); , , that, none of Comcast, Advance/Newhouse or any of their Parents or Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of TWE-A/N. It is hereby understood and agreed that for purposes of any indemnity pursuant to Section 8.4 hereto, the definition of Affiliate shall include the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to a set of Related Partners.
Affiliate
provided
provided
however
: Assets, properties and rights (including goodwill), wherever located (including in the possession of vendors or other third parties or elsewhere), whether real, personal or mixed, tangible, intangible or contingent, in each case whether or not recorded or reflected or required to be recorded or reflected on the books and records or financial statements of any Person, including the following:
Assets
 
                    (a) all accounting and other books, records and files whether in paper, microfilm, microfiche, computer tape or disc, magnetic tape or any other form;
                    (b) all apparatus, computers and other electronic data processing equipment, fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, office equipment, automobiles, trucks, aircraft, rolling stock, vessels, motor vehicles and other transportation equipment, special and general tools, test devices, prototypes and models and other tangible personal property;
                    (c) all inventories of materials, parts, raw materials, supplies, work-in-process and finished goods and products;
                    (d) all interests in real property of whatever nature, including easements and rights of way, whether as owner, mortgagee or holder of a security interest in real property, lessor, sublessor, lessee, sublessee or otherwise, and copies of all related documentation;
                    (e) all interests in any capital stock or other equity interests of any Subsidiary or any other Person, all bonds, notes, debentures or other securities issued by any Subsidiary or any other Person, all loans, advances or other extensions of credit or capital contributions to any Subsidiary or any other Person and all other investments in securities of any Person;
                    (f) all license agreements, leases of personal property, open purchase orders for raw materials, supplies, parts or services, unfilled orders for the manufacture and sale of products and other contracts, agreements or commitments;
                    (g) all deposits, letters of credit and performance and surety bonds;
                    (h) all written technical information, data, specifications, research and development information, engineering drawings, operating and maintenance manuals, and materials and analyses prepared by consultants and other third parties;
                    (i) all domestic and foreign patents, copyrights, trade names, trademarks, service marks and registrations and applications for any of the foregoing, mask works, trade secrets, inventions, other proprietary information and
 
licenses from third Persons granting the right to use any of the foregoing;
                    (j) all computer applications, programs and other software, including operating software, network software, firmware, middleware, design software, design tools, systems documentation and instructions;
                    (k) all cost information, sales and pricing data, customer prospect lists, supplier records, customer and supplier lists, records pertaining to customers and customer accounts, customer and vendor data, correspondence and lists, product literature, artwork, design, development and manufacturing files, vendor and customer drawings, formulations and specifications, quality records and reports and other books, records, studies, surveys, reports, plans and documents;
                    (l) all prepaid expenses, trade accounts and other accounts and notes receivable;
                    (m) all rights under contracts or agreements, all claims or rights against any Person arising from the ownership of any Asset, all rights in connection with any bids or offers and all claims, choses in action or similar rights, whether accrued or contingent;
                    (n) all insurance proceeds and rights under insurance policies and all rights in the nature of insurance, indemnification or contribution;
                    (o) all licenses, permits, approvals and authorizations issued by any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality, or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign;
                    (p) all cash or cash equivalents, bank accounts, lock boxes and other deposit arrangements;
                    (q) copies of all documentation related to insurance policies; and
 
                    (r) interest rate, currency, commodity or other swap, collar, cap or other hedging or similar agreements or arrangements.
 
 
 
Designated Market Area
Kansas City, MO
Kansas City, KS
Topeka, KS
Joplin-Pittsburg, KS
Corpus Christi, TX
Laredo, TX
El Paso, TX
Beaumont-Port Arthur, TX
Harlingen-Weslaco-Brownsville-McAllen, TX
San Antonio, TX
 
 
 
Designated Market Area
Corpus Christi, TX
Laredo, TX
El Paso, TX
Beaumont-Port Arthur, TX
Harlingen-Weslaco-Brownsville-McAllen, TX
San Antonio, TX
 
               3. Section 1.1 (Definitions) is hereby further amended by deleting the phrase "(except for any determination made pursuant to Section 7.4(a) or 8.4(c))" in the definition of "Fair Market Value".
Section 1.1.
               4. . Section 1.2 (Cross References) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by (a) deleting the following terms from the cross-reference table: "Asset Pool"; "Buy-Sell Notice"; "Buy-Sell Price"; "Buy-Sell Procedure"; "Buy-Sell Transaction"; "Contribution Agreement"; "CPST Subscribers"; "Dissolution Notice"; "Dividing Partners"; "FCC"; "Initiating Partners"; "Non-Initiating Partners"; "Purchasing Partners"; "Selecting Partners"; "Selection Notice"; "Social Contract"; "Stated Value"; and "Transferring Partners" and (b) adding the following terms to the cross-reference table (alphabetically):
Section 1.2
 
     
B. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE II (ORGANIZATION)
          1. . Section 2.1 (Formation) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the first sentence in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
Section 2.1
"The Partnership was formed on May 21, 1998, as a limited partnership under and pursuant to the provisions of the Act."
          2. . Section 2.2 (Name) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by replacing "Texas Cable Partners, L.P." with "Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P."
Section 2.2
          3. . Clause (a) of Section 2.3 (Purpose) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such section in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
Section 2.3(a)
"(a) to acquire, develop, own, finance, invest in, maintain, operate, expand, sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of cable television systems serving areas located primarily in (i) the Houston DMA and (ii) the Kansas & SW DMA (collectively, the "");"
Systems
4. . Clause (c) of Section 2.3 (Purpose) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting any references therein to "Section 6.5".
Section 2.3(c)
 
     
C. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE III (COMPANY CAPITAL)
          1. . Section 3.1 (Percentage Interests) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
Section 3.1
"3.1 . As of the Effective Time, after giving effect to the Merger, the respective Percentage Interests and the respective Capital Accounts (as defined in Section 3.3 hereof) of the Partners (or their transferees) in the Partnership are as set forth below:
Percentage Interests
A Partner's Interest shall for all purposes be personal property. Except as expressly provided herein, no Partner shall have any interest in specific Partnership property."
          2. . Section 3.2 (Capital Contributions) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the end of such section:
Section 3.2
"(f) The Partners hereby acknowledge and agree that any capital contributions made by TWE, LCM LLC or Overland Park to KCCP prior to the Effective Time shall be treated as capital contributions to the Partnership."
          3. . Section 3.3 (Capital Accounts) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
Section 3.3
"(a) A separate capital account (a "") shall be maintained for each Partner. Each Partner's Capital Account shall be credited with (i) the amount of such Partner's capital contribution made in cash, (ii) the Fair Market Value (net of liabilities assumed or taken subject to) of all property contributed by such Partner and (iii) such Partner's allocated share of Net Profit of the Partnership.
Capital Account
 
Each Partner's Capital Account shall be reduced by the amount of any cash distributions to such Partner and the Fair Market Value (net of liabilities assumed or taken subject to) of all property distributed in kind to such Partner and such Partner's allocated share of Net Loss of the Partnership.
(b) In the event of a Transfer of any Interest in the Partnership, the transferee shall succeed to that portion of the transferor's Capital Account that relates to such transferred Interest."
          4. . Section 3.7 (Partnership Debt) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the first three sentences thereof (which had been previously added pursuant to Amendment No. 1 to the Partnership Agreement). Section 3.7 (Partnership Debt) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby further amended by adding the following at the end thereof: "The foregoing provisions of this Section 3.7 shall apply to any credit agreement of any Subsidiary of the Partnership, including the KCCP Trust. The Partners hereby agree to cause the Partnership and its Subsidiaries, including the KCCP Trust, to have no less than $1,500,000,000 of aggregate Debt at all times prior to the Selection Date."
Section 3.7
mutatis mutandis
     
D. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE IV (PARTNERS; MANAGEMENT OF THE PARTNERSHIP)
          1. . The first sentence of Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by inserting "or any of the Partnership's Subsidiaries, including without limitation the KCCP Trust," after the phrase "the General Partners shall not permit the Partnership". Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby further amended such that all limitations imposed therein on the Partnership shall be deemed to apply to the Partnership together with its Subsidiaries, including without limitation, the KCCP Trust.
Section 4.5
          2. Clause (b) of Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the beginning of such section:
Section 4.5(b).
"(1) enter into any transaction involving the sale, exchange, transfer or other disposition of any of the Overland Park Assets which, when added to all other sales, exchanges, transfers or other dispositions of Overland Park Assets, would cause the aggregate Gross Asset Value of all Overland Park Assets sold, exchanged, transferred or otherwise disposed of since August 31, 1998 to exceed $250,000, other than sales, exchanges, transfers or other dispositions pursuant to Articles VII and VIII; or (2)"
 
          3. . Clause (f) of Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the end thereof: "or, for each fiscal year after 2003, modify or materially deviate from the then-effective Annual Budget for each Asset Pool (it being understood that for each such fiscal year, the making of capital expenditures and operating expenditures not exceeding 110% and 105%, respectively, of the amount budgeted therefor in the then-effective Annual Budget for such Asset Pool shall not be considered a material deviation from such Annual Budget for such Asset Pool for purposes of this Section 4.5(f));".
Section 4.5(f)
          4. . Clause (o) of Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting any references therein to "Section 7.2(d)".
Section 4.5(o)
          5. . Clause (q) of Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows: "(q) enter into any amendment to the Management Agreement or the KCCP Management Agreement;".
Section 4.5(q)
          6. . A new clause (r) is hereby added to Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement as follows:
Section 4.5(r)
"(r) amend the organizational documents of any Subsidiary of the Partnership, including the trust agreement governing the KCCP Trust;"
          7. . A new clause (s) is hereby added to Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement as follows:
Section 4.5(s)
"(s) issue or authorize the issuance of any securities of any Subsidiary of the Partnership (including the KCCP Trust), other than to the Partnership or any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Partnership; and"
          8. . A new clause (t) is hereby added to Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement as follows:
Section 4.5(t)
"(t) acquire any material Shared Asset that will not be practicably divisible on the first Distribution Date;"
          9. . Section 4.5 (Actions Requiring Approval of the Management Committee) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the end of such section:
Section 4.5
 
" that, after the HSR Date for the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners, the Partnership may take any of the foregoing actions, other than those described in Section 4.5(b) or Section 4.5(t), to the extent solely relating to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners if TCI GP consents to such action; , that, after the HSR Date for the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners, the General Manager (so long as it remains an Affiliate of TWI) may cause the Partnership to take any of the foregoing actions, other than those described in Section 4.5(b) or Section 4.5(t), to the extent solely relating to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners without the consent of any General Partner."
provided
provided
further
          10. . Section 4.6 (General Manager) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Section 4.6
     (a) The proviso to the second sentence is amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
     " that the General Manager shall act in full accordance with the terms of the Management Agreement, the decisions of the Management Committee pursuant to Section 4.5 and the General Partners pursuant to Section 4.10 and shall have no authority to take any action requiring approval of the Management Committee or the General Partners without first obtaining such approval."
provided
     (b) The third sentence is amended by deleting the words "(subject to Section 6.4(a))".
     (c) The following is added to the end of Section 4.6:
     "Except where the context otherwise indicates, all references in this Agreement to the "General Manager" shall be deemed to include, to the extent applicable, the general manager of the KCCP Trust."
          11. . Section 4.9 (Annual Budget) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Section 4.9
     (a) The first sentence is amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
"The Partnership has an annual budget for the operations of the Partnership and its Subsidiaries for 2004 (the "
Initial
 
") which has been approved by the Partners pursuant to the Transaction Agreement. The Initial Budget includes, and each Annual Budget (as defined below) shall include, a separate budget (including details of revenues, expenses, capital expenditures, etc. on a monthly basis) for each of the Houston Business, the Kansas Business and the Southwest Business (such separate budgets shall, with respect to an Asset Pool, be treated as the Annual Budget therefor). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the budgets for each of the Houston Business, the Kansas Business and the Southwest Business shall be considered, for purposes of approval required under this Section 4.9, as a single combined Annual Budget and shall be submitted as such to the Management Committee for approval in its entirety."
Budget
     (b) The second sentence is amended by deleting the reference therein to "1999" and replacing it with "2004".
          12. . A new Section 4.10 is hereby added to the Partnership Agreement as follows:
Section 4.10
"4.10 . From the date of the Dissolution Notice until the Distribution Date for an Asset Pool, the Partnership shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, (i) operate each Asset Pool in the ordinary course consistent with past practice (including completing line extensions, placing conduit or cable in new developments, fulfilling installation requests and continuing work on existing construction projects and including subscriber acquisition and retention) and not modify or materially deviate from the Annual Budget then in effect for such Asset Pool; (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact each Asset Pool's business organizations and relationships with third parties and to keep available the services of the employees presently employed in the operation of such Asset Pool's Systems; (iii) continue normal marketing, advertising and promotional expenditures with respect to each Asset Pool's Systems; and (iv) make capital expenditures and operating expenditures consistent with the Annual Budget for each Asset Pool; , , that with respect to each Asset Pool, for each fiscal year, the making of capital expenditures and operating expenditures exceeding 110% or 105%, respectively, of the amount budgeted therefor in the then-effective Annual Budget for such Asset Pool shall be considered a material deviation from, or inconsistent with, such Annual Budget for such Asset Pool for purposes of clauses (i) and (iv) of this
Actions Requiring Approval of the General Partners
provided
however
 
sentence; that from and after the Selection Date (A) the Partnership shall be permitted not to comply with the provisions of this sentence to the extent solely relating to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners if TCI GP consents to such action; and (B) the General Manager (so long as it remains an Affiliate of TWI) may cause the Partnership not to comply with this sentence to the extent solely related to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners without the consent of any other Person. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (x) from the date of the Dissolution Notice until the Selection Date, the Partnership and the General Manager will not, and will cause the Subsidiaries of the Partnership not to, without the consent of each General Partner (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and (y) from the Selection Date until the first Distribution Date, the Partnership and the General Manager will not, and will cause the Subsidiaries of the Partnership not to, without the consent of each General Partner, in each case except to the extent such action is contemplated by the Annual Budget then in effect (with specificity reasonably sufficient to have put the Partners on notice of such action at the time of approval of an Annual Budget):
provided
further,
(a) modify, terminate, renew, suspend or abrogate any franchises and similar authorizations or similar permits issued by any Person related to the Systems or material cable television relay service, business radio and other licenses, authorizations, consents or permits issued by the FCC or any other Person related to the Systems or agree to the imposition of any condition to the transfer of any of the foregoing;
(b) enter into any material amendment to any contract or commitment which meets the criteria set forth in Section 4.10(d) hereof;
(c) terminate any contract or commitment which meets the criteria set forth in Section 4.10(d) hereof, other than a termination of such contract or commitment at its stated expiration date;
(d) enter into or renew any contract or commitment of any kind relating to the Systems which would be binding on any System after the first Distribution Date and which (i) would involve an aggregate expenditure or receipt in excess of $1,000,000; (ii) would limit the freedom of any Partner or
 
its Affiliates to compete in any line of business or with any Person or in any area; (iii) is not on arm's-length terms; or (iv) is with a Partner or any of its Affiliates;
(e) engage in any marketing, subscriber installation or collection practices other than in the ordinary course of business;
(f) change the rate charged for any level of cable television service including, without limitation, any level of basic, tiered or pay cable television service, or re-tier its channels;
(g) add or delete any channels from any System, or change the channel lineup in any System or commit to do so in the future;
(h) grant or agree to grant to any employee of the Systems any increase in (i) wages or bonuses except in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices or (ii) any severance, profit sharing, retirement, deferred compensation, insurance or other compensation or benefits, except in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices;
(i) engage in any hiring practices that are inconsistent with past practices;
(j) sell, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of any assets except in the ordinary course of business and except for the disposition of obsolete or worn-out equipment;
(k) mortgage, pledge or subject to any material lien that would survive the first Distribution Date any of the Assets or the Systems;
(l) make any cost-of-service or hardship election under the Rules and Regulations adopted under the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992;
(m) enter into any transaction involving the borrowing of funds or the incurrence of debt (including the issuance of debt securities) by the Partnership or any of its Subsidiaries;
(n) make or change any tax election, change any annual tax accounting period, adopt or change any method of tax accounting, file any amended return, enter into any closing
 
agreement, settle any tax claim or assessment, surrender any right to claim a tax refund, offset or other reduction in tax liability with respect to an Asset Pool for any period (or portions thereof) commencing on or after the Allocation Date; , that this Section 4.10(n) shall not prevent the Partnership or the General Manager from taking any such action for periods (or portions thereof) ending prior to the Allocation Date in accordance with the Partnership Agreement and the Management Agreement as in effect immediately prior to the execution and delivery of this Agreement; , that the Partnership or the General Manager shall not take any action described in the preceding proviso without (1) TCI GP's consent, if such action would materially disproportionately adversely affect the tax treatment of the Comcast Partners or the tax attributes of the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners when compared to such action's adverse effect on the tax treatment of the TWI Partners or the tax attributes of the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners and (2) TWE-A/N GP's consent, if such action would materially disproportionately adversely affect the tax treatment of the TWI Partners or the tax attributes of the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners when compared to such action's adverse effect on the tax treatment of the Comcast Partners or the tax attributes of the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners;
provided
provided
further
(o) enter into any agreement with an internet service provider that relates to or would otherwise bind any System (an ""), or enter into any capacity use agreement that relates to or would otherwise bind any System, after the first Distribution Date and which would not be terminable without penalty as to Systems transferred to Persons not Affiliated with the TWI Partners after a reasonable transition period (not to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days);
ISP Agreement
that, after the Selection Date, the Partnership may take any of the foregoing actions to the extent solely relating the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners if TCI GP consents to such action; , that, after the Selection Date, the General Manager (so long as it remains an Affiliate of TWI) may cause the Partnership to take any of the foregoing actions to the extent solely related to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners without the consent of any General Partner.
provided
provided
further
 
The Partners hereby agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the Management Agreement, if the General Manager seeks the consent of TCI GP to take any of the actions set forth in clauses (a) through (o) of this Section 4.10 and TCI GP does not promptly consent to the taking of such action, then the Partnership and the General Manager and its Affiliates shall have no liability to the Comcast Partners for or with respect to any and all Damages arising from or related to the failure of the Partnership to take such action."
     
E. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE V (BOOKS AND RECORDS; REPORTS TO PARTNERS)
          1. . Section 5.2 (Financial Statements) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
Section 5.2
     "5.2 . The Partnership shall cause the General Manager to deliver, or cause to be delivered, to each Partner the following information and financial statements:
Financial Statements
     (a) Within thirty (30) days after the close of each of the first three quarterly accounting periods in each fiscal year (i) an unaudited consolidated statement of Partners' equity, (ii) an unaudited consolidated income statement of the Partnership for such year to date period, (iii) an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Partnership as of the end of such quarterly period, and (iv) an unaudited consolidated statement of cash flows of the Partnership for such year to date period, all prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied by the Partnership, subject to year-end adjustments, and except for any inconsistencies explained in such statement and for the absence of footnotes. The financial statements to be delivered pursuant to this Section 5.2(a) shall include consolidating schedules showing separately each of the Houston Business and the Southwest Business, together with the amount and a description of the Assets and Liabilities accounted for at the Partnership's topside cost centers (a "").
Topside Description
     (b) Within eighty (80) days after the close of each fiscal year (i) a consolidated statement of Partners' equity of the Partnership for such fiscal year, (ii) a consolidated income statement of the Partnership for such fiscal year, (iii) a consolidated balance sheet of the Partnership as of the end of such fiscal year, and (iv) a consolidated statement of cash flows of the Partnership for such fiscal year, all prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X and generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, except for any inconsistencies explained therein, and accompanied by a report thereon of the Partnership's independent accountants. The financial
 
statements to be delivered pursuant to this Section 5.2(b) shall include consolidating schedules showing the Houston Business and the Southwest Business, together with a Topside Description.
     (c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the KCCP Trust shall not be considered consolidated with the Partnership for purposes of this Section 5.2, and all reports and information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 5.2 with respect to the Partnership shall also be delivered with respect to the KCCP Trust.
     (d) For each of the Houston Business, the Kansas Business and the Southwest Business on a separate basis, within thirty days after the close of each calendar month: (i) an unaudited internally formatted income statement for such calendar month, complete with year-to-date comparisons to budget and the corresponding period of the prior year; (ii) an unaudited report of actual capital expenditures for the month and year-to-date, as compared to budgeted capital expenditures; (iii) a division report setting forth for such calendar month and with respect to the CATV systems included in each business the following information: (x) a reasonable estimate of the cumulative number of households having access to such Systems, (y) the number of subscribers to each of such Systems' services, and (z) a reasonable estimate of the number of plant miles; and (iv) a profits and loss analysis of the Assets and Liabilities accounted for at the Partnership's topside cost centers. The foregoing monthly information shall include, but not be limited to, the type of information contained in .
Exhibit D
     (e) Such other information as any partner may reasonably request, including without limitation, information related to Asset Pool Employees and Specified Division Employees, and the Assets and Liabilities associated therewith.
     (f) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any information to which a Partner Affiliated with Comcast is otherwise entitled under clause (e) of this Section 5.2 shall be subject to the following understandings:
     (i) requests to review the general ledger of the Partnership by any Comcast Partner shall be considered reasonable in connection with determinations necessary to appropriately allocate Debt or select an Asset Pool in connection with the Dissolution Procedure, to verify compliance with "closed system" accounting in Section 8.4(e) or the Working Capital Amount determination in Section 8.4, and for such other special projects as are from time to time reasonably needed (it being understood that any such review is not intended to grant the Comcast Partners an
 
audit right that they are otherwise not entitled to in connection with the Working Capital Amount determination or under the Act);
     (ii) information unrelated to the Partnership or its Subsidiaries may be redacted by the General Manager (it being understood that information obtained or created in a Partner's capacity as a Partner, including, without limitation, information prepared in contemplation of or in connection with any dispute with another Partner, shall not be considered information related to the Partnership);
     (iii) the General Manager may elect to exclude or redact information that contains competitively sensitive information, that is subject to confidentiality restrictions or that contains trade secrets or other sensitive information to the extent necessary to protect the legitimate business and confidentiality concerns of TWE and its Affiliates, in each case taking into account the need, if any, for such Partner to have such information in evaluating the appropriate allocation of Debt or selection of an Asset Pool in connection with the Dissolution Procedure, otherwise in connection with the Dissolution Procedure or for any other legitimate purpose relating to its Interest in the Partnership; and
     (iv) Notwithstanding any of the restrictions on providing requested information in this clause (f), the Partnership will provide, upon reasonable prior notice, for the bona fide purpose of evaluating the appropriate allocation of Debt or selection of Asset Pools to be made in connection with the Dissolution Procedure or otherwise in connection with the Dissolution Procedure, copies of all contracts that would have the effect of binding the Systems intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners in connection with the Dissolution Procedure (assuming for this purpose that, in the case of disclosure prior to the Selection Date, all the Systems are intended to be distributed to Comcast) if either (A) such contract would bind such System at any time following 120 days after the first Distribution Date or (B) such contract would result in a penalty on termination on the Systems intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners; that in no event shall the parties request or provide information hereunder in a manner that would violate applicable law, rules or regulations, including, without limitation regulations and orders of the FCC."
provided
     
F. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE VI (CERTAIN AGREEMENTS)
          1. . Section 6.1 (Other Businesses of the Partners) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the end of such section:
Section 6.1
 
"For purposes of this Section 6.1, the business of the Partnership shall be deemed to include the business of any Subsidiary of the Partnership, including without limitation, the KCCP Trust."
          2. . Section 6.2 (Non-Competition) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by replacing each occurrence of the phrase "Schedules 1 or 2" with "Exhibits B or C".
Section 6.2
          3. . Section 6.3 (Confidentiality) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Section 6.3
     (a) Clause (g) of Section 6.3 is amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
     (b) Section 6.3 is amended by adding the following at the end of such section:
"For purposes of this Section 6.3, the business of the Partnership shall be deemed to include the business of any Subsidiary of the Partnership, including, without limitation, the KCCP Trust. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, any Person subject to this Section 6.3 (and each officer, director, employee, representative or other agent of any such Person) is permitted to disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Contribution Agreement, and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) related to such tax treatment and tax structure; that this Section 6.3 shall not permit any person to disclose, except as otherwise set forth herein, the name of, or other information that would identify, any party to such transactions or to disclose confidential commercial or strategic information, or other proprietary information regarding such transactions not related to such tax treatment and tax structure."
provided
          4. . Clause (a) of Section 6.4 (Internet Services; Designated Programming Services) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Section 6.4(a)
          5. . Section 6.5 (Telephony Restrictions) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Section 6.5
 
          6. . Section 6.6 (Excess Inventory) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Section 6.6
          7. . Section 6.8 (Time Warner Social Contract) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Section 6.8
          8. . Section 6.9 (Furnishing of Employees by TWE-A/N) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Section 6.9
     (a) Clause (c) of Section 6.9 is amended by deleting references therein to "Closing Date" and replacing it with "Relevant Closing Date."
     (b) Section 6.9 is amended by adding the following at the end of such section:
"(g) The Partners hereby acknowledge that pursuant to the KCCP Management Agreement (i) the personnel providing services to the KCCP Trust shall be employees of TWE and not TWE-A/N or the Partnership and (ii) the wages, costs and expenses incurred by TWE or its Affiliates and attributable to the personnel providing services to the KCCP Trust shall be paid by the KCCP Trust to TWE or its Affiliates, as appropriate, in accordance with the terms of the KCCP Management Agreement. The Partners further acknowledge that (x) all duties and obligations of TWE-A/N under this Section 6.9 are intended to relate to the Partnership and its operations and properties excluding the KCCP Trust and its operations and properties, which are governed separately by the KCCP Management Agreement and (y) the parties do not intend duplication of efforts or expenses by TWE-A/N under this Section 6.9 and TWE under the KCCP Management Agreement with respect to the personnel."
          9. . Section 6.10 of the Partnership Agreement (Operating Support and Consulting Services) is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Section 6.10
          10. . Article VI (Certain Agreements) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the end of such section:
Section 6.11
"6.11 . The Partners agree that the Kansas Business will be operated solely through the KCCP Trust and no other business shall be operated through the KCCP Trust or owned by the KCCP Trust."
Kansas Business
 
     
G. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE VII (TRANSFERS)
          1. . Section 7.1 (General Restrictions) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended so that the fifth sentence of such section shall for all purposes be deemed to apply to the KCCP Trust such that upon the occurrence of an event whereby a General Partner acquires the right to designate itself or another qualified Person to become General Manager of the Partnership, such General Partner shall also acquire the right to cause the Partnership to designate such General Partner or another qualified Person to become the general manager of the KCCP Trust.
Section 7.1
          2. . Clause (a) of Section 7.2 (Permitted Transfers) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting any references therein to "Section 7.4".
Section 7.2(a)
          3. Clause (b) of Section 7.2 (Permitted Transfers) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by (x) adding references to Overland Park and LCM LLC after each reference to TCI and (y) deleting any references therein to "Section 7.2(d)".
Section 7.2(b).
          4. . Clause (d) of Section 7.2 (Permitted Transfers) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Section 7.2(d)
          5. . Clause (e) of Section 7.3 Right of First Refusal) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the words "Buy-Sell Procedure or".
Section 7.3(e)
          6. . Section 7.4 (Buy-Sell Procedure) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Section 7.4
          7. . Section 7.5 (Additional Provisions Relating to Transfer) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting any references therein to "Section 7.4".
Section 7.5
     
H. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE VIII (DURATION AND TERMINATION OF PARTNERSHIP)
          1. . Clause (a) of Section 8.1 (Events of Termination) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Section 8.1(a)
          2. . Clause (a) of Section 8.3 (Events of Default) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following at the end of paragraph (i) of such clause:
Section 8.3(a)
 
"or the Guaranty, dated as of March 23, 1998, provided by TCI Holdings, Inc. to TWE and KCCP, as amended as of May 1, 2004."
          3. . Section 8.4 (Dissolution Procedure) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with new Section 8.4 in the form annexed hereto as Annex A.
Section 8.4
     
I. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE X (MISCELLANEOUS)
          1. . Section 10.5 (Notices) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the phrase "If to TCI or TCI GP" and replacing it with "If to any of TCI, LCM LLC, Overland Park or TCI GP:", and the address for any of TCI, LCM LLC, Overland Park or TCI GP is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 10.5
TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC TCI Texas Cable, Inc. Comcast TCP Holdings, LLC TCI of Overland Park, Inc. c/o Comcast Corporation 1500 Market Street Philadelphia, PA 19102 Attention: General Counsel Telecopy No: (215) 981-7794
     
J. 
AMENDMENTS TO SCHEDULES
          1. . Schedule 2 (TWE-A/N Systems) is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Schedule 2
          2. . Schedule 8.4(c) (Asset Pool Prioritization) is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "[Intentionally Omitted.]"
Schedule 8.4(c)
     
K. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
          1. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the terms and conditions of the Partnership Agreement are ratified and shall remain unchanged and continue in full force and effect.
Ratification of the Partnership Agreement
          2. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
Governing Law
          3. . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall consist one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
          4. . The headings in this Amendment are for convenience of reference only, and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
ANNEX A TO AMENDMENT NO. 4
          8.4 .
Dissolution Procedure
     (a) . At any time on or after the date (the "") that is the later of (i) the day following the second anniversary of the Closing (as defined in the Transaction Agreement) and (ii) June 1, 2006, either set of Related Partners may, at their option, elect to initiate the Dissolution Procedure set forth in this Section 8.4 (the ""); , , that a Dissolution Procedure may not be initiated while any Dissolution Procedure is already pending and the Dissolution Notice with respect thereto has not been nullified, or after an Event of Termination has occurred (unless, in the case of Section 8.1(e), the Non-Defaulting Partners agree otherwise). In the event that a set of Related Partners wishes to initiate a Dissolution Procedure, such Related Partners (the "") shall notify the other Partners (the "") in writing of their intention to initiate the Dissolution Procedure (the ""). The Partnership shall, and shall cause the General Manager to, as soon as reasonably practicable after any given request at any time (whether before or after the Triggering Date), provide each Partner with all information reasonably requested by any Partner to facilitate the Dissolution Procedure. If each set of Related Partners delivers a Dissolution Notice on the same day, the set of Related Partners that are Affiliates of Comcast, or any subsequent Permitted Transferee of their Interests, (the "") shall be the Triggering Partners.
Delivery of Dissolution Notice
Triggering Date
Dissolution Procedure
provided
however
Triggering Partners
Non-Triggering Partners
Dissolution Notice
Comcast Partners
     (b) . On the day of delivery of the Dissolution Notice or within thirty (30) days after delivery of the Dissolution Notice, the Triggering Partners shall deliver a written notice (the "") to the Non-Triggering Partners setting forth the Triggering Partners' allocation of Debt (both by amount and Debt instrument) to each Asset Pool (as defined below) in each case as of 12:01 am on the date (the "") that is the first day of the month in which the Dissolution Notice is given; , , that if such first day of the month would be prior to the Triggering Date, then the Allocation Date shall be as of the Triggering Date. In the Allocation Notice, the sum of the Houston Amount (as defined below) and the Kansas & SW Amount (as defined below) shall equal the total amount of Debt as of the Allocation Date. If, in the reasonable judgment of the Triggering Partners, the aggregate amount of Debt is insufficient for purposes of making an appropriate allocation between the Asset Pools, the Partners will discuss alternatives for increasing the amount of Debt or making other adjustments in order to facilitate the Dissolution Procedure. In allocating Debt between the Asset Pools, except as otherwise needed to make an appropriate allocation, the Triggering Partners will attempt to allocate Debt owed to any set of Related Partners to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to such Related Partners (which, for the avoidance of doubt, would be expected to result in 50% of all Partner Debt existing on the Allocation Date being allocated to each Asset Pool). If the Triggering Partners fail
Delivery of Allocation Notice
Allocation Notice
Allocation Date
provided
however
 
to deliver an Allocation Notice to the Non-Triggering Partners within the thirty (30)-day period set forth above, (i) the Dissolution Notice delivered by the Triggering Partners shall become void and have no further effect, and the Dissolution Procedure initiated thereby shall be deemed terminated, (ii) the set of Related Partners that delivered such Dissolution Notice shall not be entitled to deliver another Dissolution Notice prior to the one-year anniversary of the end of such thirty (30)-day period and (iii) the other set of Related Partners shall have the right to initiate the Dissolution Procedure in accordance with Section 8.4(a). For the avoidance of doubt, (x) when the term "as of the Allocation Date" or any similar term is used in this Section 8.4, it shall mean prior to the opening of business or the occurrence of any event on the Allocation Date and (y) when the term "from and after the Allocation Date" or any similar term is used in this Section 8.4, the relevant period shall include all business and occurrences on the Allocation Date.
     (c) . After receipt of the Allocation Notice, the Non-Triggering Partners must select the Asset Pool to be distributed to them (or one or more of their designees) in connection with the Dissolution Procedure pursuant to Section 8.4(h) by delivering written notice to the Triggering Partners identifying the Asset Pool so selected (the "" and the Asset Pool not so selected shall be referred to as the ""). If the Non-Triggering Partners fail to make the selection provided for in the first sentence of this Section 8.4(c) within thirty (30) days after receipt of the Allocation Notice, the Triggering Partners shall have the right to select the Asset Pool to be distributed to them in connection with the Dissolution Procedure pursuant to Section 8.4(h) in which case such selected Asset Pool will be considered the Triggering Partners Pool and the Asset Pool not selected will be considered the Non-Triggering Partners Pool; , , that the Triggering Partners must make their Asset Pool selection within five (5) days of the expiration of such thirty (30) day period. If the Triggering Partners do not make such selection within such period, (i) the Dissolution Notice delivered by the Triggering Partners shall become void and have no further effect, and the Dissolution Procedure initiated thereby shall be deemed terminated, (ii) the set of Related Partners that delivered such Dissolution Notice shall not be entitled to deliver another Dissolution Notice prior to the one-year anniversary of the end of such thirty (30)-day period and (iii) the other set of Related Partners shall have the right to initiate the Dissolution Procedure in accordance with Section 8.4(a). For all purposes of this Agreement, the Triggering Partners Pool shall be considered to be intended to be distributed to the Triggering Partners and the Non-Triggering Partners Pool shall be considered to be intended to be distributed to the Non-Triggering Partners, in each case subject to the further terms in this Section 8.4, regardless of whether an Asset Pool is ultimately transferred to such set of Related Partners or to another Person or Persons.
Delivery of Selection Notice
Non-Triggering Partners Pool
Triggering Partners Pool
provided
however
     (d) . For purposes of the Dissolution Procedure, the Assets and Liabilities of the Partnership shall consist of two pools (each, an "") as follows: The "" shall consist of
Definition of Asset Pools
Asset Pool
Houston Asset Pool
 
(A) the Houston Business, (B) the amount of Debt allocated to the Houston Asset Pool by the Triggering Partners in the Allocation Notice (the ""), (C) 50% of the Shared Assets and (D) 50% of Other Liabilities, if any. The "" shall consist of (A) the Kansas & SW Business, (B) the amount of Debt allocated to the Kansas & SW Asset Pool by the Triggering Partners in the Allocation Notice (the ""), (C) 50% of the Shared Assets and (D) 50% of Other Liabilities, if any. For the avoidance of doubt, accrued but unpaid interest on Debt as of the Allocation Date will be included in Other Liabilities and will be shared equally in the Working Capital Amount for each Asset Pool in the manner described in the foregoing sentence. It is the understanding of the parties that, as of the Effective Time, there are no indivisible Shared Assets (other than books and records) and to the extent any exist on the first Distribution Date, the parties will reasonably cooperate (i) to allocate such indivisible Shared Assets to the Asset Pools and (ii) in the case of books and records, accommodate the non-recipient parties' need for access thereto. The Asset Pools shall be subject to changes arising from operation of the Asset Pools in accordance with the "closed system" principles as described in clause (e) below.
Houston Amount
Kansas & SW Asset Pool
Kansas & SW Amount
     (e) ." From and after the Allocation Date, each Asset Pool shall be operated as a "closed system" solely for the benefit of such Asset Pool and the set of Related Partners to whom such Asset Pool is intended to be distributed (such set of Related Partners with respect to such Asset Pool being referred to as the "" and the other set of Related Partners with respect to such Asset Pool being referred to as the ""), meaning that during such period (i) all Assets and Liabilities in an Asset Pool shall be solely for the account of the Receiving Partners of such Asset Pool, (ii) all Assets acquired, generated or disposed of, and all Liabilities incurred or satisfied by, the operations of an Asset Pool from and after the Allocation Date shall be solely for the account of such Asset Pool and the Receiving Partners of such Asset Pool, (iii) all cash generated by each Asset Pool shall remain for the account of such Asset Pool and all cash used by such Asset Pool shall be solely for the account of such Asset Pool, (iv) any additional funding required by such Asset Pool shall be supplied by the applicable Receiving Partners, subject to the requirements in the Funding Agreement (as defined in the Transaction Agreement), (v) any property contributed or loaned by any Related Partners to the Partnership or its Subsidiaries (including under the Funding Agreement) shall be for the sole account of the Asset Pool of such Related Partners, (vi) any new indebtedness incurred for the business of such Asset Pool shall be treated as Debt allocated to such Asset Pool, (vii) no Assets or Liabilities shall be transferred from the account of one Asset Pool to the other, except pursuant to Section 8.4(s); , that accounting entries to reflect cash management between an Asset Pool and the Partnership and its Subsidiaries so as to comply with the "closed system" principles of this Section 8.4(e) shall not be deemed transfers between the Asset Pools (for example, cash generated by an Asset Pool will create an intercompany account receivable for that Asset Pool (which shall be entitled to appropriate interest thereon) and an intercompany account payable for the Partnership or the General Manager (which shall be charged appropriate interest thereon) and cash utilized by
Operation as "Closed System
Receiving Partners
Non-Receiving Partners
provided
 
an Asset Pool will create an intercompany account payable for such Asset Pool (which shall be charged appropriate interest thereon) and an account receivable for the Partnership or the General Manager (which shall be entitled to appropriate interest thereon)); , that on the first Distribution Date, all such intercompany accounts shall be settled and if any Asset Pool has a net intercompany account payable balance, the Receiving Partners shall cause such account payable balance to be paid to the Partnership to satisfy the Non-Receiving Partners net account receivable balance in each case immediately prior to the distribution of such Asset Pool; and (viii) interest accruing from and after the Allocation Date on Debt allocated to a given Asset Pool will be treated as a Liability of that Asset Pool. Each Partner shall have access before and after the Dissolution Date to the books, records and personnel of the Partnership and its Subsidiaries to ensure compliance with the foregoing "closed system" provisions, subject to the same limitations as applicable under Section 5.2(f).
provided
further
     (f) . As soon as reasonably practicable after the date the selection is made pursuant to Section 8.4(c) (the ""), the Partnership and each Partner shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws and regulations to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Dissolution Procedure, including (i) preparing and filing as promptly as practicable with any governmental authority or other third party all documentation to effect all necessary filings, notices, petitions, statements, registrations, submissions of information, applications and other documents and (ii) obtaining and maintaining all approvals, consents, registrations, permits, authorizations and other confirmations required to be obtained from any governmental authority or other third party that are necessary, proper or advisable to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Dissolution Procedure. In furtherance of the foregoing, the parties shall (i) make appropriate filings of a Notification and Report Form pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 ("") no later than fifteen (15) business days after the Selection Date, (ii) make all necessary filings to obtain any required consents or waivers from the FCC no later than fifteen (15) business days after the Selection Date and (iii) make all necessary filings to obtain any required franchise approvals no later than twenty (20) business days after the Selection Date (the ""). The obligations of the parties to consummate the dissolution pursuant to the Dissolution Procedure shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions with respect to the transfer of an Asset Pool to the applicable Receiving Partners: (A) receipt of any required consents or waivers from the FCC to transfer licenses granted by the FCC, (B) expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the HSR Act, (C) at least 90% of the total subscribers of such Asset Pool shall belong to service areas for which either no franchise is required, no consent is necessary for the transfer of the franchise to the Receiving Partners or their designees or an effective consent reasonably acceptable to the Receiving Partners has been obtained or deemed to be obtained (it being understood that a consent shall be deemed reasonably acceptable if such consent does not require any material change be made to the relevant franchise agreement
Consent and Approvals
Selection Date
HSR Act
Filings Completion Date
 
or otherwise impose any material obligation on the transferor or transferee or their respective Affiliates), (D) receipt of all other necessary third-party and governmental consents and approvals, except where failure to obtain the consents and approvals referred to in this clause (D) would not have a material adverse effect on such Asset Pool, (E) all Debt allocated to such Asset Pool shall have been repaid or refinanced to the extent required under clause (g) below and (F) such other conditions as the parties may agree (the conditions set forth in clauses (A) through (F) with respect to any Asset Pool are hereinafter referred to as the "").
Conditions
     (g) . On or before the date (the "") that is sixty (60) days after the Selection Date, each set of Related Partners will cause all Debt on such date allocated to its Asset Pool to be refinanced (and each set of Related Partners shall bear its respective costs in connection therewith) to the extent such set of Related Partners desires, but in any event to the extent necessary so that, from and after the Refinancing Date, no Debt is outstanding which obligates or in any way binds or otherwise encumbers the Partnership, its Subsidiaries or the Asset Pool of the other set of Related Partners other than Debt that is expressly non-recourse to the Asset Pool of the other set of Related Partners (for the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall any Debt under the TCP Credit Agreement (as defined in the Transaction Agreement) be considered to be non-recourse to either Asset Pool). Each set of Related Partners will obtain appropriate documentation to evidence the release of the other set of Related Partners from all obligations relating to the Debt allocated to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the first set of Related Partners. In respect of all Debt existing on or incurred after the Refinancing Date, the set of Related Partners to whom such Debt is allocated shall do all things necessary (including fully satisfying and discharging such Debt to the extent required and bearing all costs in connection therewith) to facilitate the distribution of each of the Asset Pools on the Distribution Date and to obtain such assurances of the non-recourse nature of such Debt with respect to, and the lack of obligations of, or other encumbrances relating thereto on, the other set of Related Partners or the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to them as such other set of Related Partners shall from time to time reasonably request. On or prior to the Refinancing Date, any Debt owed to a Partner that has been allocated to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the other set of Related Partners shall be refinanced by such other set of Related Partners with such other set of Related Partners determining the date of such refinancing so long as it occurs on or prior to the Refinancing Date; , , that no Related Partner shall extend credit to its Asset Pool in connection with any refinancing described in this Section 8.4(g) (it being understood that this limitation shall in no way restrict an Affiliate of any Related Partner from making such an extension of credit, that such Affiliate is not a wholly-owned subsidiary of such Related Partner which is a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes).
Refinancing
Refinancing Date
provided
however
provided
(h) .
Distribution to Partners; Dissolution
     (i) Promptly after satisfaction of the Conditions for an Asset Pool, the Receiving Partners of such Asset Pool shall deliver a written
 
notice (a "") to the other Partners of the satisfaction of the Conditions (the date of delivery of such notice with respect to such Asset Pool, the "").
Conditions Notice
Satisfaction Date
     (ii) Upon the earlier of (A) the fifth day following the occurrence of the Satisfaction Date with respect to both Asset Pools or (B) the later of (x) 30 days following the first Satisfaction Date and (y) the date that is 27 months following the Filings Completion Date, each Asset Pool as to which a Satisfaction Date has occurred may, at the election of the Receiving Partners for such Asset Pool, in their sole discretion, be distributed to the Receiving Partners (or their designees) in complete redemption of their interests in the Partnership, subject to the last sentence of this clause (ii) (the date of such distribution with respect to an Asset Pool, the ""); that to the extent there exist Nonassignable Assets as of a given Distribution Date notwithstanding that the Receiving Partners will receive its Asset Pool as a distribution, such Receiving Partners will retain an Interest in the Partnership until all Nonassignable Assets are finally distributed or disposed of in accordance with Section 8.4(i) ; , that such Interest will not entitle the Receiving Partners to any right, title or interest in the Asset Pool of the other set of Related Partners. If the Satisfaction Date with respect to an Asset Pool has not occurred prior to the first Distribution Date, the Receiving Partners with respect to such Asset Pool may elect, at any time after such first Distribution Date, to treat all such Conditions with respect to its Asset Pool as having been satisfied. The Partners hereby agree that if the Distribution Date for an Asset Pool would occur on any day other than the last day of a calendar month, such Distribution Date shall be postponed until the last day of such month.
Distribution Date
provided
provided
further
     (iii) The Partnership shall continue until the affairs of the Partnership can be wound up and the Partnership dissolved in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware; that such winding up and dissolution shall not occur until both Asset Pools (or the proceeds from the sale thereof) have been distributed and all Nonassignable Assets have been distributed or otherwise disposed of in accordance Section 8.4(i) hereof (the date of dissolution of the Partnership being referred to as the "").
provided
Dissolution Date
     (iv) Following a Distribution Date with respect to an Asset Pool, the Non-Receiving Partners of such Asset Pool shall indemnify and hold the Receiving Partners harmless with respect to any and all Nonassignable Assets in the Asset Pool of such Non-Receiving Partners.
     (v) It is hereby understood and agreed that all references to "designees" in this Section 8.4 shall include Persons who receive or purchase any Assets of the Partnership pursuant to a distribution under this Section 8.4(h) other than the Receiving Partners of the Asset Pool to which
 
such Assets are allocated or pursuant to a sale in accordance with Section 8.4(x) , that such designee agrees in a writing with all Partners to be bound by all obligations to which such Receiving Partners would be bound if such Assets were distributed to such Receiving Partners in accordance with this Section 8.4. Such Receiving Partners may assign to any such designee any or all of their rights under this Partnership Agreement.
provided
     (vi) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event that on or after the date that is one (1) year following the Filings Completion Date (A) the Satisfaction Date with respect to an Asset Pool has occurred (such Asset Pool, the "" and the Receiving Partners thereof, the "") but (B) the Satisfaction Date with respect to the other Asset Pool has not occurred (the Receiving Partners of such other Asset Pool, the ""), then if the Satisfied Partners have a reasonable basis for concern that continued delay of the distribution of the Satisfied Asset Pool to the Satisfied Partners would risk the Conditions continuing to be satisfied in all material respects with respect to the Satisfied Asset Pool, the Satisfied Partners may deliver notice to the Delayed Partners describing such concern and the basis therefor in reasonable detail and request a waiver of the 27 month period in clause (ii) of this Section 8.4(h) as a condition to the distribution of the Satisfied Asset Pool (a ""). The Delayed Partners may elect, in their sole discretion, to grant the Distribution Waiver; , that if the Distribution Waiver is not granted within ten (10) calendar days of such request, then the Delayed Partners will indemnify and hold harmless the Satisfied Partners and their Affiliates for all reasonable costs and expenses (if any) incurred thereafter and associated with further attempts by the Satisfied Partners to maintain the effectiveness of such Conditions.
Satisfied Asset Pool
Satisfied Partners
Delayed Partners
Distribution Waiver
provided
     (i) . Notwithstanding Section 8.4(h), any Asset, the conveyance, assignment or transfer of which without the consent, authorization, approval or waiver of a third party would constitute a breach or other contravention of such Asset or in any way adversely affect the rights of the Partnership, any of its Subsidiaries or the Partners thereunder (a ""), shall not be conveyed, assigned or transferred until such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained, at which time such Nonassignable Asset shall be deemed conveyed, assigned or transferred without further action on the part of the Partnership, any of its Subsidiaries or any of the Partners. Until such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained, (i) the Partnership and the Partners shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the relevant consent, authorization, approval or waiver, (ii) the Partnership shall endeavor to provide the applicable Receiving Partners with the benefits under each Nonassignable Asset as if such Nonassignable Asset had been assigned to the Receiving Partners, including preserving the benefits of and enforcing for the benefit of the Receiving Partners, at their expense, any and all rights of the Partnership or any of its Subsidiaries under such Nonassignable Asset and (iii) to the extent permissible under such
Nonassignable Assets
Nonassignable Asset
 
Nonassignable Asset, the Receiving Partners shall (A) be responsible for the obligations of the Partnership or its Subsidiaries under such Nonassignable Asset and (B) act as the agent of the Partnership or its Subsidiaries in preserving the benefits of and enforcing any and all rights of the Partnership or its Subsidiaries in such Nonassignable Asset. The Receiving Partners shall indemnify the Partnership, its Subsidiaries and the General Manager in respect of any Damages suffered or incurred by the Partnership, any of its Subsidiaries or the General Manager as a result of the operation of this Section 8.4(i) or the General Manager's responsibilities with respect to the Nonassignable Assets. The Partnership and its Subsidiaries shall promptly pay to the Receiving Partners when received all monies received by them in respect of any Nonassignable Asset or any claim or right or any benefit arising thereunder. Notwithstanding Section 8.4(h), the Partnership shall not be dissolved until all Nonassignable Assets have been properly assigned, conveyed and transferred.
     (j) . From and after the first Distribution Date, (i) the non-compete set forth in Section 6.2 shall remain in effect, for one year after the first Distribution Date, for each set of Related Partners and its Cable Affiliates only as to the municipalities included in the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the other set of Related Partners and (ii) the confidentiality obligations set forth in Section 6.3 shall remain in effect for each set of Related Partners only as to matters relating to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the other set of Related Partners.
Certain Covenants
     (k) .
Employee Matters
     (i) In connection with the Dissolution Procedure, each set of Related Partners shall have the right (but not the obligation) to make, in the case of the Comcast Partners, an offer of employment and, in the case of the TWI Partners, an offer of continued employment, to any Specified Division Employee, in each case effective as of the first Distribution Date. If any Specified Division Employee accepts an offer of employment with any Comcast Partner (or the designees of the Comcast Partners) and prior to the first Distribution Date such Specified Division Employee's duties primarily concerned the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners, then such Comcast Partner shall (or shall cause the designees of the Comcast Partners to) assign such Specified Division Employee to provide such transitional services as reasonably requested by the TWI Partners (or their designees) for a period of up to three (3) months following the first Distribution Date. Similarly, if any Specified Division Employee accepts an offer of employment with any TWI Partner (or the designees of the TWI Partners) and prior to the first Distribution Date such Specified Division Employee's duties primarily concerned the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners, then such TWI Partner shall (or shall cause the designees of the TWI Partners to) assign such Specified Division Employee to provide to the Comcast Partners (or their designees) such transitional services as reasonably requested by the Comcast Partners (or
 
their designees) for a period of up to three (3) months following the first Distribution Date. Any set of Related Partners receiving transitional services under either of the preceding sentences shall pay the reasonable costs relating to the applicable Specified Division Employee(s).
     (ii) In connection with the Dissolution Procedure, effective as of the first Distribution Date, the Comcast Partners shall (or shall cause their designees to) offer employment, effective as of the first Distribution Date, to all Comcast Selected Employees (as defined below) who are employed as of the first Distribution Date. As of the first Distribution Date, all Comcast Selected Employees shall cease to be employees of TWE-A/N, TWE or any of their respective Affiliates, as the case may be. Except as contemplated by the following sentence, as of the first Distribution Date, all of the Assets and Liabilities of the Partnership, TWE-A/N, TWE or any of their respective Affiliates relating to the Comcast Selected Employees shall be transferred to the Comcast Partners (or their designees) and all Assets or Liabilities relating to the TWI Selected Employees shall be transferred to (or retained by) the TWI Partners (or their designees). To the extent that a tax-qualified defined benefit plan or tax-qualified defined contribution plan covers Comcast Selected Employees, the Related Partners who are Affiliates of TWI, or any subsequent Permitted Transferee of their Interests, (the "") may choose to retain any such plan's Assets and Liabilities for such Comcast Selected Employees, and in such case the employee matters agreement referred to in Section 8.4(l) below shall set forth appropriate arrangements to achieve the economic results in accordance with the principles contemplated herein; , that if the Assets and Liabilities for the tax-qualified defined contribution plan with respect to the Comcast Selected Employees are not transferred to the Comcast Partners (or their designees), then the Comcast Partners shall (or shall cause their designees to) permit such Comcast Selected Employees to make a "direct rollover" of their account balances under such plan to a tax-qualified defined contribution plan sponsored by one of the Comcast Partners (or their designees), and the Comcast Partners and the TWI Partners shall reasonably cooperate in good faith to effect such distributions and rollovers within a reasonably practicable time after the first Distribution Date. Except as otherwise contemplated by the preceding sentence, all Liabilities related to an Asset Pool Employee shall, for the avoidance of doubt, be considered Liabilities primarily related to such Asset Pool. "" means all Asset Pool Employees of the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners. "" means all Asset Pool Employees of the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners. The Comcast Partners and the TWI Partners shall reasonably cooperate in good faith to minimize any costs associated with any termination of any Asset Pool Employees by their respective Affiliates in connection with the Dissolution Procedure. From and after the date of the Dissolution Notice until the first Distribution Date, the General Manager shall not remove any divisional vice presidents or
TWI Partners
provided
Comcast Selected Employees
TWI Selected Employees
 
presidents, and shall not transfer employment duties of the employees providing services to the Asset Pool to be distributed to the Comcast Partners from (i) such Asset Pool to (ii) the other Asset Pool or another Affiliate of TWI (or from (ii) to (i)) without the consent of the Comcast Partners, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld; that, after the Selection Date so long as such employees are not transferred to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners, the restriction on removals will not apply to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners. The parties agree to take the position for all Income Tax purposes, unless required to do otherwise as a result of a Final Determination or a change in applicable law (including a revenue ruling or other similar pronouncement) that (i) Comcast or one of its Affiliates shall be entitled to claim any net Income Tax deductions that were not deductible in periods (or portions thereof) as of the Allocation Date attributable to Liabilities relating to Comcast Selected Employees (including with respect to option reimbursement obligations under this Agreement or the KCCP Management Agreement for options issued but not exercised as of the Allocation Date), and (ii) TWI or one of its Affiliates shall be entitled to claim any net Income Tax deductions that were not deductible in periods (or portions thereof) as of the Allocation Date attributable to Liabilities relating to TWI Selected Employees (including with respect to option reimbursement obligations under this Agreement or the KCCP Management Agreement for options issued but not exercised as of the Allocation Date).
provided
     (l) . The Partners, any of their designees, the Partnership and the Subsidiaries, as appropriate, will execute and deliver, in each case as of the Distribution Date with respect to an Asset Pool, (i) appropriate assignment agreements to effectuate the transfer of applicable Assets to the Receiving Partners (or their designees), (ii) appropriate assumption agreements pursuant to which the Receiving Partners (or their designees) will assume all Liabilities attributable to the Asset Pool being distributed to them and (iii) appropriate indemnities to the other set of Related Partners for any losses such Partners may suffer with respect to any of such Liabilities assumed by the Receiving Partners. In connection with the Dissolution Procedure, each set of Related Partners will execute (or cause their designees to execute) an appropriate employee matters agreement to facilitate an orderly transfer of employment of the Asset Pool Employees and a smooth transition of related employee compensation and benefit plans, programs and arrangements in accordance with the principles described herein (except as may be otherwise agreed by the parties to such employee matters agreement). Such agreement shall include, without limitation, a mutual non-solicitation provision that extends for one year beyond the first Distribution Date. In connection with the Dissolution Procedure, each set of Related Partners will also execute (or cause their designees to execute) other agreements and instruments reasonably necessary to ensure an orderly winding up of the affairs of the Partnership and its Subsidiaries, including customary agreements providing for cooperation with respect to post-dissolution tax audits and controversies, sharing of information, record retention, and defense of third-
Distribution Date Documentation
 
party claims. The Partnership will cause the General Manager to, and each set of Related Partners will, provide, on commercially reasonable terms and conditions to be agreed among the relevant parties, any transitional services requested by a set of Related Partners (including, but not limited to, billing, customer service and high speed data) and other transitional items (such as use of trademarks) for the Systems included in the Asset Pool to be distributed to such Related Partners (or their designees), for a period beginning on the first Distribution Date and ending a reasonable period after the first Distribution Date. Any commercial agreement or arrangement (which, for the avoidance of doubt, would not include (i) any Transaction Document (as defined in the Transaction Agreement), (ii) the Partnership Agreement, (iii) the Contribution Agreement and (iv) any agreement entered into in connection with the Dissolution Procedure as contemplated hereunder) between the Partnership or its Subsidiaries (or that otherwise applies to the Partnership or its Subsidiaries), on the one hand, and any of the TWI Partners or their Affiliates on the other hand, that would bind the Systems intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners following the first Distribution Date shall terminate without penalty as to such Systems no later than 120 days following the first Distribution Date. In the event designees are used as set forth in this Section 8.4(l), the relevant Related Partners shall be jointly and severally liable with its designees for the obligations of the designees under the foregoing agreements. The Partners and their applicable Affiliates will negotiate in good faith and agree on the form of the agreements referred to in this Section 8.4(l) prior to December 31, 2004. Each Partner agrees that they will cooperate in good faith in effectuating transactions contemplated by the Dissolution Procedure, and will not take actions for the purpose of interfering with the Dissolution Procedure.
     (m) . After the HSR Date in respect of any given group of Systems (the ""), neither the Partnership nor the KCCP Trust shall have any further obligation to pay the General Manager any management fees payable pursuant to the first sentence of Section 6 of the Management Agreement or the KCCP Management Agreement, as the case may be, with respect to the Relevant Systems other than (i) management fees in respect of services provided by the General Manager to the Partnership or the KCCP Trust prior to such expiration or termination of waiting periods under the HSR Act and (ii) in respect of the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the TWI Partners. After the HSR Date with respect to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners, subject to all applicable laws, including without limitation all applicable rules, regulations and orders of the FCC, each set of Related Partners shall have the right to (x) cause the Partnership to terminate the provision of one or more services by the General Manager under the existing Management Agreement and/or the KCCP Management Agreement, as the case may be, to the extent the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to such Related Partners (or their designees) includes Systems under management in such agreement(s) and (y) engage such Related Partners or any of their Affiliates or designees to provide such services to such Relevant Systems pursuant to a management agreement (a "") on terms and conditions substantially similar to those in the Management Agreement or the KCCP Management Agreement, as applicable (it
Management Agreements
Relevant Systems
New Management Agreement
 
being understood that to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, the Comcast Partners shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide all such services (other than as relates to national programming) as soon as possible following the HSR Date); , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, at all times prior to the first Distribution Date the General Manager shall continue to have control over all accounting functions and over the books and records of both Asset Pools and access to all information and employees sufficient to comply with all Debt reporting requirements and the "closed system" accounting required by Section 8.4(e); , that if either set of Related Partners exercises any such rights to change the management of the Partnership prior to the first Distribution Date as set forth in this Section 8.4(m) such set of Related Partners, and the Ultimate Parent of such set of Related Partners, will first provide an indemnity to the other set of Related Partners for any Damages such other Related Partners (or any of their Affiliates, officers, directors or employees) may suffer arising out of a breach or alleged breach of any legal or contractual obligation or violation of applicable law resulting from the change in management of the Partnership prior to the first Distribution Date, on terms reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified parties. In connection with any such change or termination, the TWI Partners will cause the current General Manager to provide reasonable cooperation, subject to applicable law. For the period from and after the Allocation Date, any obligation under Section 5 of the Management Agreement to reimburse the General Manager for direct out-of-pocket expenses and any management fees payable under Section 6 of the Management Agreement (as modified above), in each case that are attributable to the Houston Asset Pool shall be allocated to and borne by the Houston Asset Pool. For the period from and after the Allocation Date, any obligation under Section 5 of the Management Agreement or the KCCP Management Agreement to reimburse the General Manager for direct out-of-pocket expenses and any management fees payable under Section 6 of the Management Agreement or the KCCP Management Agreement (as modified above), in each case that are attributable to the Kansas & SW Asset Pool shall be allocated to and borne by the Kansas & SW Asset Pool. The provisions of the preceding two sentences shall similarly apply to any fees and expenses payable under any New Management Agreement. The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that except as otherwise provided herein, all of the terms and conditions of the Management Agreement and the KCCP Management Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until the Dissolution Date, at which time they shall automatically terminate. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, and notwithstanding any termination of the Management Agreement, or the KCCP Management Agreement, or the redemption of a Partner's Interests under this Section 8.4, all Liabilities with respect to Comcast Selected Employees as of the first Distribution Date (including with respect to option reimbursement obligations under this Agreement or the KCCP Management Agreement for options issued but not exercised prior to such date) shall continue as Liabilities of the Comcast Partners (or their designees) to TWE and its Affiliates, as applicable, until fully satisfied and discharged in accordance with the reimbursement terms applicable prior to the first Distribution Date.
provided
further
provided
further
 
     (n) .
Special Allocations; Dissolution of Partnership for Income Tax Purposes
     (i) All income, gain, loss, deduction and other tax items with respect to the Asset Pools shall be allocated to the Partners for Income Tax purposes based on an actual closing of the Partnership's books as of the Allocation Date. For Income Tax purposes, all income, gain, losses, deductions and other tax items attributable to the Houston Asset Pool for the period beginning on the Allocation Date and ending on the date immediately preceding the Selection Date shall be allocated to the Partners to whom the Houston Asset Pool is to be distributed, and all income, gain, losses, deductions and other tax items attributable to the Kansas & SW Asset Pool for any period beginning on the Allocation Date and ending on the date immediately preceding the Selection Date shall be allocated to the Partners to whom the Kansas & SW Asset Pool is to be distributed.
     (ii) From the Allocation Date to the date immediately preceding the Selection Date, no distributions shall be made to any Partner.
     (iii) On the Selection Date, the Assets comprising the Asset Pools shall for all Income Tax purposes be treated as having been distributed on the Selection Date to the Partners to whom such Asset Pools are intended to be distributed in complete redemption of such Partners' Interest in the Partnership.
     (iv) The Partners agree to take the position for all Income Tax purposes that the two Asset Pools are not operated as a partnership at any time on or after the Selection Date, unless required to do otherwise as a result of a Final Determination or a change in applicable law (including a revenue ruling or other similar pronouncement) that causes the two Asset Pools to be operated as a partnership for such purposes. In furtherance of the foregoing, the parties agree to the following, each with effect from and after the Selection Date:
     (i) The Partnership shall be permitted to make cash distributions to any set of Related Partners from the Asset Pool to be distributed to such set of Related Partners or their designees (such Asset Pool in relation to such set of Related Partners and their designees being referred to as the "" and such Related Partners and their designees shall be referred to as the ""). The Partnership shall not be permitted to distribute Assets other than cash except in accordance with Section 8.4(h) hereof;
Applicable Asset Pool
Applicable Related Partners
     (ii) No Related Partners shall share in any portion of any item of income, gain, loss, deduction or other tax
 
items attributable to an Asset Pool other than the Applicable Asset Pool; and
     (iii) All items of income, gain, loss, deduction and other tax items attributable to an Asset Pool shall be treated as derived directly by the Applicable Related Partners (and not through an interest in the Partnership) for all Income Tax purposes, except as may be required as a result of a Final Determination or a change in applicable law (including a revenue ruling or other similar pronouncement) that causes the two Asset Pools to be operated as a partnership for such purposes.
     (v) In the event of a Final Determination or a change in applicable law (including a revenue ruling or other similar pronouncement) that causes the two Asset Pools to be operated as a partnership on or after the Selection Date for any Income Tax purpose, then all income, gain, loss, deduction and other tax items attributable to each Asset Pool shall be allocated 100% to the Applicable Related Partners. For the avoidance of doubt, in such case, all income, gain, losses, deductions and other tax items attributable to the disposition of all or a portion of an Asset Pool shall be allocated to the Receiving Partners that are entitled to receive the proceeds of such disposition.
     (o) . In the event that there is an adjustment by a taxing authority to any item of income, gain, loss, deduction or other tax item attributable to a taxable period of the Partnership or any of its Subsidiaries (the ""), (i) if the Adjusted Partnership Item relates to any taxable period prior to the Allocation Date, the Adjusted Partnership Item shall be allocated to the Partners in accordance with Section 3.4 of the Partnership Agreement; and (ii) if the Adjusted Partnership Item relates to any taxable period from and after the Allocation Date, such Adjusted Partnership Item shall be allocated in accordance with Section  8.4(n).
Adjustments to Allocations
Adjusted Partnership Item
     (p) . No later than ninety (90) days following delivery of the Allocation Notice (the ""), the General Manager will deliver to each Partner (i) a consolidating balance sheet for the Partnership (the ""), reflecting all Assets and Liabilities in each Asset Pool (and showing each Asset Pool separately), in each case as prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied by the Partnership, (ii) based on the foregoing, the Working Capital Amount (as defined below) for each Asset Pool and (iii) appropriate documentation supporting such calculation, in each case as of the Allocation Date.
Delivery of Balance Sheet
Delivery Date
Balance Sheet
     (q) . If the Comcast Partners disagree with the General Manager's calculation of the Working Capital Amount for either Asset Pool delivered pursuant to Section 8.4(p), the Comcast Partners may, within one
Notice of Disagreement
 
hundred and twenty (120) days after the Delivery Date, deliver a notice to the General Manager and the other set of Related Partners disagreeing with such calculation and setting forth the Comcast Partners' calculation of such amount. Any such notice of disagreement shall specify those items or amounts as to which the Comcast Partners disagree, and the Comcast Partners shall be deemed to have agreed with all other items and amounts contained in the calculations of the Working Capital Amount for each Asset Pool delivered to them pursuant to Section 8.4(p).
     (r) . If a notice of disagreement shall be duly delivered pursuant to Section 8.4(q), the Partners shall, during the thirty (30) days following such delivery, use their best efforts to reach agreement on the disputed items or amounts. If during such period, the Partners are unable to reach such agreement, they shall promptly jointly retain a nationally recognized accounting firm that is not the principal independent accountant of the Partnership, the Ultimate Parent of either set of Related Partners (the "") to resolve the disputed items or amounts. In making its calculations, the Accounting Referee shall consider only those items or amounts as to which the Partners have disagreed and, with respect to each item or amount, shall select a number within the range of the dispute between the Partners. The Accounting Referee shall deliver to the Partners, as promptly as practicable (but, in any event, within thirty (30) days after submission of the dispute to it), a report setting forth its resolution of the disputed items. Such report shall be final and binding upon the Partners. The costs of the Accounting Referee shall be shared equally by the Triggering Partners and the Non-Triggering Partners. The General Manager will, and will cause the Partnership's independent accountants to, cooperate and assist the Partners in conducting their review of the calculations of the Working Capital Amounts referred to herein, including without limitation, making available to the extent necessary any books, records, work papers and personnel (it being understood that if the process of finally determining the Working Capital Amounts continues after the Dissolution Date, the Partners thereafter will also provide each other such cooperation and assistance).
Resolution of Disputed Items
Accounting Referee
     (s) . Once a final determination of all disputed amounts is reached, the Partners will determine whether any adjusting payment needs to be made, if such disputed amounts are resolved prior to the first Distribution Date, between the Asset Pools, or if such disputed amounts are resolved after the first Distribution Date, between the Triggering Partners and the Non-Triggering Partners, such that (i) the Working Capital Amount for the Triggering Partners Pool as of the Allocation Date, increased by any payment received by (or decreased by any payment made by) the Triggering Partners or the Triggering Partners Pool under this Section 8.4(s), equals (ii) the Working Capital Amount for the Non-Triggering Partners Pool as of the Allocation Date, increased by any payment received by (or decreased by any payment made by) the Non-Triggering Partners or the Non-Triggering Partners Pool under this Section 8.4(s). The parties hereby acknowledge and agree that appropriate adjustments shall also be made to reflect any transfers of Specified Division Employees from one Asset
Working Capital Adjustment Payments
 
Pool to the other between the Allocation Date and the first Distribution Date and the resulting shift in Assets and Liabilities related to such transferred Specified Division Employees. Any payment pursuant to this Section 8.4(s) shall be made at a mutually convenient time and place within three (3) days after such final determination. The amount of any payment to be made pursuant to this Section 8.4(s) shall bear interest from and including the Allocation Date to and including the date of payment at a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; that such interest will be disregarded for purposes of the first sentence of this Section 8.4(s).
provided
     (t) . The Partnership, the Triggering Partners and the Non-Triggering Partners shall for all Income Tax purposes treat any amounts paid pursuant to Section 8.4(s), other than any payment that is designated as interest pursuant to such Section 8.4(s), (i) as having been part of the Asset Pool (the "") which is entitled to receive such amounts (or, in the case of amounts paid pursuant to Section 8.4(s) after the first Distribution Date, as part of the Asset Pool which has been or is intended to be distributed, as applicable, to the Partner that is entitled to receive such amounts) pursuant to Section 8.4(s) as of the Allocation Date, and (ii) as not being part of the Asset Pool (the "") which is required to pay such amounts (or, in the case of amounts paid pursuant to Section 8.4(s) after the first Distribution Date, as not being part of the Asset Pool which has been or is intended to be distributed, as applicable, to the Partner that is required to pay such amounts) pursuant to Section 8.4(s) as of the Allocation Date. The Partnership, the Triggering Partners and the Non-Triggering Partners agree for all tax purposes that, with respect to any payment pursuant to Section 8.4(s) that is designated as interest, (i) to the extent that such interest is attributable to periods ending on the date immediately preceding the Selection Date, notwithstanding Section 8.4(n) hereof, a corresponding amount of income shall be allocated to the Partners to whom the Payee Asset Pool is intended to be distributed and a corresponding amount of deduction shall be allocated to the Partners to whom the Payor Asset Pool is intended to be distributed, and (ii) to the extent such interest is attributable to periods beginning on or after the Selection Date, such interest shall be treated as being paid directly to the Partners to whom the Payee Asset Pool has been or is intended to be distributed, as applicable, by the Partners to whom the Payor Asset Pool has been or is intended to be distributed, as applicable. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8.4(t), no person shall be required to treat any of the items described in this Section 8.4(t) in the manner prescribed herein if there is a Final Determination or a change in applicable law (including a revenue ruling or other similar pronouncement) that causes any such amount not to be so treated for tax purposes.
Tax Treatment of Adjustment Payments and Interest
Payee Asset Pool
Payor Asset Pool
     (u) . The "" for each Asset Pool shall equal the amount of current Assets (other than inventory) of such Asset Pool, less the amount of all Liabilities (other than Debt) of such Asset Pool, in each case as would be reflected on the face of a balance sheet
Definition of Working Capital Amount
Working Capital Amount
 
(excluding any footnotes thereto) prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied by the Partnership. Current Assets shall include, but shall not be limited to, all cash and cash equivalents, prepaid expenses, funds on deposit with third parties, and accounts receivable other than (i) the portion of any account receivable resulting from cable, telephony, data or internet service sales that is sixty (60) days or more past due as of the Allocation Date, (ii) the portion of any national agency account receivable resulting from advertising sales that is one hundred and twenty (120) days or more past due as of the Allocation Date, (iii) any non-national agency account receivable resulting from advertising sales any portion of which is ninety (90) days or more past due as of the Allocation Date, (iv) accounts receivable from customers whose accounts are inactive as of the Allocation Date or (v) any accounts receivable that have not arisen from a bona fide transaction in the ordinary course of business. For purposes of making the foregoing "past due" calculations, the billing statements of a System will be deemed to be due and payable on the first day of the period during which the service is provided to which such billing statements relate. Liabilities shall include, but shall not be limited to, accounts payable, accrued expenses (including all accrued Income Taxes and non-Income Taxes payable by the Partnership or any of its Subsidiaries, and including accrued copyright fees, programming expenses, franchise fees and other license fees or charges), capitalized lease obligations, unearned income and advance payments (including subscriber prepayments and deposits for converters, encoders, cable television service and related sales) and interest, if any, required to be paid on advance payments. For purposes of this Section 8.4(u), in the case of any taxes with respect to an Asset Pool that are imposed on a periodic basis and are payable for a tax period that includes (but does not end on) the Allocation Date, the portion of such tax related to the portion of such tax period ending as of the Allocation Date shall (x) in the case of any taxes other than gross receipts, sales or use taxes and Income Taxes, be deemed to be the amount of such tax for the entire tax period multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of days in the tax period ending on and including the day prior to the Allocation Date and the denominator of which is the number of days in the entire tax period and (y) in the case of any Income Taxes and any gross receipts, sales or use tax, be deemed equal to the amount which would be payable if the relevant tax period ended as of the Allocation Date. All determinations necessary to give effect to the allocation set forth in the foregoing clause (y) shall be made in a manner consistent with prior practice of the Partnership and its Subsidiaries.
     (v) . The Partners agree to cooperate in good faith to minimize the amount of income, if any, recognized by any of them and/or by the Partnership as a result of any actual or deemed distribution of Partnership Assets or allocation of Partnership Liabilities in connection with the Dissolution Procedure, including, without limitation, pursuant to an agreement similar to that described in Treas. Reg. Section 1.751-1(g) Example (3)(c) specifying the particular items of property (if any) deemed exchanged.
Cooperation
 
     (w) . Except as otherwise provided herein, any costs incurred by the Partnership in connection with the Dissolution Procedure shall be shared equally by the Triggering Partners and the Non-Triggering Partners, including without limitation all applicable sales, value added, transfer stamp, registration, documentary, excise, real property transfer or gains, or similar taxes, if any, including, for the avoidance of doubt, any interest, fines, assessments, penalties or additions to tax imposed in connection therewith or respect thereto, on or in respect of the Dissolution Procedure; that each set of Related Partners shall be responsible for the costs of its own legal counsel and the costs associated with refinancing any Debt allocated to the Asset Pool to be distributed to such set of Related Partners.
Expenses
provided
     (x) .
Right of First Offer
     (i) If at any time following the date that is nine (9) months after the Filings Completion Date and prior to the distribution of an Asset Pool to the Receiving Partners of such Asset Pool or their Affiliates (the ""), such Receiving Partners desire the Partnership to Transfer all or any portion of the Assets (the "") in such Asset Pool or any direct or indirect equity interest therein to any Person other than such Receiving Partners or their Affiliates, such Receiving Partners (the "") shall (or shall cause the Partnership to) first offer to sell such Transfer Assets on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Section 8.4(x), by giving written notice thereof (the "") to the other Partners or, if applicable, to the Persons who were, immediately prior to the first Distribution Date, the other Partners (the ""). A Dissolution Offer Notice shall specify: (i) the price for the Transfer Assets subject to the Dissolution Offer Notice; (ii) the types of currency (and terms of, if applicable) for payment of such price, which currency may consist only of cash; the assumption of liabilities; debt; common stock; preferred stock; convertible preferred stock; or such other corporate security that (1) is generally accepted by the financial community for use in acquisition transactions and (2) may be replicated by the Dissolution Offeree Partners or its Affiliates (it being expressly understood that securities are to be described in terms replicable by any third party regardless of the identity of the particular issuer); and (iii) all other material terms of the proposed offer to sell, including, without limitation, whether such transaction is to be tax-advantaged or tax-deferred, and all conditions to closing.
Dissolution Offer Period
Transfer Assets
Dissolution Offering Partners
Dissolution Offer Notice
Dissolution Offeree Partners
     (ii) If the Dissolution Offeree Partners do not accept within forty-five (45) days the offer set forth in the Dissolution Offer Notice (a ""), then at the time of the lapse of such period for acceptance and subject to compliance with the time frames set forth in this Section 8.4(x) for execution of definitive agreements, the Dissolution Offering Partners may cause the Partnership to sell Transfer Assets subject to the
Waiver
 
Dissolution Offer Notice to a third party that is not an Affiliate of the Dissolution Offering Partners on terms and conditions determined by the Dissolution Offering Partners; that such sale or transfer is:
provided
     (1) for the types of currency specified in the Dissolution Offer Notice and in at least ninety-five percent (95%) of the minimum amount of each such type of currency set forth in the Dissolution Offer Notice;
     (2) at a price equal to or greater than ninety-five percent (95%) of the price specified in the Dissolution Offer Notice; and
     (3) on substantially all of the other material terms specified in the Dissolution Offer Notice, including the conditions to closing.
     (iii) If the Partnership does not sign definitive agreements for such a sale pursuant to this Section 8.4(x) within 180 days of the Dissolution Partner Offerees's Waiver, then the provisions of this Section 8.4(x) shall again be applicable; that at any point during such 180-day-period, the Dissolution Offering Partner may submit a new Dissolution Offer Notice and restart the process under this Section 8.4(x); , that if such new Dissolution Offer Notice is not materially different than the prior notice, except as to price, and such price is lower than the price in the prior Dissolution Offer Notice, then the period of time for the Dissolution Offeree Partners to accept the offer set forth in the Dissolution Offer Notice under Section 8.4(x)(ii) with respect thereto shall be deemed to be fifteen (15) days.
provided
provided
further
     (iv) If the Dissolution Offeree Partners accept, within the time period set forth in Section 8.4(x)(ii) above, the offer set forth in the Dissolution Offer Notice, upon such acceptance, the terms of such accepted offer shall become binding upon the parties. The Dissolution Offering Partners, the Partnership and the Dissolution Offeree Partners shall negotiate in good faith to enter into more formal agreements within forty-five (45) days of such acceptance, but it is understood and agreed that the terms of the accepted offer shall be binding upon the parties and the transaction shall be consummated on the terms set forth in such accepted offer, including being subject to satisfaction of all conditions therein. At any time prior to the acceptance by the Dissolution Offeree Partners of an offer set forth in a Dissolution Offer Notice, the Dissolution Offering Partners may cause the Partnership to distribute their Asset Pool to them or their Affiliates in accordance with and subject to Section 8.4(h), and in such event, such offer shall be void and of no further force or effect.
 
     (v) The Dissolution Offeree Partners may assign their rights under this Section 8.4(x) to their Ultimate Parent or any of its Affiliates by delivering written notice of such assignment to the Partnership and the Offeror Partners; , that no such assignment shall relieve the Dissolution Offeree Partners of their obligations under this Section 8.4(x).
provided
     (vi) The Partners and the General Manager shall cooperate in good faith with any attempt to sell Transfer Assets, including by providing reasonable access to books and records subject to the limitations described in Section 5.2(f). The Dissolution Offering Partners shall indemnify and hold harmless the Partnership and its Subsidiaries, the General Manager and the other Partners and their respective Affiliates (the "") for any Damages related to or arising out of sale or attempted sale of Transfer Assets, including all reasonable costs and expenses of negotiations with third parties, and shall cause all representations, warranties and indemnities to be non-recourse to all Non-Selling Indemnified Parties. Subject to the foregoing, the Partnership and its Subsidiaries shall execute such documents in connection with such sale or transfer as the Dissolution Offering Partners reasonably request.
Non-Selling Indemnified Parties
     (vii) For the avoidance of doubt, any and all proceeds of the Sale of Transfer Assets shall be allocated to the Asset Pool of the Dissolution Offering Partners and distributed to them as promptly as possible.
     (y) . TWE and TWE-A/N, jointly and severally, shall indemnify and hold harmless the Comcast Partners and their Affiliates for any Damages incurred by the Comcast Partners arising from or relating to any ISP Agreement or any capacity use agreement (excluding those capacity use agreements (but not ISP Agreements) relating specifically to Systems within only one Asset Pool) unless it may be terminated without penalty with respect to the Systems in the Asset Pool intended to be distributed under Section 8.4 to the Comcast Partners within 120 days following the first Distribution Date, in each case, except to the extent the Comcast Partners expressly agree not to so terminate such ISP Agreement or capacity use agreement. Such Damages shall include any Damages arising from the failure or alleged failure of the Comcast Partners or their designees to perform any obligations they may have thereunder.
ISP Indemnity

 
Exhibit 10.12
          AMENDMENT No. 5 (this "") TO THE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT OF TEXAS AND KANSAS CITY CABLE PARTNERS, L.P. (the ""), dated as of February 28, 2005, among Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership (""), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company (""), TCI Texas Cable, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company formerly known as TCI Texas Cable, Inc. (""), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), Comcast TCP Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), TCI of Overland Park, Inc., a Kansas corporation (""), and Comcast TCP Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("") as successor in interest to Overland Park.
Amendment
Partnership
TWE-A/N
TWE-A/N GP
TCI
TCI GP
TWE
LCM LLC
Overland Park
Comcast Newco
          WHEREAS the Partnership was formed by TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP pursuant to a Limited Partnership Agreement, dated as of June 23, 1998 (the "");
Original TCP Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Original TCP Agreement was amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of December 11, 1998, Amendment No. 2 thereto, dated as of May 16, 2000, Amendment No. 3 thereto, dated as of August 23, 2000, and Amendment No. 4 thereto, dated as of May 1, 2004 (as amended, the "");
Partnership Agreement
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 3(b) of that certain Agreement of Merger and Transaction Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2003 and amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 19, 2003 (as amended, the ""), among the Partnership, Kansas City Cable Partners, formerly a Colorado general partnership, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TWE, TCI, TCI GP, TCI of Missouri, Inc. (formerly known as Liberty Cable of Missouri, Inc.), a Missouri corporation, LCM LLC, Overland Park, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) thereof), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) thereof), TWE and TWE-A/N have executed and delivered a Contribution Agreement dated as of the date hereof pursuant to which, among other things, TWE has contributed 100% of its Interest in the Partnership to TWE-A/N in exchange for preferred interests in TWE-A/N (all such actions, the "");
Transaction Agreement
TWE Transfer
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 3(c) of the Transaction Agreement (or as otherwise consented to by TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP and TWE), (i) Overland Park and Comcast Newco have executed and delivered a Contribution Agreement dated as of February 28, 2005 pursuant to which among other things Overland Park has contributed 100% of its Interest in the Partnership to Comcast Newco, (ii) Comcast has caused TCI GP to become a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes and (iii) Comcast has
 
2
caused 100% of the membership interests of TCI GP to be contributed to Comcast Newco (all such actions, the ""); and
Second Comcast Restructuring
          WHEREAS, the parties hereto wish to amend the Partnership Agreement to reflect the TWE Transfer and the Second Comcast Restructuring.
          In consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree to amend the Partnership Agreement as follows:
     
A. 
AMENDMENTS TO PREAMBLE AND ARTICLE I (DEFINITIONS)
          1. . The first paragraph of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the phrase "TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation" with "TCI Texas Cable, LLC, a Colorado limited liability company formerly known as TCI Texas Cable, Inc."
Preamble
          2. . Section 1.1 (Definitions) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the following definitions in their entirety: "Cable Affiliates"; "KCCP Contribution Agreement"; "Limited Partner"; "Related Partners"; and "Transaction Agreement".
Section 1.1
          3. . Section 1.1 (Definitions) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby further amended by inserting the following definitions (alphabetically):
Section 1.1
: With respect to (i) TCI, TCI GP, LCM LLC and Comcast Newco, Comcast Cable Communications Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its Subsidiaries and (ii) TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP, TWE and its Subsidiaries.
Cable Affiliates
: Comcast TCP Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Comcast Newco
: The Contribution and Assumption Agreement, dated as of March 23, 1998, among KCCP, TWE-A/N, LCM LLC and Comcast Newco, as amended from time to time.
KCCP Contribution Agreement
: TWE-A/N, TCI, LCM LLC and Comcast Newco and any other Person hereafter admitted as a limited partner of the Partnership in accordance with the terms hereof, but excluding any Person that ceases to be a Partner in accordance with the terms hereof.
Limited Partner
: (i) TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP and any subsequent Permitted Transferees of their Interests, on the one hand, and (ii) TCI, TCI GP, LCM LLC and Comcast
Related Partners
 
3
Newco and any subsequent Permitted Transferees of their Interests, on the other hand.
: As defined in the Transaction Agreement.
Second Comcast Restructuring
: The Agreement of Merger and Transaction Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2003, by and among the Partnership, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TWE, TCI, TCI GP, KCCP, Overland Park, LCM, LCM LLC, Comcast Corporation (solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) thereof) and Time Warner Cable Inc. (solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) thereof), as amended as of December 19, 2003.
Transaction Agreement
: As defined in the Transaction Agreement.
TWE Transfer
: With respect to any Partner, the Parent of such Partner that is not a Subsidiary of any other Person. As of the Effective Time, the Ultimate Parent of TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP is TWI, and the Ultimate Parent of TCI, TCI GP, LCM LLC and Comcast Newco is Comcast.
Ultimate Parent
     
B. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE III (COMPANY CAPITAL)
          1. . Section 3.1 (Percentage Interests) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following immediately prior to penultimate sentence of such section:
Section 3.1
As of February 28, 2005, after giving effect to the TWE Transfer and the Second Comcast Restructuring, the respective Percentage Interests of the Partners in the Partnership are as set forth below:
          2. . Clause (f) of Section 3.2 (Capital Contributions) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the term "TWE" with the phrase "TWE-A/N (through its predecessor in interest, TWE)" and replacing the term "Overland
Section 3.2
 
4
Park" with the phrase "Comcast Newco (through its predecessor in interest, Overland Park)".
     
C. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE VII (TRANSFERS)
          1. . Section 7.2 (Permitted Transfers) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by replacing each occurrence therein of the term "Overland Park" with "Comcast Newco."
Section 7.2
     
D. 
AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE X (MISCELLANEOUS)
          1. . Section 10.5 (Notices) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the term "Overland Park" with "Comcast Newco", the term "TCI Texas Cable, Inc." with "TCI Texas Cable, LLC" and the term "TCI of Overland Park, Inc." with "Comcast TCP Holdings, Inc."
Section 10.5
     
E. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
          1. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the terms and conditions of the Partnership Agreement are ratified and shall remain unchanged and continue in full force and effect.
Ratification of the Partnership Agreement
          2. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
Governing Law
          3. . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall consist one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          4. . The headings in this Amendment are for convenience of reference only, and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
 
5
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
6

 
Exhibit 10.13
EXECUTION COPY
          AGREEMENT OF MERGER AND TRANSACTION AGREEMENT, dated as of December 1, 2003 (this ""), among Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), Kansas City Cable Partners, a Colorado general partnership (""), Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership (""), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company (""), TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation (""), TCI of Missouri, Inc. (formerly known as Liberty Cable of Missouri, Inc.), a Missouri corporation (""), and TCI of Overland Park, Inc., a Kansas corporation ("" and together with TCI and LCM and their respective successors in interest under the TCP Partnership Agreement (as defined herein), the KCCP Partnership Agreement (as defined herein) or the Combined Partnership Agreement (as defined herein), the ""), and solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p), Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (""), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
TCP
KCCP
TWE-A/N
TWE-A/N GP
TWE
TCI
TCI GP
LCM
Overland Park
TCI Limited Partners
Comcast
TWCI
          WHEREAS, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP are parties to that certain Limited Partnership Agreement of TCP, dated as of June 23, 1998, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 11, 1998, Amendment No. 2, dated as of May 16, 2000, and Amendment No. 3, dated as of August 23, 2000 (as amended, the ""), pursuant to which TWE-A/N and TCI are limited partners, each with a 49.5% Percentage Interest (as defined in the TCP Partnership Agreement) and TWE-A/N GP and TCI GP are general partners, each with a 0.5% Percentage Interest (as defined in the TCP Partnership Agreement);
TCP Partnership Agreement
          WHEREAS, TWE, LCM and Overland Park are parties to that certain Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement of KCCP, dated as of August 31, 1998 (the ""), pursuant to which TWE holds a 50% Percentage Interest (as defined in the KCCP Partnership Agreement) therein, LCM holds a 46.211% Percentage Interest (as defined in the KCCP Partnership Agreement) therein and Overland Park holds a 3.789% Percentage Interest (as defined in the KCCP Partnership Agreement) therein;
KCCP Partnership Agreement
          WHEREAS, the partners of TCP and KCCP desire to merge KCCP with and into TCP (the ""), with TCP as the surviving limited partnership (the ""), on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6  17-101 . .) (the "") and the Colorado Uniform Partnership Act (Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann.  7-64-101 .) (the "");
Merger
Combined Partnership
et
seq
DRULPA
et.
seq
CUPA
 
          WHEREAS, KCCP desires prior to the Merger to (a) form a trust (the "") in accordance with the Delaware Statutory Trust Act (Del. Code Ann. Tit. 12  3801 .) (the "") of which KCCP shall be the sole beneficiary and (b) transfer all of its assets, subject to all of its liabilities, to the Trust;
Trust
et
seq
Statutory Trust Act
          WHEREAS, Comcast desires prior to the Merger to hold the majority of its interests in TCP and KCCP in an indirect wholly-owned Delaware corporation, Comcast TCP Holdings, Inc. (""), by implementing certain restructurings as more fully described in Section 3 hereof;
Comcast Newco
          WHEREAS, immediately after the Merger is consummated, the limited partners of the Combined Partnership will consist of TWE-A/N, TWE, TCI, LCM LLC (as defined herein) and Overland Park, and the general partners of the Combined Partnership will consist of TWE-A/N GP and TCI GP; and
          WHEREAS, capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Combined Partnership Agreement (as defined herein).
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
     1. 
Formation of Trust; Trust Transfer
.
          (a) . Prior to the Effective Time (as defined herein), KCCP shall form the Trust in accordance with the Statutory Trust Act and an Agreement and Declaration of Trust, substantially in the form of attached hereto (the "").
Formation of Trust
Exhibit A
Trust Agreement
          (b) . Immediately prior to the Effective Time (as defined herein), pursuant to the Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement substantially in the form of attached hereto (the ""), (i) KCCP shall assign, transfer and deliver to the Trust, and shall cause the Trust to accept, all of KCCP's right, title and interest in and to all of the Assets (as defined in the Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement) of KCCP (the "") and (ii) KCCP shall cause the Trust to (x) assume and agree to perform all Liabilities (as defined in the Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement) of KCCP and (y) indemnify and hold KCCP harmless from all such Liabilities. The transactions contemplated by this Section 1 shall be referred to as the "."
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit B
Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement
KCCP Assets
Trust Transfer
          (c) . Notwithstanding Section 1(b) above, any KCCP Asset, the conveyance, assignment or transfer of which without the consent, authorization, approval or waiver of a third party would constitute a breach or other contravention of such KCCP Asset or in any way adversely affect the rights of KCCP or the Trust thereunder (a ""), shall not be conveyed, assigned or
Nonassignable Assets
Nonassignable Asset
 
transferred by the Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement until such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained, at which time such Nonassignable Asset shall be deemed conveyed, assigned or transferred under the Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement without further action on the part of KCCP or the Trust. Until such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained, (i) KCCP and the Trust shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the relevant consent, (ii) KCCP shall endeavor to provide the Trust with the benefits under the Nonassignable Assets as if such Nonassignable Assets had been assigned to the Trust, including preserving the benefits of and enforcing for the benefit of the Trust, at the Trust's expense, any and all rights of KCCP under such Nonassignable Asset; and (iii) to the extent permissible under such Nonassignable Asset, the Trust shall (A) be responsible for the obligations of KCCP under such Nonassignable Asset and (B) act as the agent of KCCP in preserving the benefits of and enforcing any and all rights of KCCP in such Nonassignable Asset. The Trust shall indemnify KCCP in respect of any Damages suffered or incurred by it as a result of this Section 1(c). KCCP shall promptly pay to the Trust when received all monies received by KCCP in respect of any Nonassignable Asset or any claim or right or any benefit arising thereunder.
          (d) Pursuant to Section 16 of the Amended and Restated Management Agreement, dated as of August 31, 1998 (the ""), TWE, in its capacity as general manager under the KCCP Management Agreement, hereby consents to the assignment of the KCCP Management Agreement by KCCP to the Trust in connection with the Trust Transfer.
Consent to Assignment of KCCP Management Agreement.
KCCP Management Agreement
     2. 
Merger
.
          (a) . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, at the Effective Time (as defined herein), KCCP shall be merged with and into TCP in accordance with the provisions of Section 17-211 of the DRULPA and Section 7-64-905 of the CUPA. TCP shall be the surviving limited partnership resulting from the Merger and shall continue to be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware. From and after the Effective Time (as defined herein), the separate existence and organization of KCCP shall cease, and the Combined Partnership shall succeed to and shall have all the rights, privileges and powers of both TCP and KCCP and all property, real, personal and mixed, and all debts due to either TCP or KCCP, as well as all other things and causes of action belonging to TCP or KCCP shall be vested in the Combined Partnership without further act or deed. The Combined Partnership shall thenceforth be responsible and liable for all debts, liabilities and duties of both TCP and KCCP. The address of the chief executive offices of the Combined Partnership shall be 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902.
Merger
          (b) . The Merger shall become effective on the date (which shall be the date of filing unless otherwise agreed by the parties) and at the time specified in the certificate of merger (the "") to be filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as provided in Section 17-211 of the DRULPA (the "").
Effective Time
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
 
          (c) . At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of TCP or KCCP or any of the partners of TCP or KCCP, (i) each Interest (as defined in the TCP Partnership Agreement) in TCP issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall remain outstanding immediately after the Effective Time and (ii) each Interest (as defined in the KCCP Partnership Agreement) in KCCP issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into an Interest in the Combined Partnership, in each case representing the Percentage Interests and Capital Accounts described in Section 3.1 of the Combined Partnership Agreement opposite the name of each holder of such Interest, having the same designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties as an Interest in TCP immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Manner of Converting Partnership Interests
          (d) . The TCP Partnership Agreement in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be amended as of the Effective Time, and as so amended (the ""), shall continue in full force and effect as the limited partnership agreement of the Combined Partnership until otherwise amended or repealed as provided by law or in accordance with the terms of such limited partnership agreement. Such amendment to the TCP Partnership Agreement shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto ("").
Amendment #4 to the Partnership Agreement
Combined Partnership Agreement
Exhibit C
TCP Amendment #4
          (e) . At the Effective Time, TWE, LCM LLC and Overland Park shall be admitted as limited partners of the Combined Partnership in accordance with the terms of the Combined Partnership Agreement.
Admission of New Limited Partners
          (f) . TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP each hereby waive compliance with the provisions of Section 4.5 of the TCP Partnership Agreement for the limited purpose of entering into this Agreement and consummating the transactions contemplated herein, including without limitation, the Merger. TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP each hereby agree that the waiver set forth in this Section 2(f) shall constitute a waiver pursuant to Section 10.2 of the TCP Partnership Agreement.
Waiver of Management Committee Approval Requirement
          (g) . TWE, LCM and Overland Park each hereby waive compliance with the provisions of Section 4.5 of the KCCP Partnership Agreement for the limited purpose of entering into this Agreement and consummating the transactions contemplated herein, including without limitation, the Merger. TWE, LCM and Overland Park each hereby agree that the waiver set forth in this Section 2(g) shall constitute a waiver pursuant to Section 10.2 of the KCCP Partnership Agreement.
Waiver of Management Committee Approval Requirement
     3. 
Certain Restructurings
.
          (a) .
First Comcast Restructuring
     (i) The parties hereby agree that (x) as soon as is reasonably practicable after the date hereof but in no event later than December 15, 2003,
 
Comcast shall cause LCM to transfer (the "") (A) 100% of its Interest (as defined in the KCCP Partnership Agreement) and (B) all of LCM's rights and obligations under this Agreement and under the KCCP Contribution Agreement to a single member limited liability company directly or indirectly wholly-owned by Comcast that shall be disregarded as an entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes (""), and (y) as soon as is reasonably practicable after the consummation of the LCM Transfer but in no event later than December 15, 2003, Comcast shall cause (A) 100% of the membership interests in TCI to be contributed to Comcast Newco and (B) LCM to contribute 100% of the membership interests in LCM LLC to Comcast Newco. The series of transactions described in this Section 3(a)(i) shall be referred to as the "" and the date on which the last of such transactions shall have occurred shall be referred to as the "".
LCM Transfer
LCM LLC
First Comcast Restructuring
First Restructuring Date
     (ii) Each of TWE, LCM and Overland Park hereby (x) acknowledge and agree that the LCM Transfer contemplated by this Section 3(a) shall be treated as if it were a "Permitted Transfer" under Section 7 of the KCCP Partnership Agreement, and (y) agree to execute and deliver an amendment to the KCCP Partnership Agreement to reflect the LCM Transfer.
     (iii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the First Comcast Restructuring shall not relieve LCM of any of its obligations under the Transaction Documents and, in connection with the First Comcast Restructuring, LCM shall continue to be bound by its obligations and shall execute and deliver to TWE-A/N GP, TWE-A/N and TWE an acknowledgement of such agreement to remain bound to each Transaction Document.
          (b) . The parties hereby agree that at any time after the date that is 12 months and 1 day after the First Restructuring Date and on or before February 28, 2005, TWE shall contribute (the "") (x) 100% of its Interest in the Combined Partnership the ("") and (y) all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, the KCCP Contribution Agreement and the Funding Agreement (as defined herein), except to the extent such rights and obligations relate to TWE in its capacity as general manager of the Combined Partnership or the Trust, to TWE-A/N in exchange for Preferred Partnership Units (as defined in the TWE-A/N Partnership Agreement (as defined herein)) therein having an aggregate liquidation preference equal to the value of the TWE Interest in the Combined Partnership being so contributed (it being understood that the maturity dates of the Preferred Partnership Units may also be modified in connection herewith or therewith). Each of TWE-A/N, TWE, the TCI Limited Partners, TWE-A/N GP and TCI GP hereby: (i) acknowledge and agree that the TWE Transfer contemplated by this Section 3(b) shall be treated as if it were a "Permitted Transfer" under Section 7 of the Combined Partnership Agreement and (ii) agree to amend the Combined Partnership Agreement to reflect the TWE Transfer. TWE and TWE-A/N acknowledge and agree that the TWE-A/N Third Amended and Restated Partnership
TWE Transfer
TWE Transfer
TWE Interest
 
Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2002 (as amended from time to time, the ""), among TWE, TWCI and Advance/Newhouse Partnership, will be amended to reflect the transactions described in this Section 3(b). TWE and TWE-A/N represent and warrant that upon such TWE Transfer, the TWE Interest in the Combined Partnership will become part of the Residual Business and will not be part of or in any way co-mingled with, the Selected Business (as such terms are defined in the TWE-A/N Partnership Agreement).
TWE-A/N Partnership Agreement
          (c) . The parties hereby agree that at any time after the date that is 12 months and 1 day after the First Restructuring Date and on or before February 28, 2005, (i) Comcast shall cause Overland Park to contribute (A) 100% of its Interest in the Combined Partnership and (B) all of Overland Park's rights and obligations under this Agreement, the KCCP Contribution Agreement and the KCCP Keep Well (as defined herein) to Comcast Newco, (ii) Comcast shall cause 100% of the stock of TCI GP to be contributed to Comcast Newco, and (iii) immediately after the contribution contemplated in clause (ii) of this Section 3(c) is consummated, Comcast shall cause TCI GP to become a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes (all such actions, the ""). The date on which the last of the transactions described in Section 3(b) and this Section 3(c) shall have occurred shall be referred to as the "". Each of TWE-A/N, TWE, the TCI Limited Partners, TWE-A/N GP and TCI GP hereby (A) acknowledge and agree that the contribution by Overland Park contemplated by Section 3(c)(i)(A) shall be treated as if it were a "Permitted Transfer" under Section 7 of the Combined Partnership Agreement and (B) agree to execute and deliver an amendment to the Combined Partnership Agreement to reflect the transactions described in this Section 3(c). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Second Comcast Restructuring shall not relieve Overland Park of any of its obligations under the Transaction Documents and, in connection with the Second Comcast Restructuring, Overland Park shall continue to be bound by its obligations and shall execute and deliver to TWE-A/N GP, TWE-A/N and TWE an acknowledgement of such agreement to remain bound to each Transaction Document.
Second Comcast Restructuring
Second Comcast Restructuring
Second Restructuring Date
          (d) . It is understood and agreed that the transactions set forth in this Section 3 shall not be a condition to the Closing and no restriction on the ability to consummate the transactions set forth in this Section 3 shall be a basis for not proceeding with the other transactions to be consummated at the Closing or for terminating this Agreement.
No Closing Condition
     4. .
Closing
          (a) . The closing of the Trust Transfer and Merger (the "") shall take place at the New York offices of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, at 10:00 a.m. on the date (the "") which is the last day of the month in which the conditions set forth in Section 4(b) are satisfied.
Closing
Closing
Closing Date
          (b) . The obligations of the parties hereto to consummate the Trust Transfer and Merger shall be subject to the satisfaction at or prior to the Closing of the following conditions, the imposition of which are solely for the benefit
Conditions to Closing
 
of such parties and any one or more of which may be waived by such parties in their discretion, and all of which are expressly subject to Section 3(d):
     (i) with respect to the Merger, the Trust Transfer shall have been consummated;
     (ii) receipt of any required consents or waivers from the Federal Communications Commission to transfer licenses granted by the Federal Communications Commission to any Systems, divisions or other business units in KCCP or TCP pursuant to the transactions contemplated hereby;
     (iii) the aggregate number of subscribers served by the cable television systems owned by KCCP (the "") that, as of the Closing, relate to service areas for which no franchise is required, no consent is necessary for the transfer of the franchise in connection with the consummation of the Trust Transfer and Merger or effective consent reasonably acceptable to the parties has been obtained or deemed to be obtained shall be at least 90% of the total number of subscribers served by the KCCP Systems (it being understood that a consent shall be deemed reasonably acceptable if such consent does not require any material change be made to the relevant franchise agreement or otherwise impose any material obligation on the transferor, the transferee or any of their respective Affiliates);
KCCP Systems
     (iv) all consents and waivers to the Trust Transfer and the Merger, other than such consents and waivers referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) above, shall have been obtained, be in effect and be subject to no limitations, conditions, restrictions or obligations, except for such consents the failure of which to obtain would not, and such limitations, conditions, restrictions or obligations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse affect on TCP's or KCCP's business, financial condition, assets or liabilities;
     (v) each document set forth in Sections 6(a) to 6(k) shall have been executed by the parties thereto;
     (vi) no provision of applicable law or regulation and no judgment, injunction, order or decree shall prohibit the consummation of the Merger or the other transactions contemplated herein;
     (vii) except with respect to matters referred to in clause (iii) above, there shall not have been instituted and be pending any action or proceeding by any government or governmental authority or agency (whether domestic, foreign or supranational) before any court or governmental authority or agency (whether domestic, foreign or supranational) challenging or seeking to make illegal, to delay materially or otherwise directly or indirectly to restrain or prohibit the consummation of
 
the Merger or the other transactions contemplated herein or seeking to obtain material damages relating to the Merger or the other transactions contemplated herein; and
     (viii) KCCP shall have refinanced the obligations under the credit agreement dated as of August 31, 1998 by and among KCCP, The Bank of New York, as administrative agent, and the lenders signatory thereto in a manner that permits the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby to be consummated and any new Debt incurred by KCCP in connection therewith shall be on terms and conditions reasonably satisfactory to TWE and Comcast.
     5. .
Representations and Warranties
          (a) Each party hereto represents and warrants to the other parties hereto as follows:
     (i) . Such party is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization.
Organization, Standing and Power
     (ii) . Such party has the requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and each document set forth in Section 6 to which such party is a party (each, a "") and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each Transaction Document by such party and the consummation by such party of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership or limited liability company action, as applicable, on the part of such party and no other corporate, partnership or limited liability company proceedings on the part of such party are necessary to approve this Agreement and each Transaction Document or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. This Agreement has been (and each Transaction Document will be) duly executed and delivered by such party and constitutes (or, when executed, will constitute) a valid and binding agreement of such party, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms. The execution, delivery and performance by such party of this Agreement and each Transaction Document, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, do not and will not (A) violate the organizational documents of such party, (B) assuming compliance with the matters referred to in Section 5(a)(iii), violate any applicable law, rule, regulation, judgment, injunction, order or decree, (C) assuming compliance with the matters referred to in Sections 4(b)(iv) and 6(h), require any consent or other action by any Person under, constitute a default under (with due notice or lapse of time or both), or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or acceleration of any right or obligation of such party or any
Authority; Noncontravention
Transaction Document
 
of its Subsidiaries or to a loss of any benefit to which such party or any of its Subsidiaries is entitled under any provision of any agreement or other instrument binding upon such party or any of its Subsidiaries, except, with respect to TCP and KCCP and their respective Subsidiaries, matters which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on TCP's or KCCP's business, financial condition, assets or liabilities, or (D) result in the creation or imposition of any material mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance on any asset of such party or any of its Subsidiaries.
     (iii) . The execution, delivery and performance by such party of this Agreement and each Transaction Document, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official on the part of such party or its affiliates other than (A) the filing of the Certificate of Merger with respect to the Merger with the Secretary of State of the Sate of Delaware and the filing of a statement of merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Colorado and (B) receipt of any required approvals from the Federal Communications Commission and applicable franchise authorities.
Governmental Authorization
          (b) .
Transfer Representations
     (i) TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP each hereby represent and warrant to TCI and TCI GP that neither it nor any of its Affiliates have taken any action that would cause its Interest (as defined in the TCP Partnership Agreement) in TCP to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) during the period beginning April 1, 2003 and ending on the date hereof.
     (ii) TWE hereby represents and warrants to Overland Park and LCM that neither it nor any of its Affiliates have taken any action that would cause its Interest (as defined in the KCCP Partnership Agreement) in KCCP to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) during the period beginning April 1, 2003 and ending on the date hereof.
     (iii) TCI and TCI GP each hereby represent and warrant to TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP that neither it nor any of its Affiliates have taken any action that would cause its Interest (as defined in the TCP Partnership Agreement) in TCP to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) during the period beginning April 1, 2003 and ending on the date hereof.
 
     (iv) Overland Park and LCM each hereby represent and warrant to TWE that neither it nor any of its Affiliates have taken any action that would cause its Interest (as defined in the KCCP Partnership Agreement) in KCCP to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) during the period beginning April 1, 2003 and ending on the date hereof.
          (c) For the avoidance of doubt, all representations and warranties made in Section 5(a) by TCP or KCCP or in respect of their respective businesses, financial conditions, assets, liabilities or agreements shall be deemed to have been made to the other parties hereto only by TCP and KCCP, respectively.
     6. 
Covenants and Other Matters
.
          (a) . Prior to the Closing Date, KCCP shall file a certificate of trust with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware as provided in Section 3810 of the Statutory Trust Act, which certificate of trust shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto.
Certificate of Trust
Exhibit D
          (b) . At Closing, KCCP shall, and shall cause a trustee mutually acceptable to TWE, LCM and Overland Park to, execute and deliver the Trust Agreement.
Trust Agreement
          (c) . At Closing, KCCP shall, and shall cause the Trust to, execute and deliver the Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement.
Assignment, Assumption & Indemnity Agreement
          (d) . At Closing, the Combined Partnership and TWE shall execute and deliver an Amended and Restated Management Agreement (the ""), substantially in the form of attached hereto. The TCP Management Agreement shall become effective as of the Effective Time, and shall continue in full force and effect as the management agreement for the Combined Partnership until otherwise amended in accordance with its terms.
TCP Management Agreement Amendment and Restatement
TCP Management Agreement
Exhibit E
          (e) . At Closing, the Combined Partnership, the Trust and TWE shall execute and deliver a Second Amended and Restated Management Agreement (the ""), substantially in the form of attached hereto. The Second Amended and Restated KCCP Management Agreement shall become effective as of the Effective Time, and shall continue in full force and effect as the management agreement for the Trust until otherwise amended in accordance with its terms.
KCCP Management Agreement Amendment and Restatement
Second Amended and Restated KCCP Management Agreement
Exhibit F
          (f) . At Closing, TCI Holdings, Inc. shall execute and deliver an amendment to the Guaranty, dated as of March 23, 1998 (the ""), by TCI Holdings, Inc. in favor of TWE and KCCP, which amendment shall modify the term "Obligations" so as to include Overland Park's obligations under the Combined Partnership Agreement. The amendment to the TCI Guaranty shall become
Guaranty Amendment
TCI Guaranty
 
effective as of the Effective Time, and shall continue in full force and effect until otherwise amended in accordance with its terms.
          (g) . (i) At Overland Park's request, Overland Park and KCCP shall execute and deliver at Closing an amendment to the Keep Well Agreement, dated as of August 31, 1998 (as amended from time to time, the ""), which amendment shall modify the term "Credit Agreement" so as to refer to any new senior credit agreement of KCCP existing as of the Closing. The amendment to the KCCP Keep Well shall become effective as of the Effective Time, and shall continue in full force and effect until otherwise amended in accordance with its terms.
Keep Well Amendment
KCCP Keep Well
     (ii) TWE, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP and KCCP hereby consent to the assignment of the KCCP Keep Well to Comcast Newco in connection with the Second Comcast Restructuring and acknowledge and agree that no further consent shall be required at the time of the Second Comcast Restructuring in connection with such assignment.
          (h) . At or prior to Closing, TCP and JP Morgan Chase Bank shall execute and deliver an amendment to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among TCP, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI, TCI GP and JP Morgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent, and the other parties thereto. The amendment to the TCP Credit Agreement shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto, shall become effective immediately prior to the Trust Transfer and shall continue in full force and effect until otherwise amended in accordance with its terms.
TCP Credit Agreement Amendment
TCP Credit Agreement
Exhibit G
          (i) . Concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, TCP, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TWE, TCI GP, the TCI Limited Partners and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent under the TCP Credit Agreement, shall execute and deliver an amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Funding Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2001 (as amended from time to time, the ""), which amendment (the "") shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto. The Second Funding Agreement Amendment shall with respect to certain provisions become effective as of the date hereof, shall with respect to other provisions become effective as of the Effective Time, and shall continue in full force and effect until otherwise amended in accordance with its terms.
Funding Agreement Amendment
Funding Agreement
Second Funding Agreement Amendment
Exhibit H
          (j) . At or prior to Closing, TWE-A/N GP and TCI GP shall have executed and delivered the Certificate of Merger substantially in the form attached hereto as .
Delaware Certificate of Merger
Exhibit I
          (k) . At Closing, TWE-A/N, TWE, TWE-A/N GP, TCI GP and the TCI Limited Partners shall execute and deliver the TCP Amendment #4 which shall become effective as described in Section 2(d).
TCP Amendment #4
 
          (l) . Prior to Closing, TWE-A/N, TWE, TWE-A/N GP, TCI GP and the TCI Limited Partners shall have approved the Initial Budget of the Combined Partnership for 2004.
Initial Budget
          (m) . After Closing, TWE-A/N GP and TCI GP shall execute and deliver a statement of merger and cause such statement to be filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Colorado as provided in Section 7-64-907 of the CUPA.
Colorado Statement of Merger
          (n) . Each party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the conditions to Closing to be satisfied and shall cooperate in good faith and take such commercially reasonable actions as may be requested by another party in order to carry out the provisions and purposes of this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, no party shall exercise its rights under Section 7.4 of the TCP Partnership Agreement or Section 7.4 of the KCCP Partnership Agreement while this Agreement is in effect.
Further Assurances
          (o) . The parties agree to consult with each other before issuing any press release or making any public statement with respect to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and will not issue any such press release or make any such public statement prior to such consultation, except that a party may issue any press release or make any public statement with respect to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby that may be required by applicable law or any listing agreement with any national securities exchange or quotation system prior to such consultation if such party has used reasonable efforts to consult with the other parties before issuing such press release or making such statement; , that notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties (and each of their officers, directors, employees, representatives, or other agents) are permitted to disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and all materials of any kind (including opinions and other tax analyses) related to such tax treatment and tax structure; , , that the foregoing proviso shall not permit any person to disclose, except as otherwise set forth herein, the name of, or other information that would identify, any party to such transactions or to disclose confidential, commercial or strategic information, or other proprietary information regarding such transaction not related to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Public Announcements
provided
however
,
provided
further
          (p) .
Indemnification
     (i) From and after the date hereof, Comcast shall be liable for and indemnify and hold harmless TWCI, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TWE and their respective Affiliates (each a "") for any claims, losses, liabilities, demands, obligations, actions, penalties, expenses and costs (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, including any such fees and expenses incurred in enforcing this indemnity) (collectively, "") (on an after tax basis) which may be made or brought against a TWCI Indemnitee or which a TWCI Indemnitee may suffer or incur as a result of, based upon or arising out of, any breach
TWCI Indemnitee
Damages
 
of the representations and warranties contained in Section 5(b)(iii) or (iv) hereof or any action taken (except pursuant hereto) by Comcast, the TCI Limited Partners, TCI GP or any of their respective Affiliates that (x) causes any of their respective Interests in TCP, KCCP or the Combined Partnership to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) during the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the date that is 12 months and 1 day following the Second Restructuring Date; or (y) causes any of their respective Interests in the Combined Partnership to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) if such action would cause the Combined Partnership to be terminated within the meaning of Section 708 of the Code; , , that the foregoing indemnification shall not apply to the First Comcast Restructuring or the Second Comcast Restructuring, respectively, in each case so long as consummated in accordance with the terms of Section 3; , , that in each case any indemnification hereunder shall not include any Damages as a shareholder of TWC.
provided
however
provided
further
     (ii) From and after the date hereof, TWCI shall be liable for and indemnify and hold harmless Comcast, the TCI Limited Partners, TCI GP, and their respective Affiliates (each a "") for any Damages (on an after tax basis) which may be made or brought against a Comcast Indemnitee or which a Comcast Indemnitee may suffer or incur as a result of, based upon or arising out of, any breach of the representations and warranties contained in Section 5(b)(i) or (ii) hereof or any action taken (except pursuant hereto) by TWCI, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP or TWE or any of their respective Affiliates that (x) causes any of their respective Interests in TCP, KCCP or the Combined Partnership to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) during the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the date that is 12 months and 1 day following the Second Restructuring Date; or (y) causes any of their respective Interests in the Combined Partnership to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) if such action would cause the Combined Partnership to be terminated within the meaning of Section 708 of the Code; , , that the foregoing indemnification shall not apply to the TWE Transfer so long as consummated in accordance with the terms of Section 3(b); , , that in each case any indemnification hereunder shall not include any Damages as a shareholder of TWC.
Comcast Indemnitee
provided
however
provided
further
     7. 
Termination.
          (a) . This Agreement may be terminated and the transactions contemplated hereby may be abandoned at any time prior to Closing:
Termination Events
 
     (i) by any party at any time after May 31, 2004 if the Closing has not occurred prior to such termination; that a party whose breach, or whose Affiliate's breach, has caused the Closing not to occur may not terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 7(a)(i);
provided
     (ii) at any time by the agreement of all parties; or
     (iii) by any party if consummation of the transactions contemplated herein would violate any nonappealable final judgment or any court or governmental body having competent jurisdiction, subject to Section 3(d).
The party desiring to terminate this Agreement pursuant to clause (i) or (iii) above shall give notice of such termination to the other parties.
          (b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 7(a), (i) other than the representations and warranties set forth in Section 5(b), which shall survive until the expiration of the statute of limitations applicable to the matters covered thereby (giving effect to any waiver, mitigation or extension thereof), none of the representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall survive such termination; and (ii) all rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, except for the rights and obligations set forth in Sections 3(a), 6(o), 6(p) and 8(b), in which case, if context so requires, references to the "Combined Partnership" in Section 6(p) shall be replaced with "TCP" or "KCCP", as the case may be. Termination of this Agreement pursuant to Sections 7(a)(i) or 7(a)(iii) shall not limit or impair any remedies that any party may have with respect to a breach or default of the covenants, agreements or obligations hereunder occurring prior to termination.
Effect of Termination
     8. 
Miscellaneous.
          (a) All notices or other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be duly given when delivered in person or by the United States mail or private express mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices
.
 
Any party may, by notice to the other parties, change the address to which such notices are to be given.
        (b) . All costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement shall be paid by the party incurring such cost or expense, except TCI GP and the TCI Limited Partners shall pay the fees and expenses of Davis Polk & Wardwell and TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP and TWE shall pay the fees and expenses of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, unless such fees and expenses of either law firm were incurred for the benefit of any or all of KCCP, TCP or the Combined Partnership, in which case such fees and expenses shall be paid by TCP, KCCP or the Combined Partnership, as applicable. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties hereby acknowledge and agree that none of the transactions described in Section 3 shall be deemed to be for the benefit of KCCP, TCP or the Combined Partnership.
Expenses
        (c) . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of
Governing Law
 
conflicts of law to the extent the application of the law of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
          (d) . No provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed waived, amended, supplemented or modified by any party, unless such waiver, amendment, supplement or modification is in writing and signed by the authorized representative of the party against whom such waiver, amendment, supplement or modification it is sought to be enforced.
Amendments
          (e) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; , , that, except as otherwise provided herein, no party hereto may assign its respective rights or delegate its respective obligations under this Agreement without the express prior written consent of each of the other parties hereto.
Assignment
provided
however
          (f) . The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
          (g) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written; , , that Comcast and TWCI are parties to this Agreement solely for purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) hereof.
provided
however
 

 
Exhibit 10.14
EXECUTION COPY
          AMENDMENT No. 1 (this "") TO THE AGREEMENT OF MERGER AND TRANSACTION AGREEMENT, dated as of December 19, 2003, among Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), Kansas City Cable Partners, a Colorado general partnership (""), Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership (""), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company (""), TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation (""), TCI of Missouri, Inc. (formerly known as Liberty Cable of Missouri, Inc.), a Missouri corporation (""), Comcast TCP Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("") as successor in interest to LCM, TCI of Overland Park, Inc., a Kansas corporation (""), Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (""), and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation ("").
Amendment
TCP
KCCP
TWE-A/N
TWE-A/N GP
TWE
TCI
TCI GP
LCM
LCM LLC
Overland Park
Comcast
TWCI
          WHEREAS, TCP, KCCP, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TWE, TCI, TCI GP, LCM, Overland Park, Comcast and TWCI have entered into that certain Agreement of Merger and Transaction Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2003 (the "");
Transaction Agreement
          WHEREAS, prior to the date hereof, in accordance with Section 3(a) of the Transaction Agreement and pursuant to a Contribution Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2003, as amended, between LCM and LCM LLC, LCM transferred (the "") to LCM LLC, among other things, (x) 100% of LCM's Interest (as defined in the Amended and Restated General Partnership Agreement of KCCP, dated as of August 31, 1998, as amended) in KCCP and (y) all of LCM's rights and obligations under the Transaction Agreement;
LCM Transfer
          WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 3(a)(iii) of the Transaction Agreement, the LCM Transfer did not relieve LCM of any of its obligations under the Transaction Agreement;
          WHEREAS, as a result of the LCM Transfer and Section 3(a)(iii) of the Transaction Agreement, both LCM and LCM LLC are a party to this Amendment; and
          WHEREAS, the parties hereto wish to amend the Transaction Agreement to reflect the agreements of the parties set forth herein.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
2
          1. . Section 1(a) (Formation of Trust) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended by replacing "Effective Time" with "Closing Date".
Section 1(a)
          2. . Section 1(a) (Formation of Trust) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby further amended by adding the following at the end thereof: "The parties hereby agree that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Trust Agreement, prior to the Effective Time the Trust shall not engage in any activities or transactions other than activities or transactions in furtherance of the transactions contemplated herein."
Section 1(a)
          1. . Section 6(b) (Trust Agreement) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended by replacing "At Closing" with "Prior to the Closing Date".
Section 6(b)
          2. . Section 6(p) (Indemnification) of the Transaction Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
Section 6(p)
"(i) From and after the date hereof, Comcast shall be liable for and indemnify and hold harmless TWCI, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TWE and their respective Affiliates (each a "") for any claims, losses, liabilities, demands, obligations, actions, penalties, expenses and costs resulting from a termination of TCP, KCCP or the Combined Partnership, as applicable, under Section 708 of the Code (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, including any such fees and expenses incurred in enforcing this indemnity) (on an after tax basis) (collectively, "") which may be made or brought against a TWCI Indemnitee or which a TWCI Indemnitee may suffer or incur as a result of, based upon or arising out of, any breach of the representations and warranties contained in Section 5(b)(iii) or (iv) hereof or any action taken (except pursuant hereto) by Comcast, the TCI Limited Partners, TCI GP or any of their respective Affiliates that (x) causes any of their respective Interests in TCP, KCCP or the Combined Partnership to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) during the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the date that is 12 months and 1 day following the Second Restructuring Date; or (y) causes any of their respective Interests in the Combined Partnership to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) if such action would
TWCI Indemnitee
Section 708 Damages
 
3
cause the Combined Partnership to be terminated within the meaning of Section 708 of the Code; , , that the foregoing indemnification shall not apply to the First Comcast Restructuring or the Second Comcast Restructuring, respectively, in each case so long as consummated in accordance with the terms of Section 3; , , that in each case any indemnification hereunder shall not include any Section 708 Damages as a shareholder of TWCI.
provided
however
provided
further
(ii) From and after the date hereof, TWCI shall be liable for and indemnify and hold harmless Comcast, the TCI Limited Partners, TCI GP, and their respective Affiliates (each a "") for any Section 708 Damages which may be made or brought against a Comcast Indemnitee or which a Comcast Indemnitee may suffer or incur as a result of, based upon or arising out of, any breach of the representations and warranties contained in Section 5(b)(i) or (ii) hereof or any action taken (except pursuant hereto) by TWCI, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP or TWE or any of their respective Affiliates that (x) causes any of their respective Interests in TCP, KCCP or the Combined Partnership to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) during the period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the date that is 12 months and 1 day following the Second Restructuring Date; or (y) causes any of their respective Interests in the Combined Partnership to be treated as sold or exchanged within the meaning of Section 708(b)(1)(B) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.708-1(b)(2) if such action would cause the Combined Partnership to be terminated within the meaning of Section 708 of the Code; , , that the foregoing indemnification shall not apply to the TWE Transfer so long as consummated in accordance with the terms of Section 3(b); , , that in each case any indemnification hereunder shall not include any Section 708 Damages as a shareholder of TWCI."
Comcast Indemnitee
provided
however
provided
further
          1. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the terms and conditions of the Transaction Agreement are ratified and shall remain unchanged and continue in full force and effect.
Ratification of the Transaction Agreement
          2. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
Governing Law
 
4
          3. . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall consist one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          4. . The headings in this Amendment are for convenience of reference only, and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
 
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed as of the date first above written.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.15
EXECUTION COPY
          THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED FUNDING AGREEMENT, dated as of December 28, 2001 (this ""), by and among TEXAS CABLE PARTNERS, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT-ADVANCE/NEWHOUSE PARTNERSHIP, a New York general partnership (""), TWE-A/N TEXAS CABLE PARTNERS GENERAL PARTNER LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("" and, together with TWE-A/N, the ""), TCI TEXAS CABLE HOLDINGS LLC, a Colorado limited liability company (""), TCI TEXAS CABLE, INC., a Colorado corporation ("" and, together with TCI, the "" and, together with the TWE-A/N Parties and TCI, the ""), and THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, as administrative agent under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) (the "").
Agreement
Partnership
TWE-A/N
TWE-A/N GP
TWE-A/N Parties
TCI
TCI GP
TCI Parties
Partners
Administrative Agent
          WHEREAS, the Partnership and the Administrative Agent are parties to a Credit Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "");
Credit Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Partnership has requested an amendment (the "") to the Credit Agreement to modify certain financial covenants of the Partnership under the Credit Agreement;
Fifth Amendment
          WHEREAS, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement) are willing to enter into the Fifth Amendment on certain terms and conditions, including, among other things, the condition that the Partnership, the Partners and the Administrative Agent execute and deliver this Agreement;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the Funding Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2000, among the Partnership, the Partners and the Administrative Agent, the Amended and Restated Funding Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2000, among the Partnership, the Partners and the Administrative Agent, and the Second Amended and Restated Funding Agreement, dated March 28, 2001, among the Partnership, the Partners and the Administrative Agent (collectively, the ""), the Partners have previously made subordinated loans to the Partnership in an aggregate amount equal to $301,453,361.58 (the ""), which amount includes certain management fees payable by the Partnership to Time Warner Cable (""), a division of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., pursuant to the Management Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998, between TWC and the Partnership (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "");
Prior Funding Agreements
Existing Subordinated Loans
TWC
Management Agreement
          WHEREAS, each of the Partners has agreed to make additional subordinated loans to the Partnership on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
 
2
          WHEREAS, the Partnership, the Partners and the Administrative Agent wish to amend and restate the Second Amended and Restated Funding Agreement to, among other things, extend its effectiveness.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Amended and Restated Funding Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
          1. . All capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Definitions
          2. . Prior to the date hereof, the Partnership issued certain promissory notes, substantially in the form attached hereto as (each, a ""), to the Partners pursuant to the Prior Funding Agreements. The parties hereby acknowledge that Schedule I hereto contains a true and accurate list of all such Promissory Notes. The Partnership hereby confirms receipt of all proceeds from the issuance of such Promissory Notes and its liability with respect thereto.
Issuance of Notes Prior to the Date Hereof
Exhibit A
Promissory Note
          3. . Prior to the date hereof, the Partners have transferred certain Promissory Notes issued pursuant to the Prior Funding Agreements among themselves. Each of the Partnership and the Administrative Agent hereby confirm that it consented to such assignments.
Transfers of Promissory Notes Prior to the Date Hereof
          4. . The Partnership represents that it has used the proceeds of the Existing Subordinated Loans, and shall use the proceeds of any Promissory Notes issued pursuant to Section 5, to fund capital expenditures, repay existing indebtedness and for general corporate purposes, all in the ordinary course of business.
Use of Proceeds of Notes
          5. .
Ongoing Funding Obligations
               (a) . Each of the Partners agrees that, no later than five business days following the receipt of the Monthly Budget described in Section 6(a), such Partner shall purchase, and the Partnership shall sell, a Promissory Note in an original principal amount equal to the product of (i) such Partner's Percentage Interest (as set forth on Schedule II hereto), multiplied by (ii) the total amount of additional funding required by the Partnership to meet the Partnership Obligations (as defined below).
Obligations Based on Financial Estimates
               (b) . If the TWC Documentation described in Section 6(b)(i) or Section 6(b)(iii) shows that the Partnership requires additional funding, each of the Partners hereby agrees that, no later than five business days following the receipt of any documentation provided pursuant to Section 6(b)(i) or Section 6(b)(iii), such Partner shall purchase, and the Partnership shall sell, a Promissory Note in an original principal amount equal to the product of (i) such Partner's
Obligations Based on Actual Financials
 
3
Percentage Interest (as set forth on Schedule II hereto), multiplied by (ii) the total amount of additional funding required by the Partnership to meet the Partnership Obligations. Each of the Partners hereby agrees that, if the TWC Documentation described in Section 6(b)(i) or Section 6(b)(iii) shows that the Partnership has more capital than is required to meet the Partnership Obligations then such additional capital shall remain in the Partnership.
               (c) . No later than five business days following the receipt of the TWC Documentation described in Section 6(b)(ii), (A) the Partnership shall issue to TWE-A/N two Promissory Notes, each in an original principal amount equal to one-half of the total amount of payments that the Partnership would have been required to make to TWC under the Management Agreement but for this Agreement and (B) immediately following such issuance, TCI shall purchase from TWE-A/N, and TWE-A/N shall sell and assign to TCI, one of the Promissory Notes issued to TWE-A/N pursuant to the preceding clause (A), for a cash purchase price equal to the original principal amount of such Promissory Note. Each of the Partnership and the Administrative Agent hereby consents to such assignments.
Obligations with respect to Management Fees
               (d) . For purpose of clarity, it is the intent of the Partners that each Partner provide funding to the Partnership pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with such Partner's Percentage Interest (as set forth on Schedule II hereto), such that, following the making of all additional fundings pursuant to this Agreement, the TWE-A/N Parties, on the one hand, and the TCI Parties, on the other hand, will have contributed an aggregate of 50% of all funding under by this Agreement.
Intent of the Parties
          6. .
TWC Documentation
               (a) . On or prior to the fifth business day of each month following the date hereof (other than January 2003), TWC shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to TCI and the Administrative Agent a monthly budget of the Partnership for such month (the "" and, collectively, the ""), which shall show, among other things, the amount of estimated funding required by the Partnership for such month to enable the Partnership to (A) comply with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement, and (B) fulfill all of its commitments and to pay all of its liabilities and obligations as such liabilities and obligations mature during such month (collectively, the ""); that none of the Monthly Budgets shall include the payments that the Partnership would be required to make to TWC under the Management Agreement but for this Agreement; and , , the aggregate amounts set forth under clause (A) for all of the Monthly Budgets during any fiscal quarter shall not be less than the estimated Consolidated Cash Flow for the fiscal quarter during which such months occur the sum of (I) the estimated Consolidated Interest Expense for the fiscal quarter during which such months occur to the extent paid or payable in cash on a current basis and (II) the estimated Capital Expenditures incurred or to be incurred for the fiscal quarter during which such months occur to the extent paid or payable in cash (and not financed, other than with borrowings under the Credit Agreement) on a current basis.
Documentation Related to Funding Estimates
Monthly Budget
Monthly Budgets
Partnership Obligations
provided
provided
further
minus
 
4
               (b) .
Documentation of Actual Results
               (i) On or prior to the fifth business day following the end of any month, TWC shall deliver to each of the Partners and the Administrative Agent (A) an unaudited consolidated income statement of the Partnership for the preceding month, complete with comparisons to the Monthly Budget for such month, (B) an unaudited report of actual capital expenditures for the preceding month, as compared to the capital expenditures provided for in the Monthly Budget for such month and (C) an estimate of the amount of additional funds required by the Partnership (if any) to meet the Partnership Obligations, in addition to the amounts already funded by the Partners pursuant to Section 5.
               (ii) On or prior to the fifth business day following the end of any month, TWC shall deliver to each of the Partners and the Administrative Agent an unaudited report of the payments that the Partnership would have been required to make to TWC under the Management Agreement but for this Agreement.
               (iii) On or prior to fifteenth day following termination of this Agreement, TWC shall deliver to each of the Partners and the Administrative Agent (A) an unaudited consolidated income statement of the Partnership for the year-to-date, complete with comparisons to the Annual Budget (as defined in the Agreement of Limited Partnership, dated as of June 23, 1998, by and among the Partners (as amended from time to time, the "")), (B) an unaudited report of actual capital expenditures for the year-to-date, as compared to the capital expenditures provided for in the Annual Budget and (C) a determination of the amount of additional funds required by the Partnership (if any) to meet the Partnership Obligations.
Partnership Agreement
               (c) . All documentation delivered pursuant to this Section 6 shall be certified as true and accurate in all material respects by the Chief Financial Officer of TWC; that any documentation relating to estimates of the Partnership's future funding requirements shall not require such certification but shall be reasonably prepared by TWC in good faith based on assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time made.
Certification of Documentation
provided
               7. . Subject to the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Partnership hereby assigns to TWE-A/N, and TWE-A/N hereby assumes, the Partnership's obligations under the Management Agreement to pay TWC management fees in respect of services provided by TWC to the Partnership during the months of November 2001 through and including December 2002.
Assumption of Management Fee Obligations
               8. . The Partnership covenants and agrees that it will not incur any cash expenditures from the date hereof until December 31, 2002, that are outside of the normal course of business (other than any expenditures set forth in
Limitation on Expenditures
 
5
the Annual Budget of the Partnership approved in accordance with the Partnership Agreement), without the prior written approval of the TCI Parties.
          9. . Each of the parties hereto, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties
               (a) . Such party is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its state of organization and is duly qualified to do business under the laws of each jurisdiction in which the ownership, leasing or use of its assets or the nature of its activities makes such qualification necessary, except in any such jurisdiction where the failure to be so qualified and in good standing would not have a material adverse effect on the ability of such party to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Organization and Qualification
               (b) . Such party has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, this Agreement. The execution and delivery of, and such party's performance under, this Agreement have been duly and validly authorized by all action by or on behalf of such party. This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by such party and is a valid and binding obligation of such party, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms, except as the same may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by principles governing the availability of equitable remedies.
Authority and Validity
               (c) . The execution and delivery of, and such party's performance under, this Agreement do not and will not: (a) conflict with or violate any provision of the organizational documents of such party; (b) violate any laws, rules or regulations applicable to such party; (c) require any consent, approval or authorization of, or filing of any certificate, notice, application, report or other document with, any Governmental Authority or other Person; or (d) (i) conflict with, violate, result in a breach of or constitute a default under (without regard to requirements of notice, lapse of time or elections of other Persons or any combination thereof), (ii) permit or result in the termination, suspension or modification of, (iii) result in the acceleration of (or give any Person the right to accelerate) the performance of it under, or (iv) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien under any contract or agreement by which such party is bound or by which it or any of its assets is bound or affected, except, for purposes of clauses (c) and (d), such consents, approvals, authorizations and filings that, if not obtained or made, would not, and such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults, terminations, suspensions, modifications and accelerations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the ability of such Partner to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
No Conflict; Required Consents
          10. . This Agreement shall terminate on the earlier of (a) January 15, 2003 (or, if later, the date on which each Partner has paid in full its portion of the Partnership Obligations); and (b) such time as the Loans under the
Termination
pro rata
 
6
Credit Agreement shall have been refinanced and the Credit Agreement shall have been terminated.
          11. . The obligations of the Partners under this Agreement are for the benefit of the Lenders under the Credit Agreement as well as the Partnership, are irrevocable and unconditional, shall be paid without set-off or counterclaim and shall not be reduced, terminated or otherwise affected as a result of any event with respect to the Partnership of a type referred to in Section 8(f) of the Credit Agreement or for any other reason. Each Partner waives diligence, presentment, protest, demand for payment and notice of default or nonpayment to or upon the Partnership or any Partner with respect to the obligations of the Partners under this Agreement. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and be binding in accordance with and to the extent of its terms upon the Partners and their successors and assigns thereof until each Partner shall have paid in full its portion of the Partnership Obligations.
Irrevocable Obligation
pro rata
          12. .
Miscellaneous
               (a) . This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior oral or written agreements and understandings with respect to such subject matter. This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a writing signed by all of the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement; Amendments
               (b) . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
Governing Law
               (c) . Any claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be instituted only in a Federal district court located in the State and City of New York or a State court located in Manhattan County, State of New York and each party agrees not to commence legal proceedings or otherwise proceed against any other party in respect of any claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in any other jurisdiction (including in any Federal or State court located in the State of Texas). Each party agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, in any such claim, any claim that it is not subject personally to the jurisdiction of such court, that the claim is brought in an inconvenient forum, that the venue of the claim is improper or that this Agreement or the subject matter hereof may not be enforced in or by such court. Any and all service of process and any other notice in any such claim shall be effective against any party if given personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any other means of mail that requires a signed receipt, postage prepaid, mailed to such party as herein provided, or by personal service on the Agent with a copy of such process mailed to such party by first class mail or registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid.
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
7
               (d) . Any notice or communication to be given under this Agreement to any of the parties hereto shall be in writing. Such notice or communication shall have been deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand, registered airmail or facsimile to the party to which it is addressed at such party's address or facsimile number specified below or at such other address or facsimile number as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or communication.
Notices
     If to TWE-A/N or TWE-A/N GP:
Time Warner Entertainment -   Advance/Newhouse Partnership TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners   General Partner LLC c/o Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902 Attention: David E. O'Hayre Telecopy No: (203) 328-0691
     With a copy to:
Time Warner Entertainment -   Advance/Newhouse Partnership TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners   General Partner LLC c/o Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902 Attention: Marc Apfelbaum Telecopy No.: (203) 328-4840
     If to TCI or TCI GP:
TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC TCI Texas Cable, Inc. c/o Tele-Communications, Inc. 5619 DTC Parkway Englewood, CO 80111 Attention: Fred DiBlasio Telecopy No: (303) 858-3456
Copy: Legal Department
 
8
     With a copy to:
AT&T Corporation 295 North Maple Avenue Basking Ridge, NJ 07920 Attention: Patrick Moletteri, Treasury Department Telecopy No.: (908) 630-1965
     If to the Administrative Agent:
The Chase Manhattan Bank Loan & Agency Services One Chase Manhattan Plaza, 8th Floor New York, New York 10081 Attention: Janet Belden Telecopy No.: (212) 552-5658
     With a copy to:
The Chase Manhattan Bank 270 Park Avenue, 36th Floor New York, New York 10017 Attention: Joan Fitzgibbon Telecopy No.: (212) 270-4164
               (e) . This Agreement binds and benefits the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto, except that no party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the TCI Parties may assign all, but not less than all, of their rights and obligations under this Agreement to any TWE-A/N Party or any Affiliate of a TWE-A/N Party pursuant to a written instrument (a copy of which shall be provided to the Administrative Agent and the Partnership) in which the transferee agrees to be bound by this Agreement.
Assignment
               (f) . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
9
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the date first above written.
 
10
 
 
SCHEDULE I
 
 
12
 
 
13
 
 
14
 
 
 
SCHEDULE II
 
 
EXHIBIT A FORM OF PROMISSORY NOTE
THIS SUBORDINATED PROMISSORY NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE AND MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF EXCEPT PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER SUCH ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS OR PURSUANT TO AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION TO THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH ACT AND SUCH LAWS. PAYMENT OF THIS PROMISSORY NOTE IS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF OCTOBER [___], 2000, BY AND AMONG TEXAS CABLE PARTNERS, L.P., A DELAWARE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, A NATIONAL BANKING ASSOCIATION, THE HOLDER AND THE OTHER SIGNATORIES THERETO (AS AMENDED, SUPPLEMENTED OR OTHERWISE MODIFIED FROM TIME TO TIME), A COPY OF WHICH MAY BE OBTAINED, UPON WRITTEN REQUEST, FROM TEXAS CABLE PARTNERS, L.P., 290 HARBOR DRIVE, STAMFORD, CONNECTICUT 06902, ATTENTION: [].
                    
          FOR VALUE RECEIVED, Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership with offices at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, Connecticut 06902 (the ""), promises to pay to the order of [], a [] (the ""), in lawful money of the United States, the principal sum of [] ($[]), and to pay interest from the date hereof on the unpaid principal amount hereof, in like money, at the Libor Rate for each Interest Period, plus 4% (the ""), on the Maturity Date, and otherwise on the terms set forth below.
Partnership
                    
                    
Holder
                    
                    
Interest Rate
          1. . This Promissory Note (this "") is issued pursuant to the Funding Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2000, among the Partnership, the Holder and the other signatories thereto (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "").
Funding Agreement
Note
Funding Agreement
          2. . The Partnership promises to pay interest on the Outstanding Principal Amount of this Note at the Interest Rate. The Partnership shall pay accrued interest quarterly on each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year or, if any such date shall not be a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day to occur after such date (each date upon which interest shall be so payable, an ""), beginning on []. Unless permitted to
Interest
Interest Payment Date
                    
 
17
be paid in cash by the Subordination Agreement (as defined below), the Partnership shall pay the total amount of interest due on each Interest Payment Date (the "") by automatically having the Outstanding Principal Amount of this Note increase on such Interest Payment Date by the PIK Amount (each such increase, a ""). Interest on this Note shall accrue from the date of issuance until repayment of the principal and payment of all accrued interest in full. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year for actual days elapsed. The Interest Rate shall be adjusted on the first day of each Interest Period, and the holder hereof shall provide notice to the Company within a reasonable time following any such adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2, but subject to applicable law, any overdue principal or overdue interest on this Note shall bear interest, payable on demand in immediately available funds, for each day from the date that such payment of principal or interest was due to the date of actual payment, at the Interest Rate plus 2% per annum, and, upon and during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default, this Note shall bear interest from the date of the occurrence of such Default or Event of Default until such Default or Event of Default is cured or waived, payable on demand in immediately available funds, at the Interest Rate plus 2% per annum.
PIK Amount
Principal Increase
          3. .
Optional Redemption
               (a) The Partnership shall have the right, at any time and from time to time at its sole option and election, to redeem (the "") this Note, in whole but not in part, on not less than 10 days notice of the date of redemption (any such date, a "") at a price (the "") equal to the Outstanding Principal Amount of this Note plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon (other than any such interest which theretofore was a Principal Increase), whether or not currently payable, to the applicable Redemption Date, in immediately available funds.
Redemption
Redemption Date
Redemption Price
               (b) Notice of the Redemption (the "") shall be mailed at least 10 days prior to the Redemption Date to the holder of this Note, at such holder's address as it appears on the transfer books of the Partnership.
Redemption Notice
               (c) On the Redemption Date and upon surrender of this Note for cancellation, the Partnership shall pay the Redemption Price to the holder of this Note. Notwithstanding that this Note shall not have been surrendered for cancellation, from and after the Redemption Date: (i) this Note shall no longer be deemed outstanding, (ii) the right to receive interest thereon shall cease to accrue and (iii) all rights of the holder of this Note shall cease and terminate, excepting only the right to receive the Redemption Price therefor; , , that if the Partnership shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price, this Note shall thereafter be deemed to be outstanding and the holder hereof shall have all of the rights of a holder of this Note until such time as such default shall no longer be continuing.
provided
however
          4. . If an Event of Default occurs, then the Outstanding Principal Amount and all accrued interest on this Note (other than those included in Principal Increase) and all other amounts owing under this Note may be declared (or, in the case of an Event of Default described in clause (ii) or (iii) of the definition thereof,
Default
 
18
shall automatically become) immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which are expressly waived. The holder of this Note may rescind an acceleration and its consequences if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived and if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree. Upon default in performance of any obligations hereunder, the Partnership agrees to pay all costs and expenses of every kind and nature incident to collection, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the holder hereof.
          5. . On the Maturity Date, the Partnership shall pay to the holder the entire Outstanding Principal Amount of this Note plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid interest thereon (other than any such interest which theretofore was a Principal Increase), in immediately available funds.
Outstanding Maturity
          6. . This Note is subordinated to certain other indebtedness of the Partnership to the extent provided in the Subordination Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among the Partnership, the Holder, The Chase Manhattan Bank and the other signatories thereto (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""). The Partnership and the holder of this Note by accepting this Note agree to the subordination provisions contained in the Subordination Agreement.
Subordination
Subordination Agreement
          7. . Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Credit Agreement. As used in this Note, and unless the context requires a different meaning, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
Definitions
          "means Title 11, U.S. Code or any other federal, state or foreign law for the relief of debtors, as any such laws may be amended from time to time.
Bankruptcy Law
"
          "means the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998, among the Partnership, the several banks, financial institutions and other entities from time to time parties to the Credit Agreement, the Syndication Agent and Documentation Agents parties thereto and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as administrative agent (as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time).
Credit Agreement
"
          "means an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
"
          An "with respect to this Note shall occur if:
Event of Default
"
               (i) the Partnership shall default in the payment of any principal or interest on this Note, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at maturity or at a date fixed for prepayment;
 
19
               (ii) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking (a) relief in respect of the Partnership, or of a substantial part of its property or assets, under any Bankruptcy Law, (b) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Partnership, or for a substantial part of its property or assets, or (c) the winding up or liquidation of the Partnership; and such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days, or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; or
               (iii) the Partnership shall (a) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking relief under any Bankruptcy Law, (b) consent to the institution of or the entry of an order for relief against it, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or the filing of any petition described in paragraph (ii) of this definition, (c) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Partnership, or for a substantial part of its property or assets, (d) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (e) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, (f) become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due or (g) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing.
          "means for any period beginning in November or December 2001, the period ending on December 31, 2001 and thereafter each three month period ending on each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31.
Interest Period
"
          "shall mean, for each Interest Period, the three month Libor rate published on the first day of such Interest Period in the .
Libor Rate
"
Wall Street Journal
          "means the date that is one day following the date on which there are no Commitments in effect, no Letter of Credit outstanding and no Loan or other amount then owing to any Lender or any Agent under the Credit Agreement.
Maturity Date
"
          "means the original principal amount of this Note increased by any Principal Increase pursuant to Section 2 hereof.
Outstanding Principal Amount
"
          8. . All notices, demands and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in the manner provided for in the Funding Agreement.
Notices
          9. . No failure on the part of the holder hereof to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Note shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the Partnership and the holder hereof, or in the case of a waiver, the party waiving compliance.
Waiver; Amendment
 
20
          10. . This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State.
Governing Law
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Note as of the [___]th day of , ___.
                    

 
Exhibit 10.16 EXECUTION COPY
          FIRST AMENDMENT, dated as of January 1, 2003 (this ""), to the THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED FUNDING AGREEMENT, dated as of December 28, 2001 (the ""), by and among by and among TEXAS CABLE PARTNERS, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT-ADVANCE/NEWHOUSE PARTNERSHIP, a New York general partnership, TWE-A/N TEXAS CABLE PARTNERS GENERAL PARTNER LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, TCI TEXAS CABLE HOLDINGS LLC, a Colorado limited liability company, TCI TEXAS CABLE, INC., a Colorado corporation, and THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, as administrative agent under the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and solely for the purposes of being bound by Section 4 of this Amendment, AOL TIME WARNER INC., a Delaware corporation (""), and COMCAST CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania corporation (""). Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Funding Agreement.
Amendment
Funding Agreement
AOLTW
Comcast
          WHEREAS, the Partnership, the Partners and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Funding Agreement pursuant to which the Partners have agreed to make, and have made, certain subordinated loans to the Partnership;
          WHEREAS, the Partnership and the Partners desire to amend the Funding Agreement in order to extend it effectiveness.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          1. .
Amendments
     (a) Section 7 of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "December 2002" and inserting in lieu thereof "December 2003."
     (b) Section 8 of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "December 31, 2002" and inserting in lieu thereof "December 31, 2003."
     (c) Section 10 of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "January 15, 2003" and inserting in lieu thereof "January 15, 2004."
     (d) Section 12(d) of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the addresses for notifications to be delivered to TCI or TCI GP and inserting in lieu thereof
 
2
"If to TCI or TCI GP:
TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC TCI Texas Cable, Inc. c/o Comcast Corporation 1500 Market Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102 Attention:           General Counsel Telecopy No.:     (215) 981-7794"
     (e) Schedule 1 to the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Schedule in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the Schedule 1 attached hereto.
          2. .
Issuance and Transfer of Notes Prior to the Date Hereof
     (a) The parties hereto acknowledge that Schedule 1 attached hereto contains a true and accurate list of all promissory notes issued by the Partnership to the Partners pursuant to the Funding Agreement prior to the date hereof (the ""). The Partnership hereby confirms receipt of all proceeds from the issuance of such Promissory Notes and its liability with respect thereto.
Promissory Notes
     (b) Each of the Partnership and the Administrative Agent hereby confirm that it has consented to the assignment of certain of the Promissory Notes among the Partners prior to the date hereof in accordance with the terms of the Funding Agreement.
          3. . Each of the parties hereto, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants that all of the representations and warranties made by such party in the Funding Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof and all references to the Agreement therein shall be deemed to include the Agreement as amended by this Amendment.
Confirmation of Representations and Warranties
          4. . Each of AOLTW and Comcast hereby acknowledge and agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained therein, execution and delivery of this Amendment and performance of the obligations created hereby and by the Funding Agreement, as amended, are approved and permitted under the Restructuring Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2002, by and among AOLTW, AT&T Corp., Comcast and the other parties named therein (the ""), and the other Transaction Agreements (as defined in the Restructuring Agreement).
TWE Restructuring
Restructuring Agreement
          5. . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Funding Agreement shall continue to be and shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms. Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment shall not
Continuing Effect
 
3
by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the parties or the Lenders under the Funding Agreement, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Funding Agreement.
          6. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
Governing Law
          7. . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
4
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the date first above written.
 
5

 
Exhibit 10.17
EXECUTION COPY
          SECOND AMENDMENT, dated as of December 1, 2003 (this ""), to the Third Amended and Restated Funding Agreement, dated as of December 28, 2001, as amended by the First Amendment, dated as of January 1, 2003 (as amended, the ""), by and among Texas Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership (""), TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company (""), TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation (""), TCI of Missouri, Inc. (formerly known as Liberty Cable of Missouri, Inc.), a Missouri corporation (""), TCI of Overland Park, Inc., a Kansas corporation (""), and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, as administrative agent under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) (the ""). Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Funding Agreement.
Amendment
Funding Agreement
Partnership
TWE-A/N
TWE-A/N GP
TWE
TCI
TCI GP
LCM
Overland Park
Administrative Agent
          WHEREAS, the Partnership and the Administrative Agent are parties to a Credit Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "");
Credit Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Partnership, TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI, TCI GP, and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Funding Agreement pursuant to which TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TCI and TCI GP (the "") have agreed to make, and have made, certain subordinated loans to the Partnership;
Original TCP Partners
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (Del. Code. Ann. Tit. 6  17-101 . .), the Colorado Uniform Partnership Act (Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann.  7-64-101 . .) and that certain Agreement of Merger and Transaction Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2003 (the ""), among the Partnership, Kansas City Cable Partners, a Colorado general partnership (""), TWE-A/N, TWE-A/N GP, TWE, TCI, TCI GP, LCM, Overland Park and, solely for the purposes of being bound by Sections 3 and 6(p) of the Transaction Agreement, Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, and Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation, at the Effective Time (as defined in the Transaction Agreement) KCCP will merge with and into the Partnership (the ""), with the Partnership as the surviving limited partnership; and WHEREAS, in connection with the Transaction Agreement, the Partnership, the Original TCP Partners, and the Administrative Agent desire to amend the Funding Agreement in order to, among other things, (i) add TWE, LCM and Overland Park as parties to it and (ii) extend its effectiveness.
et
seq
et
seq
Transaction Agreement
KCCP
Merger
 
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          1. .
Amendments
     (a) The Funding Agreement is hereby amended such that all references in Sections 5, 6, 10 and 11 to "Partners" shall be deemed to mean "Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership, TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company, TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation, TCI of Missouri, Inc. (formerly known as Liberty Cable of Missouri, Inc.), a Missouri corporation, and TCI of Overland Park, Inc., a Kansas corporation, and their respective successors and assigns."
     (b) Section 5(a) of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by adding a proviso at the end of the sentence as follows:
"; that with respect to any Promissory Note to be purchased by any TCI Party as set forth herein, such Promissory Note may be purchased by any other TCI Party as the TCI Parties reasonably determine, subject to Section 5(d).
provided
     (c) Section 5(b) of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by adding a proviso at the end of the first sentence as follows:
"; that with respect to any Promissory Note to be purchased by any TCI Party as set forth herein, such Promissory Note may be purchased by any other TCI Party as the TCI Parties reasonably determine, subject to Section 5(d).
provided
     (d) The Funding Agreement is hereby amended such that all references in Section 5 to "TCI Parties" shall be deemed to mean "TCI Texas Cable Holdings LLC, a Colorado limited liability company, TCI Texas Cable, Inc., a Colorado corporation, TCI of Missouri, Inc. (formerly known as Liberty Cable of Missouri, Inc.), a Missouri corporation, and TCI of Overland Park, Inc., a Kansas corporation, and their respective successors and assigns."
 
     (e) Section 5(c) of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new sentence at the end thereof as follows:
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, from and after the HSR Date with respect to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the Comcast Partners (as such terms are defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement), in lieu of the foregoing, (i) in the event the Partnership shall have entered into the TCI Management Agreement, the Partnership shall issue one Promissory Note to TWE-A/N and one Promissory Note to any TCI Party reasonably determined by the TCI Parties, each in an original principal amount equal to the total amount of payments that the Partnership would have been required to make under the Management Agreement and the TCI Management Agreement, respectively, but for this Agreement and (ii) in the event the Partnership shall not have entered into the TCI Management Agreement, the Partnership shall issue one Promissory Note to TWE-A/N in an original principal amount equal to the total amount of payments that the Partnership would have been required to make under the Management Agreement but for this Agreement; , that in each case, following such HSR Date, no Partner shall be required to purchase any such Promissory Note from any other Partner as contemplated by clause (B) above.
provided
     (f) The Funding Agreement is hereby amended such that all references in Section 5(d) to "TWE-A/N Parties" shall be deemed to mean "Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership, TWE-A/N Texas Cable Partners General Partner LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and their respective successors and assigns."
     (g) Section 5(d) of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
"(d) . For purposes of clarity, it is the intent of the Partners that each Partner provide funding to the Partnership pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with such Partner's Percentage Interest (as set forth on Schedule II hereto) (subject to Sections 5(a) and 5(b) with respect to the TCI Parties), such that, following the making of all additional fundings pursuant to this Agreement, the TWE-A/N Parties, on the one
Intent of the Parties
 
hand, and the TCI Parties, on the other hand (each, a "Partner Group"), will have contributed an aggregate of 50% of all funding under this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, from and after the Selection Date (as defined in the Limited Partnership Agreement), it is the intent of the Partners that (A) each Partner Group provide funding to the Partnership pursuant to this Agreement in an amount equal to the product of (i) such Partner Group's TCP Credit Agreement Percentage (as defined below) multiplied by (ii) the total amount of additional funding required for all periods thereafter by the Partnership to meet the Partnership Obligations and (B) all references in this Agreement to a Partner's "Percentage Interest" shall be amended to refer to such Partner Group's "TCP Credit Agreement Percentage" in lieu thereof; , , that, in the event either Partner Group does not provide any required funding to the Partnership in accordance with clause (A) above (the "defaulting Partner Group") for any period after the Selection Date, the other Partner Group shall provide such funding to the Partnership provided that (x) the aggregate funding required by such other Partner Group shall in no event exceed 50% of the total amount of funding under this Agreement for such period and (y) such other Partner Group shall be entitled to reimbursement from the defaulting Partner Group for amounts so provided. For purposes of this Agreement, "TCP Credit Agreement Percentage" means, as to each Partner Group, the amount expressed as a percentage equal to (i) (x) in the case of the Partner Group that will receive the Houston Asset Pool (this term and each other capitalized term used in this sentence and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Limited Partnership Agreement) in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Dissolution Procedure, the amount of Debt under the Credit Agreement allocated to the Houston Asset Pool as of the Allocation Date and (y) in the case of the Partner Group that will receive the Kansas & SW Asset Pool in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Dissolution Procedure, the amount of Debt under the Credit Agreement allocated to the Kansas & SW Asset Pool as of the Allocation Date divided by (ii) the aggregate amount of Debt under the Credit Agreement as of the Allocation Date.
provided
however
 
     (h) Section 6 of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new clause (d) thereto as follows:
"(d) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (i) any documentation required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 6 shall not include information with respect to the members of the KCCP Trust Group and (ii) Consolidated Cash Flow, Consolidated Interest Expense and Capital Expenditures shall be calculated without regard to the assets, liabilities, results of operations or financial performance of the KCCP Trust Group."
Exclusion of KCCP Trust Group
     (i) Section 7 of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "December 2003" and inserting in lieu thereof the phrase "the month in which the Funding Termination Date (as defined below) occurs."
     (j) Section 8 of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "December 31, 2003" and inserting in lieu thereof the phrase "the Funding Termination Date."
     (k) Section 10 of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following: "This Agreement shall terminate on January 15, 2005 (or, if later, the date on which each Partner has paid in full its portion of the Partnership Obligations) (such date, the "Funding Termination Date"); , that upon the occurrence of the Closing Date under (and as defined in) the Transaction Agreement, the Funding Termination Date shall be automatically extended to the date on which the Loans under the Credit Agreement shall have been repaid and the Credit Agreement shall have been terminated.
provided
     (l) Section 12(d) of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by adding reference to "TWE" after the reference to TWE-A/N and TWE-A/N GP."
     (m) Section 12(d) of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "If to TCI or TCI GP" and inserting in lieu thereof "If to any TCI Party."
     (n) Section 12(e) of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
"(e) . This Agreement binds and benefits the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto, except
Assignment
 
that no party may assign or delegate any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any of the parties hereto may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement in connection with any of the restructuring transactions contemplated by Section 3 of the Transaction Agreement pursuant to a written instrument (a copy of which shall be provided to the Administrative Agent and the Partnership) in which the transferee agrees to be bound by this Agreement and otherwise in accordance with Section 3 of the Transaction Agreement and (ii) the TCI Parties may assign all, but not less than all, of their rights and obligations under this Agreement to any TWE-A/N Party or any Affiliate of a TWE-A/N Party pursuant to a written instrument (a copy of which shall be provided to the Administrative Agent and the Partnership) in which the transferee agrees to be bound by this Agreement.
     (o) Schedule I to the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Schedule in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof Schedule I attached hereto.
     (p) Schedule II to the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by deleting such Schedule in its entirety and substituting in lieu thereof Schedule II attached hereto.
     (q) Each Promissory Note on Schedule I hereto is hereby amended by adding the following after Section 10 of such Promissory Note:
"11. . Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, (i) no Partner shall have any personal liability in respect of any of the Partnership's obligations to the Holder under this Note, and (ii) no partner in a partnership that is a Partner shall have any personal liability in respect of any such obligation of the Partnership. The Holder expressly acknowledges the limitation on recourse contained in this Section 11 and irrevocably waives all rights of recourse to the Partners or any direct or indirect partner of a Partner in respect of any of the Partnership's obligations to the Holder under this Note."
No Recourse
     (r) Exhibit A of the Funding Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following after Section 10 of the Form of Promissory Note:
"11. . Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, (i) no Partner shall have any
No Recourse
 
personal liability in respect of any of the Partnership's obligations to the Holder under this Note, and (ii) no partner in a partnership that is a Partner shall have any personal liability in respect of any such obligation of the Partnership. The Holder expressly acknowledges the limitation on recourse contained in this Section 11 and irrevocably waives all rights of recourse to the Partners or any direct or indirect partner of a Partner in respect of any of the Partnership's obligations to the Holder under this Note."
          2. .
Issuance and Transfer of Notes Prior to the Date Hereof
     (a) The parties hereto acknowledge that Schedule I attached hereto contains a true and accurate list of all promissory notes issued by the Partnership to the Original TCP Partners pursuant to the Funding Agreement prior to the date hereof (the ""). The Partnership hereby confirms receipt of all proceeds from the issuance of such Promissory Notes and its liability with respect thereto.
Promissory Notes
     (b) Each of the Partnership and the Administrative Agent hereby confirm that it has consented to the assignment of certain of the Promissory Notes among the Original TCP Partners prior to the date hereof in accordance with the terms of the Funding Agreement.
          3. .
Representations and Warranties
     (a) Each of TWE, LCM and Overland Park, severally and not jointly, makes the representations and warranties set forth in Section 9 of the Funding Agreement on and as of the Closing Date under (and as defined in) the Transaction Agreement.
     (b) Each of the Partnership, the Original TCP Partners, and the Administrative Agent, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants that all of the representations and warranties made by such party in the Funding Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date under (and as defined in) the Transaction Agreement.
          4. . The amendments contained in subsections (i), (j), (k), (n), (o), (q) and (r) of Section 1 of this Amendment and all other terms and provisions of this Amendment (other than the remaining subsections of Section 1 hereof) shall become effective and binding upon the parties hereto upon the execution and delivery of this Amendment by the parties hereto. The amendments contained in the remaining subsections of Section 1 of this Amendment shall become effective and binding upon the parties hereto upon the occurrence of the Closing Date under (and as defined in) the Transaction Agreement.
Effectiveness
 
          5. . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Funding Agreement shall continue to be and shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms. Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the parties or the Lenders under the Funding Agreement, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Funding Agreement. All references to "this Agreement" in the Funding Agreement shall be deemed to mean the Funding Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.
Continuing Effect
          6. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (other than its rules of conflicts of law to the extent that the application of the laws of another jurisdiction would be required thereby).
Governing Law
          7. . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE II

 
Exhibit 10.35
     EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT made and effective as of August 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), between TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and GLENN BRITT ("You").
     You are currently employed by the Company pursuant to an Employment Agreement between you and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., dated November 30, 2001, as amended by the First Amendment to Employment Agreement made as of March 24, 2003 and by letter dated March 24, 2003 (as so amended, the "Prior Agreement"). The Company wishes to amend and restate the terms of your employment with the Company and to secure your services on a full-time basis for the period to and including December 31. 2009 (the "Term Date") on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, and you are willing to provide such services on and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. You and the Company therefore agree as follows:
     1. . Your "term of employment" as this phrase is used throughout this Agreement, shall be for the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the Term Date, subject, however, to earlier termination as set forth in this Agreement.
Term of Employment
     2. .
Employment
          2.1 . During the term of employment, you shall serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and you shall have the authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities normally associated with such position at the Company and such additional authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities as may be assigned to you from time to time by the Company consistent with your senior position. During the term of employment, your services shall be rendered on a substantially full-time, exclusive basis and you will apply on a substantially full-time basis all of your skill and experience to the performance of your duties. The foregoing shall be subject to the Company's written policies, as in effect from time to time, regarding vacations, holidays, illness and the like and shall not prevent you from devoting such time to your personal affairs as shall not interfere with the performance of your duties hereunder.
General
          2.2 . You shall report to the Board of Directors of the Company ("Board").
Reporting
 
          2.3 . You shall have no other employment and, without the prior written consent of the Board, no outside business activities which require the devotion of substantial amounts of your time.
Other Employment and Activities
          2.4 . The place for the performance of your services shall be the principal executive offices of the Company in the greater Stamford, Connecticut area, subject to such reasonable travel as may be required in the performance of your duties.
Place of Performance
     3. .
Compensation
          3.1 . The Company shall pay you a base salary at the rate of not less than $1,000,000 per annum during the term of employment ("Base Salary"). The Company may increase, but not decrease, your Base Salary during the term of employment. Base Salary shall be paid in accordance with the Company's customary payroll practices.
Base Salary
          3.2 . In addition to Base Salary, the Company typically pays its executives an annual cash bonus ("Bonus"). Although your Bonus is fully discretionary, your target annual Bonus is $5,000,000, but the parties acknowledge that your actual Bonus will vary depending on the actual performance of you and the Company, from a minimum of $0 and up to a maximum Bonus of $6,675,000. Each year, your personal performance will be considered in the context of your executive duties and any individual goals set for you, and your actual Bonus will be determined. Although as a general matter the Company expects to pay bonuses at the target level in cases of satisfactory individual performance, it does not commit to do so, and your Bonus may be negatively affected by the exercise of the Company's discretion or by overall Company performance. Your Bonus amount, if any, will be paid to you between January 1 and March 15 of the calendar year immediately following the performance year in respect of which such Bonus is earned.
Bonus
          3.3 . The Company shall provide you for each year of your term of employment with long term incentive compensation with a target value beginning with calendar year 2007 (the 2006 long term compensation having already been determined in accordance with the Prior Agreement) of approximately $6,000,000 (based on the valuation method used by the Company for its senior executives) through a combination of stock option grants, restricted stock units or other equity-based awards, cash-based long-term plans or other components as may be determined and in such proportions as may be
Long-Term Incentive Compensation
 
determined by the Board from time to time in its sole discretion.
          3.4 . Pursuant to the terms of your previous employment agreements with the Company, you have been paid deferred compensation which has been deposited in a special account (the "Trust Account") maintained on the books of a Time Warner Inc. grantor trust (the "Rabbi Trust") for your benefit. The Trust Account shall be maintained by the trustee (the "Trustee") thereof in accordance with the terms of Annex A attached hereto and the trust agreement (the "Trust Agreement") establishing the Rabbi Trust (which Trust Amendment shall in all respects be consistent with the terms of Annex A), until the full amount which you are entitled to receive therefrom has been paid in full. The Company shall pay all fees and expenses of the Trustee and shall enforce the provisions of the Trust Agreement for your benefit. You shall be entitled to the amounts in the Trust Account irrespective of the reason for your termination of employment with the Company.
Deferred Compensation
          3.5 . You shall be entitled throughout the term of employment in your capacity as an officer or director of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or a member of a governing body of any partnership or joint venture in which Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") or the Company has an equity interest (and after the end of the term of employment, to the extent relating to service during the term of employment) to the benefit of the indemnification provisions contained on the date hereof in the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Company (not including any amendments or additions after the date hereof that limit or narrow, but including any that add to or broaden, the protection afforded to you by those provisions), to the extent not prohibited by applicable law at the time of the assertion of any liability against you. In addition, with respect to services you provided to or on behalf of the predecessor of the Company in your capacity as an officer or director of the predecessor of the Company, consistent with the Prior Agreement, you shall be entitled to the benefit of the applicable indemnification provisions contained in the Agreement of Limited Partnership, dated October 29, 1991, as amended, of such predecessor Company (not including any amendments or additions after the date of execution of the Prior Agreement that limit or narrow, but including any that add to or broaden, the protection afforded to you by those provisions), to the extent not prohibited by applicable law at the time of the assertion of any liability against you.
Indemnification
     4. .
Termination
 
          4.1 . The Company may terminate the term of employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement, other than its obligations set forth below in this Section 4.1, for "cause". Termination by the Company for "cause" shall mean termination because of your (a) conviction (treating a nolo contendere plea as a conviction) of a felony (whether or not any right to appeal has been or may be exercised) other than as a result of a moving violation or a Limited Vicarious Liability (as defined below), (b) willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform your material duties with the Company, including your obligations under this Agreement (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental impairment), (c) willful misappropriation, embezzlement or reckless or willful destruction of Company property, (d) willful and material breach of any statutory or common law duty of loyalty to the Company having a significant adverse financial impact on the Company or on the Company's reputation; (e) intentional and improper conduct materially prejudicial to the business of the Company or any of its affiliates, or (f) willful or material breach of any of the covenants provided for in Section 9 hereof. Such termination shall be effected by written notice thereof delivered by the Company to you and shall be effective as of the date of such notice; provided, however, that if (i) such termination is because of your willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform any one or more of your obligations under this Agreement, (ii) such notice is the first such notice of termination for any reason delivered by the Company to you under this Section 4.1, and (iii) within 15 days following the date of such notice you shall cease your refusal and shall use your best efforts to perform such obligations, the termination shall not be effective. The term "Limited Vicarious Liability" shall mean any liability which is based on acts of the Company for which you are responsible solely as a result of your office(s) with the Company; provided that (x) you are not directly involved in such acts and either had no prior knowledge of such intended actions or, upon obtaining such knowledge, promptly acted reasonably and in good faith to attempt to prevent the acts causing such liability or (y) after consulting with the Company's counsel, you reasonably believed that no law was being violated by such acts.
Termination for Cause
          In the event of termination by the Company for cause, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have at law or in equity, the Company shall have no further obligation to you other than (i) to pay Base Salary through the effective date of termination, (ii) to pay any Bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the date of such termination, and (iii) with respect to any rights you have pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements of the Company. You hereby disclaim
 
any right to receive a pro rata portion of any Bonus with respect to the year in which such termination occurs.
          4.2 . Unless previously terminated pursuant to any other provision of this Agreement and unless a Disability Period shall be in effect, you shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to the Company, to terminate the term of employment effective 15 days after the giving of such notice, if, at the time of the giving of such notice, the Company is in material breach of its obligations under this Agreement; provided, however, that, with the exception of clause (i) below, this Agreement shall not so terminate if such notice is the first such notice of termination delivered by you pursuant to this Section 4.2 and within such 15-day period the Company shall have cured all such material breaches. A material breach by the Company shall include, but not be limited to, (i) the Company violating Section 2 with respect to your title, reporting lines, authority, functions, powers, duties, or place of employment or (ii) the Company failing to cause any successor to all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company expressly to assume the obligations of the Company under this Agreement. In addition, the Company shall be in material breach of its obligations under this Agreement if, in the event that the assets of the Company are directly or indirectly combined (whether by merger, sale, joint venture or otherwise) with the assets of another entity in the cable business, whether or not Time Warner Inc. or the Company has control over the combined entity, you are not offered the position of Chief Executive Officer of such combined entity.
Termination by You for Material Breach by the Company and Termination by the Company Without Cause
          The Company shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to you delivered before the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date, to terminate your employment under this Agreement without cause, which notice shall specify the effective date of such termination. If such notice is delivered on or after the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date, the provision of Section 4.3 shall apply.
               4.2.1 After the effective date of a termination pursuant to this Section 4.2 (a "termination without cause"), you shall receive Base Salary and a pro rata portion of your Average Annual Bonus (as defined below) through the effective date of termination. You will also be entitled to any unpaid Bonus for a year prior to the year which includes the effective date of termination which has been determined pursuant to Section 3.2 (which if not determined, shall be equal to the Average Annual Bonus) and any accrued but unpaid long-term compensation as provided in Section 3.3. Your Average Annual Bonus shall be equal to the average of the regular annual bonus amount (excluding
 
the amount of any special or spot bonuses) in respect of the two calendar years during the most recent five calendar years preceding the year of termination for which the annual bonus received by you from the Company was the greatest; provided, however, that if the Company has previously paid you no full-year annual Bonus under this Agreement, then your Average Annual Bonus shall equal your target Bonus and, if the Company has previously paid you one full-year annual Bonus under this Agreement, then your Average Annual Bonus shall equal the average of such Bonus and your target Bonus. Your pro rata Average Annual Bonus pursuant to this Section 4.2.1 shall be paid to you at the times set forth in Section 4.7.
               4.2.2 After the effective date of a termination without cause, you shall remain an employee of the Company for a period ending on the date (the "Severance Term Date") which is the later of (i) the Term Date and (ii) the date which is 24 months after the effective date of such termination and during such period you shall be entitled to receive, whether or not you become disabled during such period but subject to Section 6, (a) continued payments of your Base Salary (on the Company's normal payroll payment dates as in effect immediately prior to the effective date of your termination without cause) at an annual rate equal to your Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the notice of termination, and (b) an annual Bonus in respect of each calendar year or portion thereof (in which case a pro rata portion of such Bonus will be payable) during such period equal to your Average Annual Bonus. Except as provided in the succeeding sentence, if you accept other full-time employment during such period or notify the Company in writing of your intention to terminate your status as an employee during such period, you shall cease to be an employee of the Company and shall be removed from the payroll of the Company effective upon the commencement of such other employment or the effective date of such termination as specified by you in such notice, whichever is applicable, and you shall be entitled to receive the remaining payments you would have received pursuant to this Section 4.2.2 had you remained on the Company's payroll at the times specified in Section 4.7 of the Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you accept employment with any not-for-profit entity, then you shall be entitled to remain an employee of the Company and receive the payments as provided in the first sentence of this Section 4.2.2; and if you accept full-time employment with any affiliate of the Company, then the payments provided for in this Section 4.2.2 shall immediately cease and you shall not be entitled to any further payments. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "affiliate" shall mean any entity which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company.
 
          4.3 . If at the Term Date, the term of employment shall not have been previously terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, no Disability Period is then in effect and the parties shall not have agreed to an extension or renewal of this Agreement or on the terms of a new employment agreement, then the term of employment shall continue on a month-to-month basis and you shall continue to be employed by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, subject to termination by either party hereto on 60 days written notice delivered to the other party (which notice may be delivered by either party at any time on or after the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date). If the Company shall terminate the term of employment on or after the Term Date for any reason (other than for cause as defined in Section 4.1, in which case Section 4.1 shall apply), which the Company shall have the right to do so long as no Disability Date (as defined in Section 5) has occurred prior to the delivery by the Company of written notice of termination, then such termination shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement to be a "termination without cause" under Section 4.2 and the provisions of Sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 shall apply.
After the Term Date
          4.4 . In the event of a termination without cause or a termination pursuant to Section 4.3, then for the period beginning on the effective date of such termination and ending on the earlier of (a) twelve months thereafter or (b) the date you commence other full-time employment, the Company shall, without charge to you, make available to you office space at or near your principal job location immediately prior to such termination, together with secretarial services, office facilities, services and furnishings, in each case reasonably appropriate to an employee of your position and responsibilities prior to such termination but taking into account your reduced need for such office space, secretarial services and office facilities, services and furnishings as a result of you no longer being a full-time employee.
Office Facilities
          4.5 . Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement relating to a termination without cause and Disability, on the date you first become eligible for normal retirement as defined in any applicable retirement plan (or, if none, any applicable qualified employee benefit plan) of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company (the "Retirement Date"), then this Agreement shall terminate automatically on such date and your employment with the Company shall be governed by the policies generally applicable to employees of the Company, and you shall not thereafter be entitled to the payments provided in this Agreement to the extent not received by you on or prior to the Retirement Date. In addition, no benefits or payments provided in this Agreement relating to termination without cause and Disability shall include any period after the Retirement Date and if the provision of benefits or calculation of payments provided in this
Retirement
 
Agreement with respect thereto would include any period subsequent to the Retirement Date, such provision of benefits shall end on the Retirement Date and the calculation of payments shall cover only the period ending on the Retirement Date.
          4.6 . A condition precedent to the Company's obligation to make the payments associated with a termination without cause shall be your execution and delivery of a release in the form attached hereto as Annex B. If you shall fail to execute and deliver such release, or if you revoke such release as provided therein, then in lieu of the payments provided for herein, you shall receive a severance payment determined in accordance with the Company's policies relating to notice and severance.
Release
          4.7 . In the event of a termination without cause under this Agreement, you shall not be required to seek other employment in order to mitigate your damages hereunder, unless Section 280G of the Code would apply to any payments to you by the Company and your failure to mitigate would result in the Company losing tax deductions to which it would otherwise have been entitled. In such an event, you will engage in whatever mitigation is necessary to preserve the Company's tax deductions. With respect to the preceding sentences, any payments or rights to which you are entitled by reason of the termination of employment without cause shall be considered as damages hereunder. In addition, whether or not you are required to mitigate your damages hereunder, if following a termination without cause you obtain other employment with any entity, other than a not-for-profit entity or government institution, then you shall pay over to the Company the total cash salary and bonus (of any kind) payable to you in connection with such other employment for services during the period prior to the Term Date (whether paid or deferred), at the time received by you, to the extent of the amounts previously paid to you by the Company following your termination with respect to such period, as damages or severance, in excess of the Company's standard policy. (The provisions of the foregoing sentence shall not apply to any equity interest, stock option, phantom or restricted stock or similar benefit received in connection with such other employment).
Mitigation
          4.8 . Payments of Base Salary and Bonus required to be made to you after a termination without cause shall be made at the same times as such payments otherwise would have been paid to you pursuant to Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 4.2 if you had not been terminated; provided, however, that any payment or benefit otherwise required to be made or provided after a termination without cause or after a Time Warner Cable Transaction that the Company reasonably determines is subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code shall not be paid or payment commenced until the later of (a)
Payments
 
six months after the date of your "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) and (b) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the earliest date on which such payments can be made or commenced without violating the requirements of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, you shall be paid, in a single lump sum, an amount equal to the aggregate amount of all payments delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence.
     5. .
Disability
          5.1 . If during the term of employment and prior to the delivery of any notice of termination without cause, you become physically or mentally disabled, whether totally or partially, so that you are prevented from performing your usual duties for a period of six consecutive months, or for shorter periods aggregating six months in any twelve-month period, the Company shall, nevertheless, continue to pay your full compensation through the last day of the sixth consecutive month of disability or the date on which the shorter periods of disability shall have equaled a total of six months in any twelve-month period (such last day or date being referred to herein as the "Disability Date"), subject to Section 4.7. If you have not resumed your usual duties on or prior to the Disability Date, the Company shall pay you a pro rata Bonus (based on your Average Annual Bonus) for the year in which the Disability Date occurs and thereafter shall pay you disability benefits for the period ending on the later of (i) the Term Date or (ii) the date which is twelve months after the Disability Date (in the case of either (i) or (ii), the "Disability Period"), in an annual amount equal to 75% of (a) your Base Salary at the time you become disabled and (b) the Average Annual Bonus, in each case, subject to Section 4.7.
Disability Payments
          5.2 . If during the Disability Period you shall fully recover from your disability, the Company shall have the right (exercisable within 60 days after notice from you of such recovery), but not the obligation, to restore you to full-time service at full compensation. If the Company elects to restore you to full-time service, then this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all respects and the Term Date shall not be extended by virtue of the occurrence of the Disability Period. If the Company elects not to restore you to full-time service, you shall be entitled to obtain other employment, subject, however, to the following: (i) you shall perform advisory services during any balance of the Disability Period; and (ii) you shall comply with the provisions of Sections 9 and 10 during the Disability Period. The advisory services referred to in clause (i) of the immediately preceding sentence shall consist of rendering advice concerning the business, affairs and management of the Company as requested by
Recovery from Disability
 
the Board but you shall not be required to devote more than five days (up to eight hours per day) each month to such services, which shall be performed at a time and place mutually convenient to both parties. Any income from such other employment shall not be applied to reduce the Company's obligations under this Agreement.
          5.3 . The Company shall be entitled to deduct from all payments to be made to you during the Disability Period pursuant to this Section 5 an amount equal to all disability payments received by you during the Disability Period from Worker's Compensation, Social Security and disability insurance policies maintained by the Company; provided, however, that for so long as, and to the extent that, proceeds paid to you from such disability insurance policies are not includible in your income for federal income tax purposes, the Company's deduction with respect to such payments shall be equal to the product of (i) such payments and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is one less the maximum marginal rate of federal income taxes applicable to individuals at the time of receipt of such payments. All payments made under this Section 5 after the Disability Date are intended to be disability payments, regardless of the manner in which they are computed. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5, the term of employment shall continue during the Disability Period and you shall be entitled to all of the rights and benefits provided for in this Agreement, except that Sections 4.2 and 4.3 shall not apply during the Disability Period and unless the Company has restored you to full-time service at full compensation prior to the end of the Disability Period, the term of employment shall end and you shall cease to be an employee of the Company at the end of the Disability Period and shall not be entitled to notice and severance or to receive or be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical.
Other Disability Provisions
     6. . If you die during the term of employment, this Agreement and all obligations of the Company to make any payments hereunder shall terminate except that your estate (or a designated beneficiary) shall be entitled to receive Base Salary to the last day of the month in which your death occurs, any unpaid Bonus award with respect to a year prior to your death (if not previously determined, based on Average Annual Bonus), and Bonus compensation (at the time bonuses are normally paid) based on the Average Annual Bonus, but prorated according to the number of whole or partial months you were employed by the Company in such calendar year. For the purposes of clarity, it is intended that any vested rights you or your beneficiaries may have at the time of your death or as a result of your death pursuant to any insurance or benefit and incentive plans or arrangements of the Company or Time Warner or any benefit and incentive plans
Death
 
described in Section 8 shall be governed by the terms and provisions of such insurance or benefit and incentive plans and arrangements.
     7. . During your employment with the Company, the Company shall (i) provide you with $50,000 of group life insurance and (ii) pay you annually an amount equal to two times the premium you would have to pay to obtain life insurance under the Group Universal Life ("GUL") insurance program made available by the Company in an amount equal to $4,000,000. You shall be under no obligation to use the payments made by the Company pursuant to the preceding sentence to purchase GUL insurance or to purchase any other life insurance. If the Company discontinues its GUL insurance program, the Company shall nevertheless make the payments required by this Section 7 as if such program were still in effect. The payments made to you hereunder shall not be considered as "salary" or "compensation" or "bonus" in determining the amount of any payment under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing or other benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.
Insurance
     8. .
Other Benefits
          8.1 . To the extent that (a) you are eligible under the general provisions thereof (including without limitation, any plan provision providing for participation to be limited to persons who were employees of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries prior to a specific point in time) and (b) the Company maintains such plan or program for the benefit of its executives, during the term of employment and so long as you are an employee of the Company, you shall be eligible to participate in any pension, excess plan, profit-sharing, savings, or similar plan or program and in any group life insurance (to the extent set forth in Section 7), hospitalization, medical, dental, accident, disability or similar plan or program of the Company now existing or established hereafter for its senior corporate executives. For the purpose of clarity, you shall be entitled during the term of employment and so long as you are an employee of the Company, to receive other benefits generally available to all senior executives of the Company to the extent you are eligible under the general provisions thereof, including, without limitation, to the extent maintained in effect by the Company for its senior executives, an automobile allowance and financial services.
General Availability
          8.2 . During the period you remain on the payroll of the Company after a termination without cause or during the Disability Period, you shall continue to be an employee of the Company and shall continue to be eligible to participate in the benefit plans and to receive the benefits
Benefits After a Termination or Disability
 
required to be provided to you under this Agreement to the extent such benefits are maintained in effect by the Company for its executives; provided, however, you shall not be entitled to any additional awards or grants under any stock option, restricted stock or other stock based incentive plan. At the time you leave the payroll of the Company, your rights to benefits and payments under any benefit plans or any insurance or other death benefit plans or arrangements of the Company or under any stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right, bonus unit, management incentive or other plan of the Company shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plans and any agreements under which such stock options, restricted stock or other awards were granted. However, notwithstanding the foregoing or any more restrictive provisions of any such plan or agreement, if your employment with the Company is terminated as a result of a termination pursuant to Section 4.2, then, except if you shall otherwise qualify for retirement under the terms of the applicable stock option agreement, consistent with the terms of the Prior Agreement, (i) all stock options granted to you by Time Warner shall continue to vest, and any such vested stock options shall remain exercisable (but not beyond the term of such options) while you are on the payroll of the Company, (ii) all stock options granted to you by Time Warner on or after January 10, 2000 (which options are collective referred to as your "Term Options") which would have vested on or before the Severance Term Date (or the comparable date under any employment agreement that amends, replaces or supersedes this Agreement) shall vest and become immediately exercisable upon the date you leave the payroll of the Company, (iii) all your vested Term Options shall remain exercisable for a period of three years after the date you leave the payroll of the Company (but not beyond the term of such options), and (iv) neither the Company nor Time Warner shall be permitted to determine that your employment was terminated for "unsatisfactory performance" within the meaning of any stock option agreement between you and Time Warner.
          8.3 . In the event the term of employment and your employment with the Company is terminated pursuant to any section of this Agreement, you shall not be entitled to notice and severance under the Company's general employee policies or to be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical, the payments provided for in such sections being in lieu thereof.
Payments in Lieu of Other Benefits
          8.4 . Consistent with the terms of the Prior Agreement and for the purposes of clarity, if a Time Warner Cable Transaction (as defined below) occurs, then with respect to the Time Warner stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other Time Warner equity-based awards held by you on the date the Time Warner Cable Transaction closes, the treatment of such equity awards
Time Warner Cable Transaction
 
will be equivalent to the treatment that would apply pursuant to Section 8.2 if your employment with the Company had been terminated without cause pursuant to Section 4.2 concurrent with the closing of such a Time Warner Cable Transaction and you had left the payroll of the Company on the same date, regardless of your actual employment status with the Company. Accordingly, in such event, except if you shall otherwise qualify for retirement under the terms of the applicable stock option agreement, (i) the Term Options that would have vested on or before the Term Date (or the comparable date under any employment agreement that amends, replaces or supersedes this Agreement) shall vest and become immediately exercisable on the closing date of such a Time Warner Cable Transaction, (ii) all vested Term Options shall remain exercisable for a period of three years after the closing date of such a Time Warner Cable Transaction (but not beyond the term of such options) and (iii) the treatment of any unvested awards of restricted stock, restricted stock units or other Time Warner equity-based award shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plans and any agreements under which such restricted stock, restricted stock units or other awards were granted, based on the assumption that your employment terminated without cause on the closing date of such a Time Warner Cable Transaction, i.e., pro-rated vesting of the next installment of such awards. If this Section 8.4 shall become applicable as a result of a Time Warner Cable Transaction, then the benefits and treatment provided for in this Section 8.4 with respect to stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other equity-based awards shall replace and supersede in all respects the treatment provided in Section 8.2, and you will not receive any additional benefits pursuant to Section 8.2 with respect to Time Warner equity-based awards if your employment with the Company is terminated following or in connection with a Time Warner Cable Inc. Transaction. A "Time Warner Cable Transaction" shall mean (a) a transaction the result of which is the Company ceases to be a consolidated subsidiary of Time Warner, whether due to the sale, transfer or distribution of stock, a merger, the contribution of stock to a joint venture or for any other reason, or (b) any sale, transfer or other disposition by Time Warner of all or substantially all of the Company's business and assets, whether by merger, sale of stock or assets, formation of a joint venture or otherwise, as the case may be, other than any such sales, transfers or dispositions following which the financial results of all or substantially all of the Company's business continues to be consolidated with the financial results of Time Warner in the periodic reports filed by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
          8.5 Within thirty days following the earlier of (i) the date you leave the payroll of the Company as a result of a termination without cause or a termination pursuant to Section 4.3, or (ii) a Time Warner Cable Transaction, the
 
Company shall make a cash payment to you equal to the value of any restricted stock granted to you during your employment with the Company that were forfeited as a result of such termination or the Time Warner Cable Transaction, based on the fair market value of the stock on the effective date of such termination or the close of the Time Warner Cable Transaction.
          8.6 To the extent that the benefits you would have received upon retirement under the Time Warner Pension PlanTWE or any successor plan ("TWE Plan"), including any excess benefits attributed to your participation in the TWE Plan (but not including retiree medical benefits, which are the subject of a separate agreement between you and Time Warner), had you continued to remain a participant in the TWE Plan during the term of your employment, are more generous than those available to you from the Company, the Company will provide you the financial equivalent of such additional benefits.
     9. .
Protection of Confidential Information; Non-Compete
          9.1 . You acknowledge that your employment by the Company (which, for purposes of this Section 9.1 shall mean Time Warner Inc. and its affiliates) will, throughout the term of employment, bring you into close contact with many confidential affairs of the Company, including information about costs, profits, markets, sales, products, key personnel, pricing policies, operational methods, technical processes and other business affairs and methods and other information not readily available to the public, and plans for future development. You further acknowledge that the services to be performed under this Agreement are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character. You further acknowledge that the business of the Company is international in scope, that its products and services are marketed throughout the world, that the Company competes in nearly all of its business activities with other entities that are or could be located in nearly any part of the world and that the nature of your services, position and expertise are such that you are capable of competing with the Company from nearly any location in the world. In recognition of the foregoing, you covenant and agree:
Confidentiality Covenant
               9.1.1 You shall keep secret all confidential matters of the Company and shall not disclose such matters to anyone outside of the Company, or to anyone inside the Company who does not have a need to know or use such information, and shall not use such information for personal benefit or the benefit of a third party, either during or after the term of employment, except with the Company's written consent,
 
provided that (i) you shall have no such obligation to the extent such matters are or become publicly known other than as a result of your breach of your obligations hereunder and (ii) you may, after giving prior notice to the Company to the extent practicable under the circumstances, disclose such matters to the extent required by applicable laws or governmental regulations or judicial or regulatory process;
               9.1.2 You shall deliver promptly to the Company on termination of your employment, or at any other time the Company may so request, all memoranda, notes, records, reports and other documents (and all copies thereof) relating to the Company's business, which you obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting on behalf of, the Company and which you may then possess or have under your control; and
               9.1.3 If the term of employment is terminated pursuant to Section 4, for a period of one year after such termination, without the prior written consent of the Company, you shall not employ, and shall not cause any entity of which you are an affiliate to employ, any person who was a full-time employee of the Company at the date of such termination or within six months prior thereto but such prohibition shall not apply to your secretary or executive assistant or to any other employee eligible to receive overtime pay.
          9.2 . During the term of employment and through the later of (i) the Term Date, (ii) the date you leave the payroll of the Company, and (iii) twelve months after the effective date of any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Section 4, you shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Board of the Company, render any services to, or act in any capacity for, any person or entity which is in competition with the Company, or acquire any interest of any type in any such person or entity; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be deemed to prohibit you from acquiring, (a) solely as an investment and through market purchases, securities of any Competitive Entity which are registered under Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and which are publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity and (b) securities of any Competitive Entity that are not publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than three percent (3%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity. For purposes of the foregoing, a person or entity is deemed to be in competition with the Company if such person or
Non-Compete
 
entity engages in any line of business that is substantially the same as either (i) any line of business which the Company engages in, conducts or, to your knowledge, has definitive plans to engage in or conduct or (ii) any operating business that is engaged in or conducted by the Company as to which, to your knowledge, the Company covenants, in writing, not to compete with in connection with the disposition of such business.
     10. . You acknowledge that during the term of employment, you may conceive of, discover, invent or create inventions, improvements, new contributions, literary property, material, ideas and discoveries, whether patentable or copyrightable or not (all of the foregoing being collectively referred to herein as "Work Product"), and that various business opportunities shall be presented to you by reason of your employment by the Company. You acknowledge that all of the foregoing shall be owned by and belong exclusively to the Company and that you shall have no personal interest therein, provided that they are either related in any manner to the business (commercial or experimental) of the Company, or are, in the case of Work Product, conceived or made on the Company's time or with the use of the Company's facilities or materials, or, in the case of business opportunities, are presented to you for the possible interest or participation of the Company. You shall (i) promptly disclose any such Work Product and business opportunities to the Company; (ii) assign to the Company, upon request and without additional compensation, the entire rights to such Work Product and business opportunities; (iii) sign all papers necessary to carry out the foregoing; and (iv) give testimony in support of your inventorship or creation in any appropriate case. You agree that you will not assert any rights to any Work Product or business opportunity as having been made or acquired by you prior to the date of this Agreement except for Work Product or business opportunities, if any, disclosed to and acknowledged by the Company in writing prior to the date hereof.
Ownership of Work Product
     11. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be effective only if given in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service, or mailed first-class, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail, as follows (or to such other or additional address as either party shall designate by notice in writing to the other in accordance herewith):
Notices
 
          11.1 If to the Company:
Time Warner Cable Inc. 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, Connecticut 06902 Attention: General Counsel
with a copy to:
Time Warner Inc. One Time Warner Center New York, New York 10019 Attention: General Counsel
          11.2 If to you, to your residence address set forth on the records of the Company, with a copy to:
Paul M. Ritter, Esq. Kronish Lieb Weiner & Hellman LLP 1114 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10036
     12. .
General
          12.1 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely in New York.
Governing Law
          12.2 . The section headings contained herein are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Captions
          12.3 . This Agreement, including Annexes A and B, set forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, written or oral, between the parties.
Entire Agreement
          12.4 . No representation, promise or inducement has been made by either party that is not embodied in this Agreement, and neither party shall be bound by or be liable for any alleged representation, promise or inducement not so set forth.
No Other Representations
 
          12.5 . This Agreement and your rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by you and except as specifically contemplated in this Agreement, neither you, your legal representative nor any beneficiary designated by you shall have any right, without the prior written consent of the Company, to assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate, anticipate or commute to any person or entity any payment due in the future pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, and any attempt to do so shall be void and shall not be recognized by Time Warner or the Company. Time Warner shall assign its rights together with its obligations hereunder in connection with any sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of Time Warner's business and assets, whether by merger, purchase of stock or assets or otherwise, as the case may be. Upon any such assignment, Time Warner shall cause any such successor expressly to assume such obligations, and such rights and obligations shall inure to and be binding upon any such successor. In the event of a Time Warner Cable Transaction (as defined in Section 8.4), the Company may assign its rights together with its obligations hereunder (a) to Time Warner with the prior written consent of Time Warner (which may be given or withheld in the sole discretion of Time Warner) and (b) to the successor to the Company if the rights and obligations do not transfer automatically by operation of law to such successor to the Company.
Assignability
          12.6 . This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded, cancelled, renewed or extended and the terms or covenants hereof may be waived only by written instrument executed by both of the parties hereto, or in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance. The failure of either party at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect such party's right at a later time to enforce the same. No waiver by either party of the breach of any term or covenant contained in this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be, or construed as, a further or continuing waiver of any such breach, or a waiver of the breach of any other term or covenant contained in this Agreement.
Amendments; Waivers
          12.7 . In addition to such other rights and remedies as the Company may have at equity or in law with respect to any breach of this Agreement, if you commit a material breach of any of the provisions of Sections 9.1, 9.2, or 10, the Company shall have the right and remedy to have such provisions specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction, it being acknowledged and agreed that any such breach or threatened breach will cause irreparable injury to the Company.
Specific Remedy
 
          12.8 . Except as provided in the preceding Section 12.7, any dispute or controversy arising with respect to this Agreement and your employment hereunder (whether based on contract or tort or upon any federal, state or local statute, including but not limited to claims asserted under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, any state Fair Employment Practices Act and/or the Americans with Disability Act) shall, at the election of either you or the Company, be submitted to JAMS/ENDISPUTE for resolution in arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of JAMS/ENDISPUTE. Either party shall make such election by delivering written notice thereof to the other party at any time (but not later than 45 days after such party receives notice of the commencement of any administrative or regulatory proceeding or the filing of any lawsuit relating to any such dispute or controversy) and thereupon any such dispute or controversy shall be resolved only in accordance with the provisions of this Section 12.8. Any such proceedings shall take place in New York City before a single arbitrator (rather than a panel of arbitrators), pursuant to any streamlined or expedited (rather than a comprehensive) arbitration process, before a non-judicial (rather than a judicial) arbitrator, and in accordance with an arbitration process which, in the judgment of such arbitrator, shall have the effect of reasonably limiting or reducing the cost of such arbitration. The resolution of any such dispute or controversy by the arbitrator appointed in accordance with the procedures of JAMS/ENDISPUTE shall be final and binding. Judgment upon the award rendered by such arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof, and the parties consent to the jurisdiction of the New York courts for this purpose. The prevailing party shall be entitled to recover the costs of arbitration (including reasonable attorneys fees and the fees of experts) from the losing party. If at the time any dispute or controversy arises with respect to this Agreement, JAMS/ENDISPUTE is not in business or is no longer providing arbitration services, then the American Arbitration Association shall be substituted for JAMS/ENDISPUTE for the purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Section 12.8. If you shall be the prevailing party in such arbitration, the Company shall promptly pay, upon your demand, all legal fees, court costs and other costs and expenses incurred by you in any legal action seeking to enforce the award in any court.
Resolution of Disputes
          12.9 . Whenever this Agreement provides for any payment to your estate, such payment may be made instead to such beneficiary or beneficiaries as you may designate by written notice to the Company. You shall have the right to revoke any such designation and to redesignate a beneficiary or beneficiaries by written notice to the Company (and to any applicable insurance company) to such effect.
Beneficiaries
 
          12.10 . You represent and warrant to the Company that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon you and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of your obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which you are a party (including, without limitation, any other employment agreement). The Company represents and warrants to you that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon the Company and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which the Company is a party.
No Conflict
          12.11 . Payments made to you pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to withholding and social security taxes and other ordinary and customary payroll deductions.
Withholding Taxes
          12.12 . Neither you nor the Company shall have any right to offset any amounts owed by one party hereunder against amounts owed or claimed to be owed to such party, whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise, and you and the Company shall make all the payments provided for in this Agreement in a timely manner.
No Offset
          12.13 . If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby; provided, however, that the parties shall negotiate in good faith with respect to equitable modification of the provision or application thereof held to be invalid. To the extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, each party hereby waives any provision of law which renders any provision of this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect.
Severability
          12.14 . Sections 3.4, 8.3 and 9 through 12 shall survive any termination of the term of employment by the Company for cause pursuant to Section 4.1. Sections 3.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 8 through 12 shall survive any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Sections 4.2, 5 or 6.
Survival
          12.16 . The following terms are defined in this Agreement in the places indicated:
Definitions
 
affiliate  Section 4.2.2 Average Annual Bonus  Section 4.2.1 Base Salary  Section 3.1 Bonus  Section 3.2 cause  Section 4.1 Code  Section 4.2.2 Company  the first paragraph on page 1 and Section 9.1 Competitive Entity  Section 9.2 Disability Date  Section 5 Disability Period  Section 5 Effective Date  the first paragraph on page 1 Prior Agreement  the second paragraph on page 1 Severance Term Date  Section 4.2.2 Term Date  Section 1 Term Options  Section 8.2 term of employment  Section 1 termination without cause  Section 4.2.1 Time Warner Cable Transaction  Section 8.4 Work Product  Section 10
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
ANNEX A
     A.1 . Funds credited to the Trust Account shall be actually invested and reinvested in a Trust Account in securities selected from time to time by an investment advisor designated from time to time by the Company (the "Investment Advisor"), substantially all of which securities shall be "eligible securities". The designation from time to time by the Company of an Investment Advisor shall be subject to the approval of Executive, which approval shall not be withheld unreasonably. "Eligible securities" are common and preferred stocks, warrants to purchase common or preferred stocks, put and call options, and corporate or governmental bonds, notes and debentures, either listed on a national securities exchange or for which price quotations are published in newspapers of general circulation, including and certificates of deposit. Eligible securities shall not include the common or preferred stock, any warrants, options or rights to purchase common or preferred stock or the notes or debentures of the Company or any corporation or other entity of which the Company owns directly or indirectly 5% or more of any class of outstanding equity securities. The Investment Advisor shall have the right, from time to time, to designate eligible securities which shall be actually purchased and sold for the Trust Account on the date of reference. Such purchases may be made on margin; provided that the Company may, from time to time, by written notice to Executive, the Trustee and the Investment Advisor, limit or prohibit margin purchases in any manner it deems prudent and, upon three business days written notice to Executive, the Trustee and the Investment Advisor, cause all eligible securities theretofore purchased on margin to be sold. The Investment Advisor shall send notification to Executive or the Trustee in writing of each transaction within five business days thereafter and shall render to Executive or the Trustee written quarterly reports as to the current status of his Trust Account. In the case of any purchase, the Trust Account shall be charged with a dollar amount equal to the quantity and kind of securities purchased multiplied by the fair market value of such securities on the date of reference and shall be credited with the quantity and kind of securities so purchased. In the case of any sale, the Trust Account shall be charged with the
Investments
The Wall Street Journal
 
quantity and kind of securities sold, and shall be credited with a dollar amount equal to the quantity and kind of securities sold multiplied by the fair market value of such securities on the date of reference. Such charges and credits to the Trust Account shall take place immediately upon the consummation of the transactions to which they relate. As used herein "fair market value" means either (i) if the security is actually purchased or sold by the Rabbi Trust on the date of reference, the actual purchase or sale price per security to the Rabbi Trust or (ii) if the security is not purchased or sold on the date of reference, in the case of a listed security, the closing price per security on the date of reference, or if there were no sales on such date, then the closing price per security on the nearest preceding day on which there were such sales, and, in the case of an unlisted security, the mean between the bid and asked prices per security on the date of reference, or if no such prices are available for such date, then the mean between the bid and asked prices per security on the nearest preceding day for which such prices are available. If no bid or asked price information is available with respect to a particular security, the price quoted to the Trustee as the value of such security on the date of reference (or the nearest preceding date for which such information is available) shall be used for purposes of administering the Trust Account, including determining the fair market value of such security. The Trust Account shall be charged currently with all interest paid by the Trust Account with respect to any credit extended to the Trust Account. Such interest shall be charged to the Trust Account, for margin purchases actually made, at the rates and times actually paid by the Trust Account. The Company may, in the Company's sole discretion, from time to time serve as the lender with respect to any margin transactions by notice to the then Investment Advisor and the Trustee and in such case interest shall be charged at the rate and times then charged by an investment banking firm designated by the Company with which the Company does significant business. Brokerage fees shall be charged to the Trust Account at the rates and times actually paid.
     A.2 . The Trust Account shall be credited with dollar amounts equal to cash dividends paid from time to time upon the stocks held therein. Dividends shall be credited as of the payment date. The Trust Account shall similarly be credited with interest payable on interest bearing securities held therein. Interest shall be
Dividends and Interest
 
credited as of the payment date, except that in the case of purchases of interest-bearing securities the Trust Account shall be charged with the dollar amount of interest accrued to the date of purchase, and in the case of sales of such interest-bearing securities the Trust Account shall be credited with the dollar amount of interest accrued to the date of sale. All dollar amounts of dividends or interest credited to the Trust Account pursuant to this Section A.2 shall be charged with all taxes thereon deemed payable by the Company (as and when determined pursuant to Section A.5). The Investment Advisor shall have the same right with respect to the investment and reinvestment of net dividends and net interest as he has with respect to the balance of the Trust Account.
     A.3 . The Trust Account shall be equitably adjusted to reflect stock dividends, stock splits, recapitalizations, mergers, consolidations, reorganizations and other changes affecting the securities held therein.
Adjustments
     A.4 . The Trust Account shall be charged with all taxes (including stock transfer taxes), interest, brokerage fees and investment advisory fees, if any, payable by the Company and attributable to the purchase or disposition of securities designated by the Investment Advisor (in all cases net after any tax benefits that the Company would be deemed to derive from the payment thereof, as and when determined pursuant to Section A.5), but no other costs of the Company. Subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement, the securities purchased for the Trust Account as designated by the Investment Advisor shall remain the sole property of the Company, subject to the claims of its general creditors, as provided in the Trust Agreement. Neither Executive nor his legal representative nor any beneficiary designated by Executive shall have any right, other than the right of an unsecured general creditor, against the Company or the Trust in respect of any portion of the Trust Account.
Obligation of the Company
     A.5 . The Trust Account shall be charged with all federal, state and local taxes deemed payable by the Company with respect to income recognized upon the dividends and interest received by the Trust Account pursuant to Section A.2 and gains recognized upon sales of any of the securities which are sold pursuant to Section A.1, A.6
Taxes
 
or A.7. The Trust Account shall be credited with the amount of the tax benefit received by the Company as a result of any payment of interest actually made pursuant to Section A.1 or A.2 and as a result of any payment of brokerage fees and investment advisory fees made pursuant to Section A.1. If any of the sales of the securities which are sold pursuant to Section A.1, A.6 or A.7 results in a loss to the Trust Account, such net loss shall be deemed to offset the income and gains referred to in the second preceding sentence (and thus reduce the charge for taxes referred to therein) to the extent then permitted under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and under applicable state and local income and franchise tax laws (collectively referred to as "Applicable Tax Law"); provided, however, that for the purposes of this Section A.5 the Trust Account shall, except as provided in the third following sentence, be deemed to be a separate corporate taxpayer and the losses referred to above shall be deemed to offset only the income and gains referred to in the second preceding sentence. Such losses shall be carried back and carried forward within the Trust Account to the extent permitted by Applicable Tax Law in order to minimize the taxes deemed payable on such income and gains within the Trust Account. For the purposes of this Section A.5, all charges and credits to the Trust Account for taxes shall be deemed to be made as of the end of the Company's taxable year during which the transactions, from which the liabilities for such taxes are deemed to have arisen, are deemed to have occurred. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and to the extent that in any year there is a net loss in the Trust Account that cannot be offset against income and gains in any prior year, then an amount equal to the tax benefit to the Company of such net loss (after such net loss is reduced by the amount of any net capital loss of the Trust Account for such year) shall be credited to the Trust Account on the last day of such year. If and to the extent that any such net loss of the Trust Account shall be utilized to determine a credit to the Trust Account pursuant to the preceding sentence, it shall not thereafter be carried forward under this Section A.5. For purposes of determining taxes payable by the Company under any provision of this Annex A it shall be assumed that the Company is a taxpayer and pays all taxes at the maximum marginal rate of federal income taxes and state and local income and franchise taxes (net of assumed federal income tax benefits) applicable to business corporations and that all of such dividends, interest, gains
 
and losses are allocable to its corporate headquarters, which are currently located in New York City.
     A.6 So long as Executive is an employee of the Company, Executive shall have the right to elect at any time, but only once during Executive's lifetime, by written notice to the Company to transfer to the Deferred Plan all or a portion of the Net Transferable Balance (determined as provided in the next sentence) of the Trust Account. If Executive shall make such an election, the Net Transferable Balance shall be determined as of the end of the calendar quarter following the date of such election (unless such election is made during the ten calendar days following the end of a calendar quarter, in which case such determination shall be made as of the end of such preceding calendar quarter) by adjusting all of the securities held in the Trust Account to their fair market value (net of the tax adjustment that would be made thereon if sold, as estimated by the Company or the Trustee) and by deducting from such value the amount of all outstanding indebtedness and any other amounts payable by the Trust Account. Transfers to the Deferred Plan shall be made in cash as promptly as reasonably practicable after the end of such calendar quarter and the Investment Advisor (or the Company or the Trustee if the Investment Advisor shall fail to act in a timely manner) shall cause securities held in the Trust Account to be sold to provide cash equal to the portion of the Net Transferable Balance of the Trust Account selected to be transferred by Executive. If Executive elects to transfer more than 75% of the Net Transferable Balance of the Trust Account to the Deferred Plan, the Company or the Trustee shall be permitted to take such action as they may deem reasonably appropriate, including but not limited to, retaining a portion of such Net Transferable Balance in the Trust Account, to ensure that the Trust Account will have sufficient assets to pay the Company the amount of taxes payable on such sales of securities at the end of the year in which such sales are made.
One-Time Transfer to Deferred Plan.
     A.7 . Subject to the provisions of Section A.8, payments of deferred compensation shall be made as provided in this Section A.7. Unless Executive makes the election referred to in the next succeeding sentence, deferred compensation shall be paid biweekly for a period of 120 months (the "Pay-Out Period") commencing on the first
Payments
 
Company payroll date in the month after the later of (i) the Term Date and (ii) the date Executive ceases to be an employee of the Company and leaves the payroll of the Company for any reason, provided, however, that if Executive was named in the compensation table in Outlaw's then most recent proxy statement, such payments shall commence on the first Company payroll date in January of the year following the year in which the latest of such events occurs. Executive may elect a shorter Pay-Out Period by delivering written notice to the Company or the Trustee at least one year prior to the commencement of the Pay-Out Period, which notice shall specify the shorter Pay-Out Period. On each payment date, the Trust Account shall be charged with the dollar amount of such payment. On each payment date, the amount of cash held in the Trust Account shall be not less than the payment then due and the Company or the Trustee may select the securities to be sold to provide such cash if the Investment Advisor shall fail to do so on a timely basis. The amount of any taxes payable with respect to any such sales shall be computed, as provided in Section A.5 above, and deducted from the Trust Account, as of the end of the taxable year of the Company during which such sales are deemed to have occurred. Solely for the purpose of determining the amount of payments during the Pay-Out Period, the Trust Account shall be valued on the fifth trading day prior to the end of the month preceding the first payment of each year of the Pay-Out Period, or more frequently at the Company's or the Trustee's election (the "Valuation Date"), by adjusting all of the securities held in the Trust Account to their fair market value (net of the tax adjustment that would be made thereon if sold, as estimated by the Company or the Trustee) and by deducting from the Trust Account the amount of all outstanding indebtedness and all amounts with respect to which Executive has elected pursuant to clause (ii) of Section A.8 to receive payments at times different from the time provided in this Section A.7 (the "Other Period Deferred Amount"). The extent, if any, by which the Trust Account, valued as provided in the immediately preceding sentence (but not reduced by the Other Period Deferred Amount to the extent not theretofore distributed), plus any amounts that have been transferred to the Deferred Plan pursuant to Section A.6 hereof and not theretofore distributed or deemed distributed therefrom, exceeds the aggregate amount of credits to the Trust Account pursuant to Sections 3.3 and 3.4 of your prior Employment Agreements with the Company as of each Valuation Date and not theretofore distributed or
 
deemed distributed pursuant to this Section A.7 is herein called "Account Retained Income". The amount of each payment for the year, or such shorter period as may be determined by the Company or the Trustee, of the Pay-Out Period immediately succeeding such Valuation Date, including the payment then due, shall be determined by dividing the aggregate value of the Trust Account, as valued and adjusted pursuant to the second preceding sentence, by the number of payments remaining to be paid in the Pay-Out Period, including the payment then due; provided that each payment made shall be deemed made first out of Account Retained Income (to the extent remaining after all prior distributions thereof since the last Valuation Date). The balance of the Trust Account (excluding the Other Period Deferred Amount), after all the securities held therein have been sold and all indebtedness liquidated, shall be paid to Executive in the final payment, which shall be decreased by deducting there from the amount of all taxes attributable to the sale of any securities held in the Trust Account since the end of the preceding taxable year of the Company, which taxes shall be computed as of the date of such payment.
     If this Agreement is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 4.1 or if Executive terminates this Agreement or the term of employment in breach of this Agreement, the Trust Account shall be valued as of the later of (i) the Term Date or (ii) twelve months after termination of Executive's employment with the Company, and the balance of the Trust Account, after the securities held therein have been sold and all related indebtedness liquidated, shall be paid to Executive as soon as practicable and in any event within 75 days following the later of such dates in a final lump sum payment, which shall be decreased by deducting there from the amount of all taxes attributable to the sale of any securities held in the Trust Account since the end of the preceding taxable year of the Company, which taxes shall be computed as of the date of such payment. Payments made pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed made first out of Account Retained Income.
     If Executive becomes disabled within the meaning of Section 5 of the Agreement and is not thereafter returned to full-time employment with the Company as provided in said Section 5, then deferred compensation shall be paid monthly during the Pay-Out Period commencing on the first Company payroll date in the month following the end of
 
the Disability Period in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of this Section A.7.
     If Executive shall die at any time whether during or after the term of employment, the Trust Account shall be valued as of the date of Executive's death and the balance of the Trust Account shall be paid to Executive's estate or beneficiary within 75 days of such death in accordance with the provisions of the second preceding paragraph.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section A.7, if the Rabbi Trust 25 shall terminate in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Agreement the Trust Account shall be valued as of the date of such termination and the balance of the Trust Account shall be paid to Executive within 15 days of such termination in accordance with the provisions of the third preceding paragraph.
     If a transfer to the Deferred Plan has been made pursuant to Section A.6 hereof, payments made to Executive from the Deferred Plan (a) shall be deemed made first from the amounts transferred to the Deferred Plan pursuant to Section A.6 and (b) shall be deemed made first out of Account Retained Income.
     Within 90 days after the end of each taxable year of the Company in which payments are made, directly or indirectly, to the Executive from the Trust Account or from the Deferred Plan with respect to amounts transferred to the Deferred Plan from the Trust Account pursuant to Section A.6 and at the time of the final payment from the Trust Account, the Company or the Trustee shall compute and the Company shall pay to the Trustee for credit to the Trust Account, the amount of the tax benefit assumed to be received by the Company from the payment to Executive of amounts of Account Retained Income during such taxable year or since the end of the last taxable year, as the case may be. No additional credits shall be made to the Trust Account pursuant to the preceding sentence in respect of the amounts credited to the Trust Account pursuant to the preceding sentence. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section A.7, Executive shall in no event be entitled to receive pursuant to this Annex A an aggregate amount (including any
 
amounts that have been transferred to the Deferred Plan pursuant to Section A.6) exceeding the sum of (i) all credits made to the Trust Account pursuant to Sections 3.3 and 3.4 of your prior Employment Agreements with the Company, (ii) the net cumulative amount (positive or negative) of all income, gains, losses, interest and expenses charged or credited to the Trust Account pursuant to this Annex A (excluding credits made pursuant to the second preceding sentence), after all credits and charges to the Trust Account with respect to the tax benefits or burdens thereof, and (iii) an amount equal to the tax benefit to the Company from the payment of the amount (if positive) determined under clause (ii) above; and the final payment(s) otherwise due may be adjusted or eliminated accordingly. In determining the tax benefit to the Company under clause (iii) above, the Company shall be deemed to have made the payments under clause (ii) above with respect to the same taxable years and in the same proportions as payments of Account Retained Income were actually made from the Trust Account. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the computation of all taxes and tax benefits referred to in this Section A.7 shall be determined in accordance with Section A.5 above.
     A.8 . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Annex A, Executive may, prior to the commencement of any calendar year elect by written notice to the Company to cause (i) all or any portion of the amounts otherwise to be credited to the Trust Account in such year under Section 3.3 of the Agreement not to be so credited but to be paid to Executive on the date(s) such credits otherwise would have been made thereunder and/or (ii) all or any portion of the amounts to be credited to the Trust Account under Section 3.3 of the Agreement in such year (after giving effect to clause (i) above) to be payable from the Trust Account at times different from those provided in Section A.7 above but not earlier than the dates on which such amounts were to be credited to the Trust Account.
Other Payment Methods
 
ANNEX B
          Pursuant to the terms of the Employment Agreement made as of , between TIME WARNER CABLE INC. (the "Company") and the undersigned (the "Agreement"), and in consideration of the payments made to me and other benefits to be received by me pursuant thereto, I, [Name], being of lawful age, do hereby release and forever discharge the Company and any successors, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, predecessors, merged entities and parent entities and their respective officers, directors, shareholders, employees, benefit plan administrators and trustees, agents, attorneys, insurers, representatives, affiliates, successors and assigns from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, or demands for general, special or punitive damages, attorney's fees, expenses, or other compensation or damages (collectively, "Claims"), which in any way relate to or arise out of my employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or the termination of such employment, which I may now or hereafter have under any federal, state or local law, regulation or order, including without limitation, Claims related to any stock options held by me or granted to me by the Company that are scheduled to vest subsequent to my termination of employment (except for those stock options scheduled to vest after the date of my termination under Section 8 of the Agreement) and Claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (with the exception of Claims that may arise after the date I sign this Release), Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, each as amended through and including the date of this Release; , , that the execution of this Release shall not prevent the undersigned from bringing a lawsuit against the Company to enforce its obligations under the Agreement; provided further, that the execution of this Release does not release any rights I may have against the Company or Time Warner for indemnification under the Agreement or any other agreement, plan or arrangement.
                    
                    
provided
however
          I acknowledge that I have been given at least 21 days from the day I received a copy of this Release to sign it and that I have been advised to consult an attorney. I understand that I have the right to revoke my consent to this Release for seven days following my signing. This Release shall not become effective or enforceable until the expiration of the seven-day period following the date it is signed by me.
          I ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT BY SIGNING THIS RELEASE I MAY BE GIVING UP VALUABLE LEGAL RIGHTS AND THAT I HAVE BEEN ADVISED TO CONSULT A LAWYER BEFORE SIGNING. I further state that I have read this document and the Agreement referred to herein, that I know the contents of both and that I have executed the same as my own free act.
          WITNESS my hand this day of , .
                    
                    
                    
                    

 
Exhibit 10.36
January 16, 2007
Glenn Britt President and Chief Executive Officer Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06802
Dear Glenn:
     Pursuant to Section 12.6 of your employment agreement dated August 1, 2006 (the "Employment Agreement"), in connection with the relocation of Time Warner Cable Inc.'s (the "Company") principal corporate offices to One Time Warner Center, New York, N.Y., the Company seeks a limited waiver of a breach of Section 2.4 (Place of Performance) of the Employment Agreement.
     By signing this letter where indicated below you hereby agree that the Company's relocation of its principal corporate offices and the addition of New York, New York as the place for performance of your services does not constitute a breach of Section 2.4 of the Employment Agreement and you hereby waive any breach of Section 2.4 with respect to the relocation to New York, New York.
     The Company does not seek a waiver with respect to any other provision of the Employment Agreement or any other change in the place of performance of your services.
Sincerely,
/s/ Marc Lawrence-Apfelbaum
Marc Lawrence-Apfelbaum
AGREED TO:
Glenn Britt
/s/ Glenn Britt                             

 
Exhibit 10.37
          EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT made as of June 6, 2006, and effective as of August 8, 2005 (the "Effective Date"), between (the "Company"), a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation, and ("You"). You were previously employed by Time Warner Inc. under an employment agreement dated February 13, 2002 (the "Prior Employment Agreement"). This Agreement supersedes the Prior Employment Agreement unless otherwise provided.
TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P.
John K. Martin, Jr.
          You and the Company desire to set forth the terms and conditions of your employment by the Company and agree as follows:
          1. . Your "term of employment" as this phrase is used throughout this Agreement, shall be for the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on August 8, 2008 (the "Term Date"), subject, however, to earlier termination as set forth in this Agreement.
Term of Employment
          2. . During the term of employment, you shall serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, and you shall have the authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities normally associated with such position or such authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities as may be assigned to you from time to time by the Company consistent with your senior position with the Company. During the term of employment, (i) your services shall be rendered on a substantially full-time, exclusive basis and you will apply on a full-time basis all of your skill and experience to the performance of your duties, (ii) you shall report only to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, (iii) you shall have no other employment and, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer, no outside business activities which require the devotion of substantial amounts of your time, and (iv) the place for the performance of your services shall be Stamford, Connecticut or other location of the Company's principal corporate offices within the New York metropolitan area, as the Company may determine, subject to such reasonable travel as may be required in the performance of your duties. The foregoing shall be subject to the Company's written policies, as in effect from time to time, regarding vacations, holidays, illness and the like.
Employment
 
          3. .
Compensation
               3.1 . The Company shall pay you a base salary at the rate of not less than $650,000 per annum during the term of employment ("Base Salary"). The Company may increase, but not decrease, your Base Salary during the term of employment. Base Salary shall be paid in accordance with the Company's customary payroll practices.
Base Salary
               3.2 . In addition to Base Salary, the Company typically pays its executives an annual cash bonus ("Bonus"). Although your Bonus is fully discretionary, your target annual Bonus as a percentage of Base Salary is 125%, pro rated with respect to partial years. Each year, the Company's performance and your personal performance will be considered in the context of your executive duties and any individual goals set for you, and your actual Bonus will be determined. Although as a general matter the Company expects to pay bonuses at the target level in cases of satisfactory individual performance, it does not commit to do so, and your Bonus may be negatively affected by the exercise of the Company's discretion or by overall Company performance.
Bonus
               3.3 . You will be granted a one time option to purchase 30,000 shares of Common Stock of Time Warner Inc. following commencement of your employment. Thereafter, subject to the terms of Time Warner Inc. plans governing the granting of stock options, at the Company's discretion, you will be eligible to receive annual grants of Time Warner Inc. stock options in the same range as other executives at your level, although the Company does not commit to do so. Each such stock option grant shall be at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of Time Warner Inc. Common Stock on the date of the grant and shall be reflected in a separate Stock Option Agreement in accordance with the Company's customary practices.
Stock Options
               3.4 . In addition to the above compensation, and at the Company's discretion, you will be eligible to participate in other compensation plans and programs available to executives at your level ("Additional Compensation Plans"), including, by way of example, the Time Warner Cable Long Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP"). The Company shall maintain full discretion to amend, modify or terminate such Additional Compensation Plans, and full discretion over the decision to award you compensation under such Additional Compensation Plans and the amount of such an award.
Additional Compensation Plans
 
               Subject to the Company's full discretion, your performance and the Company's performance, your 2006 target award under the LTIP will be a mix of cash and equity plans which in the Company's determination has a value of $1,300,000.
               3.5 . You shall be entitled throughout the term of employment (and after the end of the term of employment, to the extent relating to service during the term of employment) to the benefit of the indemnification provisions contained on the date hereof in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of Time Warner Cable Inc. and the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of Time Warner Inc. (whichever is the greater extent of indemnification) (not including any amendments or additions after the date hereof that limit or narrow, but including any that add to or broaden, the protection afforded to you by those provisions).
Indemnification
          4. .
Termination
               4.1 Termination for Cause. The Company may terminate the term of employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement, other than its obligations set forth below in this Section 4.1, for "cause". Termination by the Company for "cause" shall mean termination because of your (a) conviction (treating a nolo contendere plea as a conviction) of a felony (whether or not any right to appeal has been or may be exercised) other than as a result of a moving violation or a Limited Vicarious Liability, (b) willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform your material duties with the Company, including your material obligations under this Agreement (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental impairment), (c) willful misappropriation, embezzlement or reckless or willful destruction of Company property having a significant adverse financial effect on the Company or a significant adverse effect on the Company's reputation, (d) willful and material breach of any statutory or common law duty of loyalty to the Company having a significant adverse financial effect on the Company or a significant adverse effect on the Company's reputation; or (e) material and willful breach of any of the covenants provided for in Section 8 below. Such termination shall be effected by written notice thereof delivered by the Company to you and shall be effective as of the date of such notice; provided, however, that if (i) such termination is because of your willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform your material duties with the Company including any one or more of your material obligations under this Agreement or for intentional and improper conduct, and (ii) within 30 days following the date of such notice you shall cease your refusal and shall use
 
your best efforts to perform such obligations or cease such intentional and improper conduct, the termination shall not be effective. For purposes of this definition of Cause, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be considered "willful" or "intentional" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you in bad faith and a belief that such action or omission was opposed to the best interest of the Company. The term "Limited Vicarious Liability" shall mean any liability which is based on acts of the Company for which you are responsible solely as a result of your office(s) with the Company; provided that (x) you are not directly involved in such acts and either had no prior knowledge of such intended actions or, upon obtaining such knowledge, promptly acted reasonably and in good faith to attempt to prevent the acts causing such liability or (y) after consulting with the Company's counsel, you reasonably believed that no law was being violated by such acts.
          In the event of termination by the Company for cause, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have at law or in equity, the Company shall have no further obligation to you other than (i) to pay Base Salary through the effective date of termination, (ii) to pay any Bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the date of such termination, and (iii) to honor any rights you have pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements of the Company. You hereby disclaim any right to receive a pro rata portion of any Bonus with respect to the year in which such termination occurs.
               4.2 . Unless previously terminated pursuant to any other provision of this Agreement and unless a Disability Period shall be in effect, you shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to the Company, to terminate the term of employment effective 15 days after the giving of such notice, if, at the time of the giving of such notice, the Company is in material breach of its obligations under this Agreement; provided, however, that, with the exception of clause (i) below, this Agreement shall not so terminate if such notice is the first such notice of termination delivered by you pursuant to this Section 4.2 and within such 15-day period the Company shall have cured all such material breaches. A material breach by the Company shall include, but not be limited to, (i) the Company violating Section 2 with respect to your title, duties or place of employment, or (ii) the Company failing to cause any successor to all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company expressly to assume the obligations of the Company under this Agreement.
Termination by You for Material Breach by the Company and Termination by the Company Without Cause
 
               The Company shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to you, to terminate your employment under this Agreement without cause, which notice shall specify the effective date of such termination.
                    4.2.1 After the effective date of a termination pursuant to this Section 4.2 (a "termination without cause"), you shall receive Base Salary and a pro rata portion of your Average Annual Bonus (as defined below) through the effective date of termination. Your Average Annual Bonus shall be equal to the average of the regular annual bonus amounts (excluding the amount of any special or spot bonuses) in respect of the two calendar years during the most recent five calendar years for which the annual bonus received by you from the Company was the greatest; provided, however, if the Company has previously paid you no annual Bonus, then your Average Annual Bonus shall equal your target Bonus and if the Company has previously paid you one annual Bonus, then your Average Annual Bonus shall equal the average of such Bonus and your target Bonus.
                    4.2.2 After the effective date of a termination without cause, you shall remain an employee of the Company for a period ending on the date (the "Severance Term Date") which is the later of (i) the Term Date or (ii) the date which is twenty-four months after the effective date of such termination and during such period you shall be entitled to receive, whether or not you become disabled during such period but subject to Section 6, (a) Base Salary at an annual rate equal to your Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the notice of termination, and (b) an annual Bonus in respect of each calendar year or portion thereof (in which case a pro rata portion of such Bonus will be payable) during such period equal to your Average Annual Bonus. Except as provided in the second succeeding sentence, if you accept other full-time employment during such period or notify the Company in writing of your intention to terminate your status as an employee during such period, you shall cease to be an employee of the Company effective upon the commencement of such other employment or the effective date of such termination as specified by you in such notice, whichever is applicable, and you shall be entitled to receive, as severance, a lump sum payment within 30 days after such commencement or such effective date, discounted as provided in the immediately following sentence, equal to the balance of the payments you would have received pursuant to this Section 4.2.2 had you remained on the Company's payroll. That lump sum shall be discounted to present value as of the date of payment from the times at which such amounts would otherwise have become payable absent such commencement or termination
 
at an annual discount rate for the relevant periods equal to 120% of the "applicable Federal rate" (within the meaning of Section 1274(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), in effect on the date of such commencement or termination, compounded semi-annually. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you accept full-time employment with any affiliate of the Company, then the payments provided for in this Section 4.2.2 shall immediately cease and you shall not be entitled to any lump sum payment. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "affiliate" shall mean any entity which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company.
               4.3 . If at the Term Date, the term of employment shall not have been previously terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, no Disability Period is then in effect and the parties shall not have agreed to an extension or renewal of this Agreement or on the terms of a new employment agreement, then the term of employment shall continue on a month-to-month basis and you shall continue to be employed by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. You may terminate the term of employment under this Agreement on 60 days written notice delivered to the Company (which notice may be delivered by you at any time on or after the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date). The Company may terminate the term of employment on or after the Term Date at any time upon written notice to you. The Company's written notice of termination will specify the effective date of such termination. If the Company shall terminate the term of employment on or after the Term Date for any reason (other than for cause as defined in Section 4.1, in which case Section 4.1 shall apply), which the Company shall have the right to do so long as no Disability Date (as defined in Section 5) has occurred prior to the delivery by the Company of written notice of termination, then such termination shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement to be a "termination without cause" under Section 4.2 and the provisions of Sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 shall apply.
After the Term Date
               4.4 . A condition precedent to the Company's obligation to make the payments associated with a termination without cause shall be your execution and delivery of a release in the form attached hereto as Annex A. If you shall fail to execute and deliver such release, or if you revoke such release as provided therein, then in lieu of the payments provided for herein, you shall receive a severance payment determined in accordance with the Company's policies relating to notice and severance.
Release
 
               4.5 . So long as you remain on the payroll of the Company or any affiliate of the Company, payments of Base Salary and Bonus required to be made after a termination without cause shall be made at the same times as similar payments are made to other senior executives of the Company.
Payments
          5. .
Disability
          5.1 . If during the term of employment and prior to the delivery of any notice of termination without cause, you become physically or mentally disabled, whether totally or partially, so that you are prevented from performing your usual duties for a period of six consecutive months, or for shorter periods aggregating six months in any twelve-month period, the Company shall, nevertheless, continue to pay your full compensation through the last day of the sixth consecutive month of disability or the date on which the shorter periods of disability shall have equaled a total of six months in any twelve-month period (such last day or date being referred to herein as the "Disability Date"). If you have not resumed your usual duties on or prior to the Disability Date, the Company shall pay you a pro rata Bonus (based on your Average Annual Bonus) for the year in which the Disability Date occurs and thereafter shall pay you disability benefits for the period ending on the later of (i) the Term Date or (ii) the date which is twelve months after the Disability Date (in the case of either (i) or (ii), the "Disability Period"), in an annual amount equal to 75% of (a) your Base Salary at the time you become disabled and (b) the Average Annual Bonus.
Disability Payments
          5.2 . If during the Disability Period you shall fully recover from your disability, the Company shall have the right (exercisable within 60 days after notice from you of such recovery), but not the obligation, to restore you to full-time service at full compensation. If the Company elects to restore you to full-time service, then this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all respects and the Term Date shall not be extended by virtue of the occurrence of the Disability Period. If the Company elects not to restore you to full-time service, you shall be entitled to obtain other employment, subject, however, to the following: (i) you shall perform advisory services during any balance of the Disability Period; and (ii) you shall comply with the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 during the Disability Period. The advisory services referred to in clause (i) of the immediately preceding sentence shall consist of rendering advice concerning strategic matters as requested by the Company, but you shall not be required to devote more than five days (up to eight hours per day) each month to such services, which
Recovery from Disability
 
shall be performed at a time and place mutually convenient to both parties. Any income from such other employment shall not be applied to reduce the Company's obligations under this Agreement.
          5.3 . The Company shall be entitled to deduct from all payments to be made to you during the Disability Period pursuant to this Section 5 an amount equal to all disability payments received by you during the Disability Period from Worker's Compensation, Social Security and disability insurance policies maintained by the Company; provided, however, that for so long as, and to the extent that, proceeds paid to you from such disability insurance policies are not includible in your income for federal income tax purposes, the Company's deduction with respect to such payments shall be equal to the product of (i) such payments and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is one less the maximum marginal rate of federal income taxes applicable to individuals at the time of receipt of such payments. All payments made under this Section 5 after the Disability Date are intended to be disability payments, regardless of the manner in which they are computed. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5, the term of employment shall continue during the Disability Period and you shall be entitled to all of the rights and benefits provided for in this Agreement, except that Sections 4.2 and 4.3 shall not apply during the Disability Period and unless the Company has restored you to full-time service at full compensation prior to the end of the Disability Period, the term of employment shall end and you shall cease to be an employee of the Company at the end of the Disability Period and shall not be entitled to notice and severance or to receive or be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical.
Other Disability Provisions
          6. . If you die during the term of employment, this Agreement and all obligations of the Company to make any payments hereunder shall terminate except that your estate (or a designated beneficiary) shall be entitled to receive Base Salary to the last day of the month in which your death occurs and Bonus compensation (at the time bonuses are normally paid) based on the Average Annual Bonus, but prorated according to the number of whole or partial months you were employed by the Company in such calendar year.
Death
 
          7. .
Other Benefits
               7.1 . To the extent that (a) you are eligible under the general provisions thereof (including without limitation, any plan provision providing for participation to be limited to persons who were employees of the company or certain of its subsidiaries prior to a specific point in time) and (b) the Company maintains such plan or program for the benefit of its executives, during the term of employment and so long as you are an employee of the Company, you shall be eligible to participate in any savings or similar plan or program and in any group life insurance, hospitalization, medical, dental, accident, disability or similar plan or program of the Company now existing or established hereafter.
General Availability
               7.2 During the period you remain on the payroll of the Company after a termination without cause or during the Disability Period, you shall continue to be eligible to participate in the benefit plans and to receive the benefits required to be provided to you under this Agreement to the extent such benefits are maintained in effect by the Company for its executives; provided, however, you shall not be entitled to any additional awards or grants under any stock option, restricted stock or other stock based incentive plan. At the time you leave the payroll of the Company, your rights to benefits and payments under any benefit plans or any insurance or other death benefit plans or arrangements of the Company or under any stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right, bonus unit, management incentive or other plan of the Company shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plans and any agreements under which such stock options, restricted stock or other awards were granted.
Benefits After a Termination or Disability.
               However, notwithstanding the foregoing or any more restrictive provisions of any such plan or agreement, if you leave the payroll of the Company as a result of a termination pursuant to Section 4.2, then, except if you shall otherwise qualify for retirement under the terms of the applicable stock option agreement, consistent with the terms of the Prior Agreement, (i) all stock options to purchase shares of Time Warner Inc. common stock will continue to vest, and any vested Time Warner stock options will remain exercisable (but not beyond the term of such stock options), while you remain on the payroll of the Company, (ii) all Time Warner Inc. stock options granted to you on or after January 10, 2000 (which options are collectively referred to as your "Term Options") that would have vested on or before the Severance Term Date (or the comparable date of any employment agreement that amends, replaces or supercedes this Agreement) shall vest and become immediately exercisable on the date you leave the payroll of the Company, (iii) all your vested Term Options shall remain exercisable for a period of three years after
 
the date you leave the payroll of the Company (but not beyond the term of such options), and (iv) the Company shall not be permitted to determine that your employment was terminated for "unsatisfactory performance" within the meaning of any stock option agreement between you and Time Warner Inc.
               7.3 . If a Deconsolidation Transaction (as defined below) occurs, then with respect to the Time Warner stock options, Time Warner restricted stock, Time Warner restricted stock units and other Time Warner equity-based awards held by you on the date the Deconsolidation Transaction closes, the treatment of such equity awards will be equivalent to the treatment that would apply pursuant to Section 7.2 if your employment with the Company had been terminated pursuant to Section 4.2 concurrent with the closing of such a Deconsolidation Transaction and you had left the payroll of the Company on the same date, regardless of your actual employment status with the Company. Accordingly, in such event, except if you shall otherwise qualify for retirement under the terms of the applicable stock option agreement, (i) the Term Options that would have vested on or before the Severance Term Date (or the comparable date under any employment agreement that amends, replaces or supersedes this Agreement) shall vest and become immediately exercisable on the closing date of such a Deconsolidation Transaction, (ii) all vested Term Options shall remain exercisable for a period of three years after the closing date of such a Deconsolidation Transaction (but not beyond the term of such options) and (iii) the treatment of any unvested awards of Time Warner restricted stock, Time Warner restricted stock units or other Time Warner equity-based award shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plans and any agreements under which such Time Warner restricted stock, Time Warner restricted stock units or other Time Warner equity-based awards were granted, based on the assumption that your employment terminated without cause on the closing date of such a Deconsolidation Transaction. If this Section 7.3 shall become applicable as a result of a Deconsolidation Transaction, then the benefits and treatment provided for in this Section 7.3 with respect to Time Warner stock options, Time Warner restricted stock, Time Warner restricted stock units and other Time Warner equity-based awards shall replace and supersede in all respects the treatment provided in Section 7.2, and you will not receive any additional benefits pursuant to Section 7.2 with respect to Time Warner equity-based awards if your employment with the Company is terminated following or in connection with a Deconsolidation Transaction. A "Deconsolidation Transaction" shall mean (a) a transaction the result of which is the Company ceases to be a consolidated subsidiary of Time Warner, whether due to the sale, transfer or distribution of stock, a merger, the
Deconsolidation Transaction
 
contribution of stock to a joint venture or for any other reason, or (b) any sale, transfer or other disposition by Time Warner of all or substantially all of the Company's business and assets, whether by merger, sale of stock or assets, formation of a joint venture or otherwise, as the case may be, other than any such sales, transfers or dispositions following which the financial results of all or substantially all of the Company's business continues to be consolidated with the financial results of Time Warner in the periodic reports filed by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
               7.4 . In the event the term of employment and your employment with the Company is terminated pursuant to any section of this Agreement, you shall not be entitled to notice and severance under the Company's general employee policies or to be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical, the payments provided for in such sections being in lieu thereof.
Payments in Lieu of Other Benefits
          8. .
Protection of Confidential Information; Non-Compete
               8.1 . You acknowledge that your employment by the Company will, throughout the term of employment, bring you into close contact with many confidential affairs of the Company, its affiliates and third parties doing business with the Company, including information about costs, profits, markets, sales, products, key personnel, pricing policies, operational methods, technical processes and other business affairs and methods and other information not readily available to the public, and plans for future development. You further acknowledge that the services to be performed under this Agreement are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character. You further acknowledge that the business of the Company and its affiliates is international in scope, that its products and services are marketed throughout the world, that the Company and its affiliates compete in nearly all of its business activities with other entities that are or could be located in nearly any part of the world and that the nature of your services, position and expertise are such that you are capable of competing with the Company and its affiliates from nearly any location in the world. In recognition of the foregoing, you covenant and agree:
Confidentiality Covenant
                    8.1.1 You shall keep secret all confidential matters of the Company, its affiliates and third parties and shall not disclose such matters to anyone outside of the Company and its affiliates, or to anyone inside the Company and its affiliates who does not have a need to know or use such information, and shall not use such
 
information for personal benefit or the benefit of a third party, either during or after the term of employment, except with the Company's written consent, provided that (i) you shall have no such obligation to the extent such matters are or become publicly known other than as a result of your breach of your obligations hereunder and (ii) you may, after giving prior notice to the Company to the extent practicable under the circumstances, disclose such matters to the extent required by applicable laws or governmental regulations or judicial or regulatory process;
                    8.1.2 You shall deliver promptly to the Company on termination of your employment, or at any other time the Company may so request, all memoranda, notes, records, reports and other documents (and all copies thereof) relating to the Company's and its affiliates' businesses, which you obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting on behalf of, the Company and which you may then possess or have under your control; and
                    8.1.3 If the term of employment is terminated pursuant to Section 4, for a period of one year after such termination, without the prior written consent of the Company, you shall not employ, and shall not cause any entity of which you are an affiliate to employ, any person who was a full-time employee of the Company at the date of such termination or within six months prior thereto but such prohibition shall not apply to your secretary or executive assistant or to any other employee eligible to receive overtime pay.
               8.2 . During the term of employment and through the later of (i) the Term Date, (ii) the date you leave the payroll of the Company, and (iii) twelve months after the effective date of any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Section 4, you shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, render any services to, or act in any capacity for, any Competitive Entity, or acquire any interest of any type in any Competitive Entity; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be deemed to prohibit you from acquiring, (a) solely as an investment and through market purchases, securities of any Competitive Entity which are registered under Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and which are publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity and (b) securities of any Competitive Entity that are not publicly traded, so long
Non-Compete
 
as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than three percent (3%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity. For purposes of the foregoing, the following shall be deemed to be a Competitive Entity: (A) any entity which is engaged in the United States, either directly or indirectly, in the ownership, operation or management of (i) any cable television system, open video system, direct broadcast system (DBS), SMATV system, pay-per-view system, multi-point distribution system (MDS or MMDS) or other multichannel television programming system (collectively "Systems") in the United States; or (ii) any business of providing any local residential telecommunications, or any Internet access or any other transport or network services for Internet Protocol based information; and (B) any state or local authority empowered to grant, renew, modify or amend, or review the grant, renewal, modification or amendment of, or the regulation of, franchises to operate any System. , , that "Competitive Entity" shall not mean (1) any cable television system operator which, at all times during the relevant period, has less than 500,000 subscribers and does not serve any area which is also served by a cable television system owned, operated or managed by the Company or its affiliates, or (2) Time Warner Inc.
Provided
however
          9. . You acknowledge that during the term of employment, you may conceive of, discover, invent or create inventions, improvements, new contributions, literary property, material, ideas and discoveries, whether patentable or copyrightable or not (all of the foregoing being collectively referred to herein as "Work Product"), and that various business opportunities shall be presented to you by reason of your employment by the Company. You acknowledge that all of the foregoing shall be owned by and belong exclusively to the Company and that you shall have no personal interest therein, provided that they are either related in any manner to the business (commercial or experimental) of the Company, or are, in the case of Work Product, conceived or made on the Company's time or with the use of the Company's facilities or materials, or, in the case of business opportunities, are presented to you for the possible interest or participation of the Company. You shall (i) promptly disclose any such Work Product and business opportunities to the Company; (ii) assign to the Company, upon request and without additional compensation, the entire rights to such Work Product and business opportunities; (iii) sign all papers necessary to carry out the foregoing; and (iv) give testimony in support of your inventorship or creation in any appropriate case. You agree that you will not assert any rights to any Work Product or business opportunity as having been made or acquired by you prior to the date of this Agreement except for
Ownership of Work Product
 
Work Product or business opportunities, if any, disclosed to and acknowledged by the Company in writing prior to the date hereof.
          10. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be effective only if given in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service, or mailed first-class, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail, as follows (or to such other or additional address as either party shall designate by notice in writing to the other in accordance herewith):
Notices
               10.1 If to the Company:
Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902 Attention: General Counsel
               10.2 If to you, to your residence address set forth on the records of the Company, with a copy to:
Sherwood & Garlick, P.C. 65 Jessup Road, P.O. Box 390 Westport, CT 06881 Attn: John E. Chaffee, Esq.
          11. .
General
               11.1 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Connecticut applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely in Connecticut.
Governing Law
               11.2 . The section headings contained herein are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Captions
               11.3 . This Agreement, including Annex A, sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, written or oral, between the parties.
Entire Agreement
 
               11.4 . No representation, promise or inducement has been made by either party that is not embodied in this Agreement, and neither party shall be bound by or be liable for any alleged representation, promise or inducement not so set forth.
No Other Representations
               11.5 . This Agreement and your rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by you and except as specifically contemplated in this Agreement, neither you, your legal representative nor any beneficiary designated by you shall have any right, without the prior written consent of the Company, to assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate, anticipate or commute to any person or entity any payment due in the future pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, and any attempt to do so shall be void and shall not be recognized by the Company. The Company shall assign its rights together with its obligations hereunder in connection with any sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's business and assets, whether by merger, purchase of stock or assets or otherwise, as the case may be. Upon any such assignment, the Company shall cause any such successor expressly to assume such obligations, and such rights and obligations shall inure to and be binding upon any such successor.
Assignability
               11.6 . This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded, cancelled, renewed or extended and the terms or covenants hereof may be waived only by written instrument executed by both of the parties hereto, or in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance. The failure of either party at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect such party's right at a later time to enforce the same. No waiver by either party of the breach of any term or covenant contained in this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be, or construed as, a further or continuing waiver of any such breach, or a waiver of the breach of any other term or covenant contained in this Agreement.
Amendments; Waivers
               11.7 . In addition to such other rights and remedies as the Company may have at equity or in law with respect to any breach of this Agreement, if you commit a material breach of any of the provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.2, or 9, the Company shall have the right and remedy to have such provisions specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction, it being acknowledged and agreed that any such breach or threatened breach will cause irreparable injury to the Company.
Specific Remedy
 
               11.8 . Except as provided in the preceding Section 11.7, any dispute or controversy arising with respect to this Agreement and your employment hereunder (whether based on contract or tort or upon any federal, state or local statute, including but not limited to claims asserted under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, any state Fair Employment Practices Act and/or the Americans with Disability Act) shall, at the election of either you or the Company, be submitted to the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") for resolution in arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of AAA. Either party shall make such election by delivering written notice thereof to the other party at any time (but not later than 45 days after such party receives notice of the commencement of any administrative or regulatory proceeding or the filing of any lawsuit relating to any such dispute or controversy) and thereupon any such dispute or controversy shall be resolved only in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.8. Any such proceedings shall take place in Stamford, CT before a single arbitrator (rather than a panel of arbitrators), pursuant to any streamlined or expedited (rather than a comprehensive) arbitration process, before a non-judicial (rather than a judicial) arbitrator, and in accordance with an arbitration process which, in the judgment of such arbitrator, shall have the effect of reasonably limiting or reducing the cost of such arbitration. The resolution of any such dispute or controversy by the arbitrator appointed in accordance with the procedures of AAA shall be final and binding. Judgment upon the award rendered by such arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof, and the parties consent to the jurisdiction of the Connecticut courts for this purpose. If at the time any dispute or controversy arises with respect to this Agreement, AAA is not in business or is no longer providing arbitration services, then JAMS/ENDISPUTE shall be substituted for the AAA for the purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Section 11.8. If you shall be the prevailing party in such arbitration, the Company shall promptly pay, upon your demand, all legal fees, court costs and other costs and expenses incurred by you in any legal action seeking to enforce the award in any court.
Resolution of Disputes
               11.9 . Whenever this Agreement provides for any payment to your estate, such payment may be made instead to such beneficiary or beneficiaries as you may designate by written notice to the Company. You shall have the right to revoke any such designation and to redesignate a beneficiary or beneficiaries by written notice to the Company (and to any applicable insurance company) to such effect.
Beneficiaries
 
               11.10 . You represent and warrant to the Company that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon you and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of your obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which you are a party (including, without limitation, any other employment agreement). The Company represents and warrants to you that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon the Company and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which the Company is a party.
No Conflict
               11.11 . Payments made to you pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to withholding and social security taxes and other ordinary and customary payroll deductions.
Withholding Taxes
               11.12 . Neither you nor the Company shall have any right to offset any amounts owed by one party hereunder against amounts owed or claimed to be owed to such party, whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise, and you and the Company shall make all the payments provided for in this Agreement in a timely manner.
No Offset
               11.13 . If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby; provided, however, that the parties shall negotiate in good faith with respect to equitable modification of the provision or application thereof held to be invalid.
Severability
               11.14 . Sections 8 through 11 shall survive any termination of the term of employment by the Company for cause pursuant to Section 4.1. Sections 4.4, 4.5, and 7 through 11 shall survive any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Sections 4.2, 5 or 6.
Survival
               11.15 . The following terms are defined in this Agreement in the places indicated:
Definitions
affiliate  Section 4.2.2 Average Annual Bonus  Section 4.2.1
Base Salary  Section 3.1
 
Bonus  Section 3.2 cause  Section 4.1 Code  Section 4.2.2 Company  the first paragraph on page 1 Competitive Entity  Section 8.2 Disability Date  Section 5 Disability Period  Section 5 Effective Date  the first paragraph on page 1 Severance Term Date  Section 4.2.2 Term Date  Section 1 term of employment  Section 1 termination without cause  Section 4.2.1 Work Product  Section 9
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
ANNEX A
          Pursuant to the terms of the Employment Agreement made as of June 6, 2006, between TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a subsidiary of TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), located at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902 and the undersigned (the "Agreement"), and in consideration of the payments made to me and other benefits to be received by me pursuant thereto, I, John Martin, being of lawful age, do hereby release and forever discharge the Company and any successors, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, predecessors, merged entities and parent entities and their respective officers, directors, shareholders, employees, benefit plan administrators and trustees, agents, attorneys, insurers, representatives, affiliates, successors and assigns from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, or demands for general, special or punitive damages, attorney's fees, expenses, or other compensation or damages (collectively, "Claims"), which in any way relate to or arise out of my employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or the termination of such employment, which I may now or hereafter have under any federal, state or local law, regulation or order, including without limitation, Claims related to any stock options held by me or granted to me by the Company that are scheduled to vest subsequent to my termination of employment and Claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, each as amended through and including the date of this Release; , , that the execution of this Release shall not prevent the undersigned from bringing a lawsuit against the Company to enforce its obligations under the Agreement.
provided
however
          I acknowledge that I have been given at least 21 days from the day I received a copy of this Release to sign it and that I have been advised to consult an attorney. I understand that I have the right to revoke my consent to this Release for seven days following my signing. This Release shall not become effective or enforceable until the expiration of the seven-day period following the date it is signed by me.
          I ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT BY SIGNING THIS RELEASE I MAY BE GIVING UP VALUABLE LEGAL RIGHTS AND THAT I HAVE BEEN ADVISED TO CONSULT A LAWYER BEFORE SIGNING. I further state that I have read this document and the Agreement referred to herein, that I know the contents of both and that I have executed the same as my own free act.
 
          WITNESS my hand this 6 day of June, 2006.
/s/ John K. Martin, Jr.

 
Exhibit 10.38
     EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") made as of June 6, 2006, effective as of August 15, 2005 (the "Effective Date"), between (the "Company"), a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation, and ("You"). You were previously employed by Time Warner Inc. under an employment agreement dated April 6, 2001 (the "Prior Employment Agreement"). This Agreement supersedes the prior Employment Agreement unless otherwise provided.
TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P.
Robert Marcus
     You and the Company desire to set forth the terms and conditions of your employment by the Company and agree as follows:
     1. . Your "term of employment" as this phrase is used throughout this Agreement, shall be for the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on August 15, 2008 (the "Term Date"), subject, however, to earlier termination as set forth in this Agreement.
Term of Employment
     2. . During the term of employment, you shall serve as Senior Executive Vice President of the Company, and you shall have the authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities normally associated with such position, including oversight of the Company's legal, human resources, programming and mergers and acquisitions/investment departments, and such other authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities as may be assigned to you from time to time by the Company consistent with your senior position with the Company. During the term of employment, (i) your services shall be rendered on a substantially full-time, exclusive basis and you will apply on a full-time basis all of your skill and experience to the performance of your duties, (ii) you shall report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, (iii) you shall have no other employment and, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer, no outside business activities which require the devotion of substantial amounts of your time, and (iv) the place for the performance of your services shall be Stamford, Connecticut or other location of the Company's principal corporate offices within the New York metropolitan area, as the Company may determine, subject to such reasonable travel as may be required in the performance of your duties. The foregoing shall be subject to the Company's written policies, as in effect from time to time, regarding vacations, holidays, illness and the like.
Employment
     3. .
Compensation
          3.1 . The Company shall pay you a base salary at the rate of not less than $650,000 per annum during the term of employment ("Base Salary"). The Company may increase, but not decrease, your Base Salary during the term of employment. Base Salary shall be paid in accordance with the Company's customary payroll practices.
Base Salary
          3.2 . In addition to Base Salary, the Company typically pays its executives an annual cash bonus ("Bonus"). Although your Bonus is fully
Bonus
 
discretionary, your target annual Bonus as a percentage of Base Salary is 125%, pro rated with respect to partial years. Each year, the Company's performance and your personal performance will be considered in the context of your executive duties and any individual goals set for you, and your actual Bonus will be determined. Although as a general matter the Company expects to pay bonuses at the target level in cases of satisfactory individual performance, it does not commit to do so, and your Bonus may be negatively affected by the exercise of the Company's discretion or by overall Company performance. Your Bonus amount, if any, will be paid to you between January 1 and March 15 of the calendar year immediately following the performance year in respect of which such Bonus is earned.
          3.3 . Upon execution of the Agreement, you will be granted a one time option to purchase 25,000 shares of Common Stock of Time Warner Inc. Thereafter, you will be eligible to receive grants of stock options, restricted stock, RSUs or other forms of equity compensation in the same range as other executives at your level subject to the terms of any Time Warner Inc. or Time Warner Cable Inc. plans governing the granting of stock options restricted stock, RSUs or other forms of equity compensation, and at the Company's discretion. Any stock option grant shall be at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of Time Warner Inc. or Time Warner Cable Inc. Common Stock (as applicable) on the date of grant and shall be reflected in a separate stock option agreement in accordance with the Company's customary practices.
Stock Options/Restricted Stock/RSUs/Other Equity Compensation
          3.4 . In addition to the above compensation, and at the Company's discretion, you will be eligible to participate in other compensation plans and programs available to executives at your level ("Additional Compensation Plans"), including, by way of example, the Time Warner Cable Long Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP"). The Company shall maintain full discretion to amend, modify or terminate such Additional Compensation Plans, and full discretion over the decision to award you compensation under such Addition Compensation Plan and the amount of such an award.
Additional Compensation Plans
               3.4.1 Subject to the Company's full discretion, your performance and the Company's performance, and the terms of the LTIP, during the term of this agreement, your annual awards under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 will have a minimum target value of $1,300,000.
          3.5 . You shall be entitled throughout the term of employment (and after the end of the term of employment, to the extent relating to service during the term of employment) to the benefit of the indemnification provisions contained on the date hereof in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of Time Warner Cable Inc. and the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of Time Warner Inc. (whichever is the greater extent of indemnification) (not including any amendments or additions after the date hereof that limit or narrow, but including any that add to or broaden, the protection afforded to you by those provisions).
Indemnification
 
     4. .
Termination
          4.1 Termination for Cause. The Company may terminate the term of employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement, other than its obligations set forth below in this Section 4.1, for "cause". Termination by the Company for "cause" shall mean termination because of your (a) conviction (treating a nolo contendere plea as a conviction) of a felony (whether or not any right to appeal has been or may be exercised) other than as a result of a moving violation or a Limited Vicarious Liability, (b) willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform your material duties with the Company, including your material obligations under this Agreement (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental impairment), (c) willful misappropriation, embezzlement or reckless or willful destruction of Company property having a significant adverse financial effect on the Company or a significant adverse effect on the Company's reputation, (d) willful and material breach of any statutory or common law duty of loyalty to the Company having a significant adverse financial effect on the Company or a significant adverse effect on the Company's reputation; or (e) material and willful breach of any of the covenants provided for in Section 8 below. Such termination shall be effected by written notice thereof delivered by the Company to you and shall be effective as of the date of such notice; provided, however, that if (i) such termination is because of your willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform your material duties with the Company including any one or more of your material obligations under this Agreement or for intentional and improper conduct, and (ii) within 30 days following the date of such notice you shall cease your refusal and shall use your best efforts to perform such obligations or cease such intentional and improper conduct, the termination shall not be effective.
          In the event of termination by the Company for cause, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have at law or in equity, the Company shall have no further obligation to you other than (i) to pay Base Salary through the effective date of termination, (ii) to pay any Bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the date of such termination, and (iii) with respect to any rights you have pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements of the Company. You hereby disclaim any right to receive a pro rata portion of any Bonus with respect to the year in which such termination occurs.
          4.2 . Unless previously terminated pursuant to any other provision of this Agreement and unless a Disability Period shall be in effect, you shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to the Company, to terminate the term of employment effective 15 days after the giving of such notice, if, at the time of the giving of such notice, the Company is in material breach of its obligations under this Agreement; provided, however, that, with the exception of clause (i) below, this Agreement shall not so terminate if such notice is the first such notice of termination delivered by you pursuant to this Section 4.2 and within such 15-day period the Company shall have cured all such material breaches. A material breach by the Company shall include, but not be limited to, (i) the Company violating Section 2 with respect to your
Termination by You for Material Breach by the Company and Termination by the Company Without Cause
 
title, reporting lines, duties or place of employment, or (ii) the Company failing to cause any successor to all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company expressly to assume the obligations of the Company under this Agreement.
          The Company shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to you, to terminate your employment under this Agreement without cause, which notice shall specify the effective date of such termination.
               4.2.1 After the effective date of a termination pursuant to this Section 4.2 (a "termination without cause"), you shall receive Base Salary and a pro rata portion of your Average Annual Bonus (as defined below) through the effective date of termination. Your Average Annual Bonus shall be equal to the average of the regular annual bonus amounts (excluding the amount of any special or spot bonuses) in respect of the two calendar years during the most recent five calendar years for which the annual bonus received by you from the Company was the greatest; provided, however, if the Company has previously paid you no annual Bonus, then your Average Annual Bonus shall equal your target Bonus and if the Company has previously paid you one annual Bonus, then your Average Annual Bonus shall equal the average of such Bonus and your target Bonus. Your pro rata Average Annual Bonus pursuant to this Section 4.2.1 shall be paid to you at the times set forth in Section 4.5.
               4.2.2 After the effective date of a termination without cause, you shall remain an employee of the Company for a period ending on the date (the "Severance Term Date") which is the later of (i) the Term Date and (ii) the date which is twenty-four months after the effective date of such termination and during such period you shall be entitled to receive, whether or not you become disabled during such period but subject to Section 6, (a) continued payments of your Base Salary (on the Company's normal payroll payment dates as in effect immediately prior to the effective date of your termination without cause) at an annual rate equal to your Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the notice of termination, and (b) an annual Bonus in respect of each calendar year or portion thereof (in which case a pro rata portion of such Bonus will be payable) during such period equal to your Average Annual Bonus. Except as provided in the succeeding sentence, if you accept other full-time employment during such period or notify the Company in writing of your intention to terminate your status as an employee during such period, you shall cease to be an employee of the Company and shall be removed from the payroll of the Company effective upon the commencement of such other employment or the effective date of such termination as specified by you in such notice, whichever is applicable, and you shall be entitled to receive the remaining payments you would have received pursuant to this Section 4.2.2 had you remained on the Company's payroll at the times specified in Section 4.5 of the Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you accept employment with any not-for-profit entity, then you shall be entitled to remain an employee of the Company and receive the payments as provided in the first sentence of this Section 4.2.2; and if you accept full-time employment with any affiliate of the Company, then the payments provided for in this Section 4.2.2 shall immediately cease and you shall not be entitled to any further payments. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "affiliate" shall mean any entity
 
which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company.
          4.3 . If at the Term Date, the term of employment shall not have been previously terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, no Disability Period is then in effect and the parties shall not have agreed to an extension or renewal of this Agreement or on the terms of a new employment agreement, then the term of employment shall continue on a month-to-month basis and you shall continue to be employed by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. You may terminate the term of employment under this Agreement on 60 days written notice delivered to the Company (which notice may be delivered by you at any time on or after the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date). The Company may terminate the term of employment on or after the Term Date at any time upon written notice to you. The Company's written notice of termination will specify the effective date of such termination. If the Company shall terminate the term of employment on or after the Term Date for any reason (other than for cause as defined in Section 4.1, in which case Section 4.1 shall apply), which the Company shall have the right to do so long as no Disability Date (as defined in Section 5) has occurred prior to the delivery by the Company of written notice of termination, then such termination shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement to be a "termination without cause" under Section 4.2 and the provisions of Sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 shall apply.
After the Term Date
          4.4 . A condition precedent to the Company's obligation to make the payments associated with a termination without cause shall be your execution and delivery of a release in the form attached hereto as Annex A. If you shall fail to execute and deliver such release, or if you revoke such release as provided therein, then in lieu of the payments provided for herein, you shall receive a severance payment determined in accordance with the Company's policies relating to notice and severance.
Release
          4.5 . Payments of Base Salary and Bonus required to be made to you after a termination without cause shall be made at the same times as such payments otherwise would have been paid to you pursuant to Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 4.2 if you had not been terminated; provided, however, that any payment otherwise required to be made after a termination without cause that the Company reasonably determines is subject to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code shall not be paid or payment commenced until the later of (a) six months after the date of your "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) and (b) the payment date or commencement date specified in this Agreement for such payment(s). On the earliest date on which such payments can be made or commenced without violating the requirements of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, you shall be paid, in a single lump sum, an amount equal to the aggregate amount of all payments delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence.
Payments
     5. .
Disability
          5.1 . If during the term of employment and prior to the delivery of any notice of termination without cause, you become physically or
Disability Payments
 
mentally disabled, whether totally or partially, so that you are prevented from performing your usual duties for a period of six consecutive months, or for shorter periods aggregating six months in any twelve-month period, the Company shall, nevertheless, continue to pay your full compensation through the last day of the sixth consecutive month of disability or the date on which the shorter periods of disability shall have equaled a total of six months in any twelve-month period (such last day or date being referred to herein as the "Disability Date") subject to Section 4.5. If you have not resumed your usual duties on or prior to the Disability Date, the Company shall pay you a pro rata Bonus (based on your Average Annual Bonus) for the year in which the Disability Date occurs and thereafter shall pay you disability benefits for the period ending on the later of (i) the Term Date or (ii) the date which is twenty-four months after the Disability Date (in the case of either (i) or (ii), the "Disability Period"), in an annual amount equal to 75% of (a) your Base Salary at the time you become disabled and (b) the Average Annual Bonus, in each case subject to Section 4.5.
          5.2 . If during the Disability Period you shall fully recover from your disability, the Company shall have the right (exercisable within 60 days after notice from you of such recovery), but not the obligation, to restore you to full-time service at full compensation. If the Company elects to restore you to full-time service, then this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all respects and the Term Date shall not be extended by virtue of the occurrence of the Disability Period. If the Company elects not to restore you to full-time service, you shall be entitled to obtain other employment, subject, however, to the following: (i) you shall perform advisory services during any balance of the Disability Period; and (ii) you shall comply with the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 during the Disability Period. The advisory services referred to in clause (i) of the immediately preceding sentence shall consist of rendering advice concerning strategic matters as requested by the Company, but you shall not be required to devote more than five days (up to eight hours per day) each month to such services, which shall be performed at a time and place mutually convenient to both parties. Any income from such other employment shall not be applied to reduce the Company's obligations under this Agreement.
Recovery from Disability
          5.3 . The Company shall be entitled to deduct from all payments to be made to you during the Disability Period pursuant to this Section 5 an amount equal to all disability payments received by you during the Disability Period from Worker's Compensation, Social Security and disability insurance policies maintained by the Company; provided, however, that for so long as, and to the extent that, proceeds paid to you from such disability insurance policies are not includible in your income for federal income tax purposes, the Company's deduction with respect to such payments shall be equal to the product of (i) such payments and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is one less the maximum marginal rate of federal income taxes applicable to individuals at the time of receipt of such payments. All payments made under this Section 5 after the Disability Date are intended to be disability payments, regardless of the manner in which they are computed. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5, the term of employment shall continue during the Disability Period and you shall be entitled to all of the rights and benefits provided for in this Agreement, except that Sections 4.2 and 4.3 shall not apply during
Other Disability Provisions
 
the Disability Period and unless the Company has restored you to full-time service at full compensation prior to the end of the Disability Period, the term of employment shall end and you shall cease to be an employee of the Company at the end of the Disability Period and shall not be entitled to notice and severance or to receive or be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical.
     6. . If you die during the term of employment, this Agreement and all obligations of the Company to make any payments hereunder shall terminate except that your estate (or a designated beneficiary) shall be entitled to receive Base Salary to the last day of the month in which your death occurs and Bonus compensation (at the time bonuses are normally paid) based on the Average Annual Bonus, but prorated according to the number of whole or partial months you were employed by the Company in such calendar year.
Death
     7. .
Other Benefits
          7.1 . To the extent that (a) you are eligible under the general provisions thereof (including without limitation, any plan provision providing for participation to be limited to persons who were employees of the company or certain of its subsidiaries prior to a specific point in time) and (b) the Company maintains such plan or program for the benefit of its executives, during the term of employment and so long as you are an employee of the Company, you shall be eligible to participate in any savings or similar plan or program and in any group life insurance, hospitalization, medical, dental, accident, disability or similar plan or program of the Company now existing or established hereafter.
General Availability
          7.2 . During your employment with the Company, the Company shall (i) provide you with $50,000 of group life insurance and (ii) pay you annually an amount equal to two times the premium you would have to pay to obtain life insurance under the Group Universal Life ("GUL") insurance program made available by the Company in an amount equal to $2,000,000. You shall be under no obligation to use the payments made by the Company pursuant to the preceding sentence to purchase GUL insurance or to purchase any other life insurance. If the Company discontinues its GUL insurance program, the Company shall nevertheless make the payments required by this Section 7.2 as if such program were still in effect. The payments made to you hereunder shall not be considered as "salary" or "compensation" or "bonus" in determining the amount of any payment under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing or other benefit plan of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.
Life Insurance
          7.3 . During your employment with the Company, you are eligible for reimbursement of expenses for financial counseling, tax advice, estate planning and other similar expenses on the same basis as other similarly situated executives of the Company.
Financial Counseling Reimbursement
          7.4 . During the period you remain on the payroll of the Company after a termination without cause or during the Disability Period, you shall continue to be eligible to participate in the benefit
Benefits After a Termination or Disability
 
plans and to receive the benefits required to be provided to you under this Agreement to the extent such benefits are maintained in effect by the Company for its executives; provided, however, you shall not be entitled to any additional awards or grants under any stock option, restricted stock or other stock based incentive plan or the LTIP. At the time you leave the payroll of the Company, your rights to benefits and payments under any benefit plans or any insurance or other death benefit plans or arrangements of the Company or under any stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right, bonus unit, the LTIP, any management incentive or other plan of the Company shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plans and any agreements under which such stock options, restricted stock or other awards were granted.
          However, notwithstanding the foregoing or any more restrictive provisions of any such plan or agreement, if you leave the payroll of the company as a result of a termination pursuant to Section 4.2, then, except if you shall otherwise qualify for retirement under the terms of the applicable stock option, restricted stock, RSUs, or other agreement covering the granting of equity compensation, consistent with the terms of the Prior Agreement, (i) all Time Warner and Time Warner Cable stock options granted to you on or after January 10, 2000 that would have vested on or before the Severance Term Date (or the comparable date of any employment agreement that amends, replaces or supercedes this Agreement) shall vest and become immediately exercisable on the date you leave the payroll of the Company, and shall remain exercisable for a period of three years after the date you leave the payroll of the Company (but not beyond the term of such options), (ii) any unvested awards of Time Warner or Time Warner Cable restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs") or other equity-based award which would have vested on or before the Severance Term Date, shall vest immediately, (iii) any grants of long term cash compensation which would vest as of the Severance Term Date will vest immediately and be paid on the dates on which such long term cash compensation is ordinarily scheduled to be paid, and (iv) the Company shall not be permitted to determine that your employment was terminated for "unsatisfactory performance" within the meaning of any stock option, restricted stock, RSUs, the LTIP or other equity compensation or long term compensation agreement between you and Time Warner Inc. or Time Warner Cable Inc. This provision is subject to any law which prohibits the treatment of equity grants or long term cash compensation grants provided herein. For purposes of determining whether any restricted stock, RSU or other equity based award or any long term cash compensation award would have vested on or before the Severance Term Date (as contemplated in clause (ii) or (iii) above), such restricted stock, RSU, other equity based award or any long term cash compensation award shall be deemed to vest pro rata over the applicable vesting period notwithstanding any inconsistent provisions in the plan or agreement under which it was granted.
          7.5 . If a Deconsolidation Transaction (as defined below) occurs, then with respect to the stock options, restricted stock, RSUs or other equity-based awards held by you or awards under the LTIP, on the date the Deconsolidation Transaction closes, the treatment of such equity awards will be equivalent to the treatment that would apply pursuant to Section 7.4 if your employment with the Company had been terminated pursuant to Section 4.2 concurrent with the
Deconsolidation Transaction
 
closing of such a Deconsolidation Transaction and you had left the payroll of the Company on the same date, regardless of your actual employment status with the Company.
          A "Deconsolidation Transaction" shall mean (a) a transaction the result of which is the Company ceases to be a consolidated subsidiary of Time Warner, whether due to the sale, transfer or distribution of stock, a merger, the contribution of stock to a joint venture or for any other reason, or (b) any sale, transfer or other disposition by Time Warner of all or substantially all of the Company's business and assets, whether by merger, sale of stock or assets, formation of a joint venture or otherwise, as the case may be, other than any such sales, transfers or dispositions following which the financial results of all or substantially all of the Company's business continues to be consolidated with the financial results of Time Warner in the periodic reports filed by Time Warner with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
          7.6 . In the event the term of employment and your employment with the Company is terminated pursuant to any section of this Agreement, you shall not be entitled to notice and severance under the Company's general employee policies or to be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical, the payments provided for in such sections being in lieu thereof.
Payments in Lieu of Other Benefits
     8. .
Protection of Confidential Information; Non-Compete
          8.1 . You acknowledge that your employment by the Company will, throughout the term of employment, bring you into close contact with many confidential affairs of the Company, its affiliates and third parties doing business with the Company, including information about costs, profits, markets, sales, products, key personnel, pricing policies, operational methods, technical processes and other business affairs and methods and other information not readily available to the public, and plans for future development. You further acknowledge that the services to be performed under this Agreement are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character. You further acknowledge that the business of the Company and its affiliates is international in scope, that its products and services are marketed throughout the world, that the Company and its affiliates compete in nearly all of its business activities with other entities that are or could be located in nearly any part of the world and that the nature of your services, position and expertise are such that you are capable of competing with the Company and its affiliates from nearly any location in the world. In recognition of the foregoing, you covenant and agree:
Confidentiality Covenant
               8.1.1 You shall keep secret all confidential matters of the Company, its affiliates and third parties and shall not disclose such matters to anyone outside of the Company and its affiliates, or to anyone inside the Company and its affiliates who does not have a need to know or use such information, and shall not use such information for personal benefit or the benefit of a third party, either during or after the term of employment, except with the Company's written consent, provided that (i) you shall have no such obligation to the extent such matters are or become publicly known other than as a result of your breach of your obligations hereunder and (ii) you
 
may, after giving prior notice to the Company to the extent practicable under the circumstances, disclose such matters to the extent required by applicable laws or governmental regulations or judicial or regulatory process;
               8.1.2 You shall deliver promptly to the Company on termination of your employment, or at any other time the Company may so request, all memoranda, notes, records, reports and other documents (and all copies thereof) relating to the Company's and its affiliates' businesses, which you obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting on behalf of, the Company and which you may then possess or have under your control; and
               8.1.3 If the term of employment is terminated pursuant to Section 4, for a period of one year after such termination, without the prior written consent of the Company, you shall not solicit for employment, and shall not cause any entity of which you are an affiliate to solicit for employment, any person who was a full-time employee of the Company at the date of such termination or within six months prior thereto but such prohibition shall not apply to your secretary or executive assistant or to any other employee eligible to receive overtime pay.
          8.2 . During the term of employment and through the later of (i) the Term Date, (ii) the date you leave the payroll of the Company, and (iii) twelve months after the effective date of any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Section 4, you shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, render any services to, or act in any capacity for, any Competitive Entity, or acquire any interest of any type in any Competitive Entity; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be deemed to prohibit you from acquiring, (a) solely as an investment and through market purchases, securities of any Competitive Entity which are registered under Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and which are publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity and (b) securities of any Competitive Entity that are not publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than three percent (3%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity. For purposes of the foregoing, the following shall be deemed to be a Competitive Entity: (A) any entity which is engaged in the United States, either directly or indirectly, in the ownership, operation or management of (i) any cable television system, open video system, direct broadcast system (DBS), SMATV system, pay-per-view system, multi-point distribution system (MDS or MMDS) or other multichannel television programming system (collectively "Systems") in the United States; or (ii) any business of providing any local residential telecommunications, or any Internet access or any other transport or network services for Internet Protocol based information; and (B) any state or local authority empowered to grant, renew, modify or amend, or review the grant, renewal, modification or amendment of, or the regulation of, franchises to operate any System. , , that "Competitive Entity" shall not mean (1) any cable television system operator which, at all times during the relevant period, has less than 500,000 subscribers
Non-Compete
Provided
however
 
and does not serve any area which is also served by a cable television system owned, operated or managed by the Company or its affiliates, or (2) Time Warner Inc.
          9. . You acknowledge that during the term of employment, you may conceive of, discover, invent or create inventions, improvements, new contributions, literary property, material, ideas and discoveries, whether patentable or copyrightable or not (all of the foregoing being collectively referred to herein as "Work Product"), and that various business opportunities shall be presented to you by reason of your employment by the Company. You acknowledge that all of the foregoing shall be owned by and belong exclusively to the Company and that you shall have no personal interest therein, provided that they are either related in any manner to the business (commercial or experimental) of the Company, or are, in the case of Work Product, conceived or made on the Company's time or with the use of the Company's facilities or materials, or, in the case of business opportunities, are presented to you for the possible interest or participation of the Company. You shall (i) promptly disclose any such Work Product and business opportunities to the Company; (ii) assign to the Company, upon request and without additional compensation, the entire rights to such Work Product and business opportunities; (iii) sign all papers necessary to carry out the foregoing; and (iv) give testimony in support of your inventorship or creation in any appropriate case. You agree that you will not assert any rights to any Work Product or business opportunity as having been made or acquired by you prior to the date of this Agreement except for Work Product or business opportunities, if any, disclosed to and acknowledged by the Company in writing prior to the date hereof.
Ownership of Work Product
          10. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be effective only if given in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service, or mailed first-class, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail, as follows (or to such other or additional address as either party shall designate by notice in writing to the other in accordance herewith):
Notices
               10.1 If to the Company:
Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902 Attention: General Counsel
               10.2 If to you, to your residence address set forth on the records of the Company.
          11. .
General
               11.1 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Connecticut applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely in Connecticut.
Governing Law
 
               11.2 . The section headings contained herein are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Captions
               11.3 . This Agreement, including Annex A, sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, written or oral, between the parties.
Entire Agreement
               11.4 . No representation, promise or inducement has been made by either party that is not embodied in this Agreement, and neither party shall be bound by or be liable for any alleged representation, promise or inducement not so set forth.
No Other Representations
               11.5 . This Agreement and your rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by you and except as specifically contemplated in this Agreement, neither you, your legal representative nor any beneficiary designated by you shall have any right, without the prior written consent of the Company, to assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate, anticipate or commute to any person or entity any payment due in the future pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, and any attempt to do so shall be void and shall not be recognized by the Company. The Company shall assign its rights together with its obligations hereunder in connection with any sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's business and assets, whether by merger, purchase of stock or assets or otherwise, as the case may be. Upon any such assignment, the Company shall cause any such successor expressly to assume such obligations, and such rights and obligations shall inure to and be binding upon any such successor.
Assignability
               11.6 . This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded, cancelled, renewed or extended and the terms or covenants hereof may be waived only by written instrument executed by both of the parties hereto, or in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance. The failure of either party at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect such party's right at a later time to enforce the same. No waiver by either party of the breach of any term or covenant contained in this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be, or construed as, a further or continuing waiver of any such breach, or a waiver of the breach of any other term or covenant contained in this Agreement.
Amendments; Waivers
               11.7 . In addition to such other rights and remedies as the Company may have at equity or in law with respect to any breach of this Agreement, if you commit a material breach of any of the provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.2, or 9, the Company shall have the right and remedy to have such provisions specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction, it being acknowledged and agreed that any such breach or threatened breach will cause irreparable injury to the Company.
Specific Remedy
 
               11.8 . Except as provided in the preceding Section 11.7, any dispute or controversy arising with respect to this Agreement and your employment hereunder (whether based on contract or tort or upon any federal, state or local statute, including but not limited to claims asserted under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, any state Fair Employment Practices Act and/or the Americans with Disability Act) shall, at the election of either you or the Company, be submitted to the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") for resolution in arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of AAA. Either party shall make such election by delivering written notice thereof to the other party at any time (but not later than 45 days after such party receives notice of the commencement of any administrative or regulatory proceeding or the filing of any lawsuit relating to any such dispute or controversy) and thereupon any such dispute or controversy shall be resolved only in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.8. Any such proceedings shall take place in Stamford, CT before a single arbitrator (rather than a panel of arbitrators), pursuant to any streamlined or expedited (rather than a comprehensive) arbitration process, before a non-judicial (rather than a judicial) arbitrator, and in accordance with an arbitration process which, in the judgment of such arbitrator, shall have the effect of reasonably limiting or reducing the cost of such arbitration. The resolution of any such dispute or controversy by the arbitrator appointed in accordance with the procedures of AAA shall be final and binding. Judgment upon the award rendered by such arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof, and the parties consent to the jurisdiction of the Connecticut courts for this purpose. If at the time any dispute or controversy arises with respect to this Agreement, AAA is not in business or is no longer providing arbitration services, then JAMS/ENDISPUTE shall be substituted for the AAA for the purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Section 11.8. If you shall be the prevailing party in such arbitration, the Company shall promptly pay, upon your demand, all legal fees, court costs and other costs and expenses incurred by you in any legal action seeking to enforce the award in any court.
Resolution of Disputes
               11.9 . Whenever this Agreement provides for any payment to your estate, such payment may be made instead to such beneficiary or beneficiaries as you may designate by written notice to the Company. You shall have the right to revoke any such designation and to redesignate a beneficiary or beneficiaries by written notice to the Company (and to any applicable insurance company) to such effect.
Beneficiaries
               11.10 . You represent and warrant to the Company that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon you and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of your obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which you are a party (including, without limitation, any other employment agreement). The Company represents and warrants to you that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon the Company and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which the Company is a party.
No Conflict
 
               11.11 . Payments made to you pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to withholding and social security taxes and other ordinary and customary payroll deductions.
Withholding Taxes
               11.12 . Neither you nor the Company shall have any right to offset any amounts owed by one party hereunder against amounts owed or claimed to be owed to such party, whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise, and you and the Company shall make all the payments provided for in this Agreement in a timely manner.
No Offset
               11.13 . If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby; provided, however, that the parties shall negotiate in good faith with respect to equitable modification of the provision or application thereof held to be invalid. To the extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, each party hereby waives any provision of law which renders any provision of this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect.
Severability
               11.14 . Sections 8 through 11 shall survive any termination of the term of employment by the Company for cause pursuant to Section 4.1. Sections 3.5, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 7 through 11 shall survive any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Sections 4.2, 5 or 6.
Survival
               11.15 . The following terms are defined in this Agreement in the places indicated:
Definitions
affiliate  Section 4.2.2 Average Annual Bonus  Section 4.2.1 Base Salary  Section 3.1 Bonus  Section 3.2 cause  Section 4.1 Code  Section 4.2.2 Company  the first paragraph on page 1 Competitive Entity  Section 8.2 Disability Date  Section 5 Disability Period  Section 5 Effective Date  the first paragraph on page 1 Severance Term Date  Section 4.2.2 Term Date  Section 1 term of employment  Section 1 termination without cause  Section 4.2.1 Work Product  Section 9
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
ANNEX A
     Pursuant to the terms of the Employment Agreement made as of ___, between TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a subsidiary of TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), located at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902 and the undersigned (the "Agreement"), and in consideration of the payments made to me and other benefits to be received by me pursuant thereto, I, ___, being of lawful age, do hereby release and forever discharge the Company and any successors, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, predecessors, merged entities and parent entities and their respective officers, directors, shareholders, employees, benefit plan administrators and trustees, agents, attorneys, insurers, representatives, affiliates, successors and assigns from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, or demands for general, special or punitive damages, attorney's fees, expenses, or other compensation or damages (collectively, "Claims"), which in any way relate to or arise out of my employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or the termination of such employment, which I may now or hereafter have under any federal, state or local law, regulation or order, including without limitation, Claims related to any stock options held by me or granted to me by the Company that are scheduled to vest subsequent to my termination of employment and Claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, each as amended through and including the date of this Release; , , that the execution of this Release shall not prevent the undersigned from bringing a lawsuit against the Company to enforce its obligations under the Agreement.
provided
however
     I acknowledge that I have been given at least 21 days from the day I received a copy of this Release to sign it and that I have been advised to consult an attorney. I understand that I have the right to revoke my consent to this Release for seven days following my signing. This Release shall not become effective or enforceable until the expiration of the seven-day period following the date it is signed by me.
     I ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT BY SIGNING THIS RELEASE I MAY BE GIVING UP VALUABLE LEGAL RIGHTS AND THAT I HAVE BEEN ADVISED TO CONSULT A LAWYER BEFORE SIGNING. I further state that I have read this document and the Agreement referred to herein, that I know the contents of both and that I have executed the same as my own free act.
 
     WITNESS my hand this ___day of ___, ___.
                    
                    

 
Exhibit 10.39
     EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT made as of August 31, 2005, effective as of August 1, 2005 (the "Effective Date"), between (the "Company"), a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation, and ("You").
TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P.
LANDEL HOBBS
     You and the Company desire to set forth the terms and conditions of your employment by the Company and agree as follows:
     1. . Your "term of employment" as this phrase is used throughout this Agreement, shall be for the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on July 31, 2008 (the "Term Date"), subject, however, to earlier termination as set forth in this Agreement.
Term of Employment
     2. . During the term of employment, you shall serve as Chief Operating Officer of the Company, or in such other position as the Company may determine and you shall have the authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities normally associated with such position or such authority, functions, duties, powers and responsibilities as may be assigned to you from time to time by the Company consistent with your senior position with the Company. During the term of employment, (i) your services shall be rendered on a substantially full-time, exclusive basis and you will apply on a full-time basis all of your skill and experience to the performance of your duties, (ii) you shall report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, (iii) you shall have no other employment and, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer, no outside business activities which require the devotion of substantial amounts of your time, and (iv) the place for the performance of your services shall be the principal executive offices of the Company in Stamford, Connecticut, subject to such reasonable travel as may be required in the performance of your duties. The foregoing shall be subject to the Company's written policies, as in effect from time to time, regarding vacations, holidays, illness and the like.
Employment
     3. .
Compensation
          3.1 . The Company shall pay you a base salary at the rate of not less than $700,000 per annum during the term of employment ("Base Salary"). The Company may increase, but not decrease, your Base Salary during the term of employment. Base Salary shall be paid in accordance with the Company's customary payroll practices.
Base Salary
 
          3.2 . In addition to Base Salary, the Company typically pays its executives an annual cash bonus ("Bonus"). Although your Bonus is fully discretionary, your target annual Bonus as a percentage of Base Salary is 175%, pro rated with respect to partial years. Each year, the Company's performance and your personal performance will be considered in the context of your executive duties and any individual goals set for you, and your actual Bonus will be determined. Although as a general matter the Company expects to pay bonuses at the target level in cases of satisfactory individual performance, it does not commit to do so, and your Bonus may be negatively affected by the exercise of the Company's discretion or by overall Company performance.
Bonus
          3.3 . Subject to the terms of Company plans governing the granting of stock options, at the Company's discretion, you will be eligible to receive annual grants of stock options, although the Company does not commit to do so. Each such stock option grant shall be at an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant and shall be reflected in a separate Stock Option Agreement in accordance with the Company's customary practices.
Stock Options
          3.4 . In addition to the above compensation, and at the Company's discretion, you will be eligible to participate in other compensation plans and programs available to executives at your level, including, by way of example, the Time Warner Cable Long Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP").
Additional Compensation Plans
          3.5 . You shall be entitled throughout the term of employment (and after the end of the term of employment, to the extent relating to service during the term of employment) to the benefit of the indemnification provisions contained on the date hereof in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of Time Warner Cable Inc. and the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of Time Warner Inc. (whichever is the greater extent of indemnification) (not including any amendments or additions after the date hereof that limit or narrow, but including any that add to or broaden, the protection afforded to you by those provisions).
Indemnification
     4. .
Termination
          4.1 Termination for Cause. The Company may terminate the term of employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement, other than its obligations set forth below in this Sections 4.1, for "cause". Termination by the Company
 
for "cause" shall mean termination because of your (a) conviction (treating a nolo contendere plea as a conviction) of a felony (whether or not any right to appeal has been or may be exercised) other than as a result of a moving violation or a Limited Vicarious Liability, (b) willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform your material duties with the Company, including your material obligations under this Agreement (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental impairment), (c) willful misappropriation, embezzlement or reckless or willful destruction of Company property having a significant adverse financial effect on the Company or a significant adverse effect on the Company's reputation, (d) willful and material breach of any statutory or common law duty of loyalty to the Company having a significant adverse financial effect on the Company or a significant adverse effect on the Company's reputation; or (e) material and willful breach of any of the covenants provided for in Section 8 below. Such termination shall be effected by written notice thereof delivered by the Company to you and shall be effective as of the date of such notice; provided, however, that if (i) such termination is because of your willful failure or refusal without proper cause to perform your material duties with the Company including any one or more of your material obligations under this Agreement or for intentional and improper conduct, and (ii) within 30 days following the date of such notice you shall cease your refusal and shall use your best efforts to perform such obligations or cease such intentional and improper conduct, the termination shall not be effective. For purposes of this definition of Cause, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be considered "willful" or "intentional" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that such action or omission was opposed to the best interest of the Company. The term "Limited Vicarious Liability" shall mean any liability which is based on acts of the Company for which you are responsible solely as a result of your office(s) with the Company; provided that (x) you are not directly involved in such acts and either had no prior knowledge of such intended actions or, upon obtaining such knowledge, promptly acted reasonably and in good faith to attempt to prevent the acts causing such liability or (y) after consulting with the Company's counsel, you reasonably believed that no law was being violated by such acts.
In the event of termination by the Company for cause, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have at law or in equity, the Company shall have no further obligation to you other than (i) to pay Base Salary through the effective date of termination, (ii) to pay any Bonus for any year prior to the year in which such termination occurs that has been determined but not yet paid as of the date of such termination, and (iii)
 
with respect to any rights you have pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements of the Company. You hereby disclaim any right to receive a pro rata portion of any Bonus with respect to the year in which such termination occurs.
          4.2 . Unless previously terminated pursuant to any other provision of this Agreement and unless a Disability Period shall be in effect, you shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to the Company, to terminate the term of employment effective 15 days after the giving of such notice, if, at the time of the giving of such notice, the Company is in material breach of its obligations under this Agreement; provided, however, that, with the exception of clause (i) below, this Agreement shall not so terminate if such notice is the first such notice of termination delivered by you pursuant to this Section 4.2 and within such 15-day period the Company shall have cured all such material breaches. A material breach by the Company shall include, but not be limited to, (i) the Company violating Section 2 with respect to your title, duties or place of employment, or (ii) the Company failing to cause any successor to all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Company expressly to assume the obligations of the Company under this Agreement.
Termination by You for Material Breach by the Company and Termination by the Company Without Cause
          The Company shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to you, to terminate your employment under this Agreement without cause, which notice shall specify the effective date of such termination.
               4.2.1 After the effective date of a termination pursuant to this Section 4.2 (a "termination without cause"), you shall receive Base Salary and a pro rata portion of your Average Annual Bonus (as defined below) through the effective date of termination. Your Average Annual Bonus shall be equal to the average of the regular annual bonus amounts (excluding the amount of any special or spot bonuses) in respect of the two calendar years during the most recent five calendar years for which the annual bonus received by you from the Company was the greatest; provided, however, if the Company has previously paid you no annual Bonus, then your Average Annual Bonus shall equal your target Bonus and if the Company has previously paid you one annual Bonus, then your Average Annual Bonus shall equal the average of such Bonus and your target Bonus.
 
               4.2.2 After the effective date of a termination without cause, you shall remain an employee of the Company for a period ending on the date (the "Severance Term Date") which is the later of (i) the Term Date and (ii) the date which is twenty-four (24) months after the effective date of such termination and during such period you shall be entitled to receive, whether or not you become disabled during such period but subject to Section 6, (a) Base Salary at an annual rate equal to your Base Salary in effect immediately prior to the notice of termination, and (b) an annual Bonus in respect of each calendar year or portion thereof (in which case a pro rata portion of such Bonus will be payable) during such period equal to your Average Annual Bonus. Except as provided in the second succeeding sentence, if you accept other full-time employment during such period or notify the Company in writing of your intention to terminate your status as an employee during such period, you shall cease to be an employee of the Company effective upon the commencement of such other employment or the effective date of such termination as specified by you in such notice, whichever is applicable, and you shall be entitled to receive, as severance, a lump sum payment within 30 days after such commencement or such effective date, discounted as provided in the immediately following sentence, equal to the balance of the payments you would have received pursuant to this Section 4.2.2 had you remained on the Company's payroll. That lump sum shall be discounted to present value as of the date of payment from the times at which such amounts would otherwise have become payable absent such commencement or termination at an annual discount rate for the relevant periods equal to 120% of the "applicable Federal rate" (within the meaning of Section 1274(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), in effect on the date of such commencement or termination, compounded semi-annually. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you accept full-time employment with any affiliate of the Company, then the payments provided for in this Section 4.2.2 shall immediately cease and you shall not be entitled to any lump sum payment. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "affiliate" shall mean any entity which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company.
          4.3 . If at the Term Date, the term of employment shall not have been previously terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, no Disability Period is then in effect and the parties shall not have agreed to an extension or renewal of this Agreement or on the terms of a new employment agreement, then the term of employment shall continue on a month-to-month basis and you shall continue to be employed by the Company pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. You
After the Term Date
 
may terminate the term of employment under this Agreement on 60 days written notice delivered to the Company (which notice may be delivered by you at any time on or after the date which is 60 days prior to the Term Date). The Company may terminate the term of employment on or after the Term Date at any time upon written notice to you. The Company's written notice of termination will specify the effective date of such termination. If the Company shall terminate the term of employment on or after the Term Date for any reason (other than for cause as defined in Section 4.1, in which case Section 4.1 shall apply), which the Company shall have the right to do so long as no Disability Date (as defined in Section 5) has occurred prior to the delivery by the Company of written notice of termination, then such termination shall be deemed for all purposes of this Agreement to be a "termination without cause" under Section 4.2 and the provisions of Sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 shall apply.
          4.4 . A condition precedent to the Company's obligation to make the payments associated with a termination without cause shall be your execution and delivery of a release in the form attached hereto as Annex A. If you shall fail to execute and deliver such release, or if you revoke such release as provided therein, then in lieu of the payments provided for herein, you shall receive a severance payment determined in accordance with the Company's policies relating to notice and severance.
Release
          4.5 . In the event of a termination without cause under this Agreement, you shall not be required to seek other employment in order to mitigate your damages hereunder unless Section 280G of the Code would apply to any payments to you by the Company and your failure to mitigate would result in the Company losing tax deductions to which it would otherwise have been entitled. In such an event, you will engage in whatsoever mitigation is necessary to preserve the Company's tax deductions. With respect to the preceding sentences, any payments or rights to which you are entitled by reason of the termination of employment without cause shall be considered as damages hereunder. Any obligation to mitigate your damages pursuant to this Section 4.6 shall not be a defense or offset to the Company's obligation to pay you in full the amounts provided in this Agreement upon the occurrence of a termination without cause, at the time provided herein, or the timely and full performance of any of the Company's other obligations under this Agreement.
Mitigation
          4.6 . So long as you remain on the payroll of the Company or any affiliate of the Company, payments of Base Salary and Bonus required to
Payments
 
be made after a termination without cause shall be made at the same times as similar payments are made to other senior executives of the Company.
     5. .
Disability
          5.1 . If during the term of employment and prior to the delivery of any notice of termination without cause, you become physically or mentally disabled, whether totally or partially, so that you are prevented from performing your usual duties for a period of six consecutive months, or for shorter periods aggregating six months in any twelve-month period, the Company shall, nevertheless, continue to pay your full compensation through the last day of the sixth consecutive month of disability or the date on which the shorter periods of disability shall have equaled a total of six months in any twelve-month period (such last day or date being referred to herein as the "Disability Date"). If you have not resumed your usual duties on or prior to the Disability Date, the Company shall pay you a pro rata Bonus (based on your Average Annual Bonus) for the year in which the Disability Date occurs and thereafter shall pay you disability benefits for the period ending on the later of (i) the Term Date or (ii) the date which is twelve months after the Disability Date (in the case of either (i) or (ii), the "Disability Period"), in an annual amount equal to 75% of (a) your Base Salary at the time you become disabled and (b) the Average Annual Bonus.
Disability Payments
          5.2 . If during the Disability Period you shall fully recover from your disability, the Company shall have the right (exercisable within 60 days after notice from you of such recovery), but not the obligation, to restore you to full-time service at full compensation. If the Company elects to restore you to full-time service, then this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in all respects and the Term Date shall not be extended by virtue of the occurrence of the Disability Period. If the Company elects not to restore you to full-time service, you shall be entitled to obtain other employment, subject, however, to the following: (i) you shall perform advisory services during any balance of the Disability Period; and (ii) you shall comply with the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 during the Disability Period. The advisory services referred to in clause (i) of the immediately preceding sentence shall consist of rendering advice concerning strategic matters as requested by the Company, but you shall not be required to devote more than five days (up to eight hours per day) each month to such services, which shall be performed at a time and place mutually convenient to both parties. Any income
Recovery from Disability
 
from such other employment shall not be applied to reduce the Company's obligations under this Agreement.
          5.3 . The Company shall be entitled to deduct from all payments to be made to you during the Disability Period pursuant to this Section 5 an amount equal to all disability payments received by you during the Disability Period from Worker's Compensation, Social Security and disability insurance policies maintained by the Company; provided, however, that for so long as, and to the extent that, proceeds paid to you from such disability insurance policies are not includible in your income for federal income tax purposes, the Company's deduction with respect to such payments shall be equal to the product of (i) such payments and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is one less the maximum marginal rate of federal income taxes applicable to individuals at the time of receipt of such payments. All payments made under this Section 5 after the Disability Date are intended to be disability payments, regardless of the manner in which they are computed. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5, the term of employment shall continue during the Disability Period and you shall be entitled to all of the rights and benefits provided for in this Agreement, except that Sections 4.2 and 4.3 shall not apply during the Disability Period and unless the Company has restored you to full-time service at full compensation prior to the end of the Disability Period, the term of employment shall end and you shall cease to be an employee of the Company at the end of the Disability Period and shall not be entitled to notice and severance or to receive or be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical.
Other Disability Provisions
     6. . If you die during the term of employment, this Agreement and all obligations of the Company to make any payments hereunder shall terminate except that your estate (or a designated beneficiary) shall be entitled to receive Base Salary to the last day of the month in which your death occurs and Bonus compensation (at the time bonuses are normally paid) based on the Average Annual Bonus, but prorated according to the number of whole or partial months you were employed by the Company in such calendar year.
Death
     7. .
Other Benefits
          7.1 . To the extent that (a) you are eligible under the general provisions thereof (including without limitation, any plan provision
General Availability
 
providing for participation to be limited to persons who were employees of the company or certain of its subsidiaries prior to a specific point in time) and (b) the Company maintains such plan or program for the benefit of its executives, during the term of employment and so long as you are an employee of the Company, you shall be eligible to participate in any savings or similar plan or program and in any group life insurance, hospitalization, medical, dental, accident, disability or similar plan or program of the Company now existing or established hereafter.
          7.2 . During the period you remain on the payroll of the Company after a termination without cause or during the Disability Period, you shall continue to be eligible to participate in the benefit plans and to receive the benefits required to be provided to you under this Agreement to the extent such benefits are maintained in effect by the Company for its executives; provided, however, you shall not be entitled to any additional awards or grants under any stock option, restricted stock or other stock based incentive plan. At the time you leave the payroll of the Company, your rights to benefits and payments under any benefit plans or any insurance or other death benefit plans or arrangements of the Company or under any stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right, bonus unit, management incentive or other plan of the Company shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plans and any agreements under which such stock options, restricted stock or other awards were granted.
Benefits After a Termination or Disability
          7.3 . In the event the term of employment and your employment with the Company is terminated pursuant to any section of this Agreement, you shall not be entitled to notice and severance under the Company's general employee policies or to be paid for any accrued vacation time or unused sabbatical, the payments provided for in such sections being in lieu thereof.
Payments in Lieu of Other Benefits
     8. .
Protection of Confidential Information; Non-Compete
          8.1 . You acknowledge that your employment by the Company will, throughout the term of employment, bring you into close contact with many confidential affairs of the Company, its affiliates and third parties doing business with the Company, including information about costs, profits, markets, sales, products, key personnel, pricing policies, operational methods, technical processes and other business affairs and methods and other information not readily available to the
Confidentiality Covenant
 
public, and plans for future development. You further acknowledge that the services to be performed under this Agreement are of a special, unique, unusual, extraordinary and intellectual character. You further acknowledge that the business of the Company and its affiliates is international in scope, that its products and services are marketed throughout the world, that the Company and its affiliates compete in nearly all of its business activities with other entities that are or could be located in nearly any part of the world and that the nature of your services, position and expertise are such that you are capable of competing with the Company and its affiliates from nearly any location in the world. In recognition of the foregoing, you covenant and agree:
               8.1.1 You shall keep secret all confidential matters of the Company, its affiliates and third parties and shall not disclose such matters to anyone outside of the Company and its affiliates, or to anyone inside the Company and its affiliates who does not have a need to know or use such information, and shall not use such information for personal benefit or the benefit of a third party, either during or after the term of employment, except with the Company's written consent, provided that (i) you shall have no such obligation to the extent such matters are or become publicly known other than as a result of your breach of your obligations hereunder and (ii) you may, after giving prior notice to the Company to the extent practicable under the circumstances, disclose such matters to the extent required by applicable laws or governmental regulations or judicial or regulatory process;
               8.1.2 You shall deliver promptly to the Company on termination of your employment, or at any other time the Company may so request, all memoranda, notes, records, reports and other documents (and all copies thereof) relating to the Company's and its affiliates' businesses, which you obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting on behalf of, the Company and which you may then possess or have under your control; and
               8.1.3 If the term of employment is terminated pursuant to Section 4, for a period of one year after such termination, without the prior written consent of the Company, you shall not employ, and shall not cause any entity of which you are an affiliate to employ, any person who was a full-time employee of the Company at the date of such termination or within six months prior thereto but such prohibition shall not apply to your secretary or executive assistant or to any other employee eligible to receive overtime pay.
 
          8.2 . During the term of employment and through the later of (i) the Term Date, (ii) the date you leave the payroll of the Company, and (iii) twelve months after the effective date of any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Section 4, you shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, render any services to, or act in any capacity for, any Competitive Entity, or acquire any interest of any type in any Competitive Entity; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be deemed to prohibit you from acquiring, (a) solely as an investment and through market purchases, securities of any Competitive Entity which are registered under Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and which are publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than one percent (1%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity and (b) securities of any Competitive Entity that are not publicly traded, so long as you are not part of any control group of such Competitive Entity and such securities, including converted securities, do not constitute more than three percent (3%) of the outstanding voting power of that entity. For purposes of the foregoing, the following shall be deemed to be a Competitive Entity: (A) any entity which is engaged in the United States, either directly or indirectly, in the ownership, operation or management of (i) any cable television system, open video system, direct broadcast system (DBS), SMATV system, pay-per-view system, multi-point distribution system (MDS or MMDS) or other multichannel television programming system (collectively "Systems") in the United States; or (ii) any business of providing any local residential or commercial telecommunications, or any Internet access or any other transport or network services for Internet Protocol based information; and (B) any federal, state or local authority empowered to grant, renew, modify or amend, or review the grant, renewal, modification or amendment of, or the regulation of, franchises to operate any System. , , that "Competitive Entity" shall not mean any cable television system operator which, at all times during the relevant period, has less than 500,000 subscribers and does not serve any area which is also served by a cable television system owned, operated or managed by the Company or its affiliates.
Non-Compete
Provided
however
     9. . You acknowledge that during the term of employment, you may conceive of, discover, invent or create inventions, improvements, new contributions, literary property, material, ideas and discoveries, whether patentable or copyrightable or not (all of the foregoing being collectively referred to herein as "Work
Ownership of Work Product
 
Product"), and that various business opportunities shall be presented to you by reason of your employment by the Company. You acknowledge that all of the foregoing shall be owned by and belong exclusively to the Company and that you shall have no personal interest therein, provided that they are either related in any manner to the business (commercial or experimental) of the Company, or are, in the case of Work Product, conceived or made on the Company's time or with the use of the Company's facilities or materials, or, in the case of business opportunities, are presented to you for the possible interest or participation of the Company. You shall (i) promptly disclose any such Work Product and business opportunities to the Company; (ii) assign to the Company, upon request and without additional compensation, the entire rights to such Work Product and business opportunities; (iii) sign all papers necessary to carry out the foregoing; and (iv) give testimony in support of your inventorship or creation in any appropriate case. You agree that you will not assert any rights to any Work Product or business opportunity as having been made or acquired by you prior to the date of this Agreement except for Work Product or business opportunities, if any, disclosed to and acknowledged by the Company in writing prior to the date hereof.
     10. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be effective only if given in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service, or mailed first-class, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail, as follows (or to such other or additional address as either party shall designate by notice in writing to the other in accordance herewith):
Notices
          10.1 If to the Company:
Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902 Attention: General Counsel
          10.2 If to you, to your residence address set forth on the records of the Company.
 
     11. .
General
          11.1 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of Connecticut applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely in Connecticut.
Governing Law
          11.2 . The section headings contained herein are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Captions
          11.3 . This Agreement, including Annex A, sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, written or oral, between the parties.
Entire Agreement
          11.4 . No representation, promise or inducement has been made by either party that is not embodied in this Agreement, and neither party shall be bound by or be liable for any alleged representation, promise or inducement not so set forth.
No Other Representations
          11.5 . This Agreement and your rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by you and except as specifically contemplated in this Agreement, neither you, your legal representative nor any beneficiary designated by you shall have any right, without the prior written consent of the Company, to assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate, anticipate or commute to any person or entity any payment due in the future pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, and any attempt to do so shall be void and shall not be recognized by the Company. The Company shall assign its rights together with its obligations hereunder in connection with any sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's business and assets, whether by merger, purchase of stock or assets or otherwise, as the case may be. Upon any such assignment, the Company shall cause any such successor expressly to assume such obligations, and such rights and obligations shall inure to and be binding upon any such successor.
Assignability
          11.6 . This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded, cancelled, renewed or extended and the terms or covenants hereof
Amendments; Waivers
 
may be waived only by written instrument executed by both of the parties hereto, or in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance. The failure of either party at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect such party's right at a later time to enforce the same. No waiver by either party of the breach of any term or covenant contained in this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be, or construed as, a further or continuing waiver of any such breach, or a waiver of the breach of any other term or covenant contained in this Agreement.
          11.7 . In addition to such other rights and remedies as the Company may have at equity or in law with respect to any breach of this Agreement, if you commit a material breach of any of the provisions of Sections 8.1, 8.2, or 9, the Company shall have the right and remedy to have such provisions specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction, it being acknowledged and agreed that any such breach or threatened breach will cause irreparable injury to the Company.
Specific Remedy
          11.8 . Except as provided in the preceding Section 11.7, any dispute or controversy arising with respect to this Agreement and your employment hereunder (whether based on contract or tort or upon any federal, state or local statute, including but not limited to claims asserted under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, any state Fair Employment Practices Act and/or the Americans with Disability Act) shall, at the election of either you or the Company, be submitted to the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") for resolution in arbitration in accordance with the rules and procedures of AAA. Either party shall make such election by delivering written notice thereof to the other party at any time (but not later than 45 days after such party receives notice of the commencement of any administrative or regulatory proceeding or the filing of any lawsuit relating to any such dispute or controversy) and thereupon any such dispute or controversy shall be resolved only in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.8. Any such proceedings shall take place in Stamford, CT before a single arbitrator (rather than a panel of arbitrators), pursuant to any streamlined or expedited (rather than a comprehensive) arbitration process, before a non-judicial (rather than a judicial) arbitrator, and in accordance with an arbitration process which, in the judgment of such arbitrator, shall have the effect of reasonably limiting or reducing the cost of such arbitration. The resolution of any such dispute or controversy by the arbitrator appointed in accordance with the procedures of AAA shall be final and binding. Judgment upon the award rendered by such arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof, and the parties consent
Resolution of Disputes
 
to the jurisdiction of the Connecticut courts for this purpose. If at the time any dispute or controversy arises with respect to this Agreement, AAA is not in business or is no longer providing arbitration services, then JAMS/ENDISPUTE shall be substituted for AAA for the purposes of the foregoing provisions of this Section 11.8. If you shall be the prevailing party in such arbitration, the Company shall promptly pay, upon your demand, all legal fees, court costs and other costs and expenses incurred by you in any legal action seeking to enforce the award in any court.
          11.9 . Whenever this Agreement provides for any payment to your estate, such payment may be made instead to such beneficiary or beneficiaries as you may designate by written notice to the Company. You shall have the right to revoke any such designation and to redesignate a beneficiary or beneficiaries by written notice to the Company (and to any applicable insurance company) to such effect.
Beneficiaries
          11.10 . You represent and warrant to the Company that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon you and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of your obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which you are a party (including, without limitation, any other employment agreement). The Company represents and warrants to you that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon the Company and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which the Company is a party.
No Conflict
          11.11 . Payments made to you pursuant to this Agreement shall be subject to withholding and social security taxes and other ordinary and customary payroll deductions.
Withholding Taxes
          11.12 . Neither you nor the Company shall have any right to offset any amounts owed by one party hereunder against amounts owed or claimed to be owed to such party, whether pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise, and you and the Company shall make all the payments provided for in this Agreement in a timely manner.
No Offset
 
          11.13 . If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby; provided, however, that the parties shall negotiate in good faith with respect to equitable modification of the provision or application thereof held to be invalid. To the extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law, each party hereby waives any provision of law which renders any provision of this Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect.
Severability
          11.14 . Sections 8 through 11 shall survive any termination of the term of employment by the Company for cause pursuant to Section 4.1. Sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 7 through 11 shall survive any termination of the term of employment pursuant to Sections 4.2, 5 or 6.
Survival
          11.15 . The following terms are defined in this Agreement in the places indicated:
Definitions
affiliate  Section 4.2.2 Average Annual Bonus  Section 4.2.1 Base Salary  Section 3.1 Bonus  Section 3.2 cause  Section 4.1 Code  Section 4.2.2 Company  the first paragraph on page 1 Competitive Entity  Section 8.2 Disability Date  Section 5 Disability Period  Section 5 Effective Date  the first paragraph on page 1 Severance Term Date  Section 4.2.2 Term Date  Section 1 term of employment  Section 1 termination without cause  Section 4.2.1 Work Product  Section 9
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
ANNEX A
     Pursuant to the terms of the Employment Agreement made as of , between TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a subsidiary of TIME WARNER CABLE INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), located at 290 Harbor Drive, Stamford, CT 06902 and the undersigned (the "Agreement"), and in consideration of the payments made to me and other benefits to be received by me pursuant thereto, I, , being of lawful age, do hereby release and forever discharge the Company and any successors, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, predecessors, merged entities and parent entities and their respective officers, directors, shareholders, employees, benefit plan administrators and trustees, agents, attorneys, insurers, representatives, affiliates, successors and assigns from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, or demands for general, special or punitive damages, attorney's fees, expenses, or other compensation or damages (collectively, "Claims"), which in any way relate to or arise out of my employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or the termination of such employment, which I may now or hereafter have under any federal, state or local law, regulation or order, including without limitation, Claims related to any stock options held by me or granted to me by the Company that are scheduled to vest subsequent to my termination of employment and Claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, each as amended through and including the date of this Release; , , that the execution of this Release shall not prevent the undersigned from bringing a lawsuit against the Company to enforce its obligations under the Agreement.
                    
                    
provided
however
     I acknowledge that I have been given at least 21 days from the day I received a copy of this Release to sign it and that I have been advised to consult an attorney. I understand that I have the right to revoke my consent to this Release for seven days following my signing. This Release shall not become effective or enforceable until the expiration of the seven-day period following the date it is signed by me.
     I ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT BY SIGNING THIS RELEASE I MAY BE GIVING UP VALAUBLE LEGAL RIGHTS AND THAT I HAVE BEEN ADVISED TO CONSULT A LAWYER BEFORE SIGNING. I further state that I have read this document and the Agreement referred to herein, that I know the contents of both and that I have executed the same as my own free act.
 
     WITNESS my hand this day of , .
     
                    
     

 
Exhibit 10.40
January 16, 2007
Landel Hobbs Chief Operating Officer Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06802
     RE:       Employment Agreement Amendment
Dear Landel:
     Pursuant to Section 11.6 of your employment agreement dated August 31, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement"), in connection with the relocation of Time Warner Cable Inc.'s (the "Company") principal corporate offices to One Time Warner Center, New York, N.Y., the Company seeks a limited waiver of a breach of Section 2(iv) (place for performance of your services) of the Employment Agreement.
     By signing this letter where indicated below you hereby agree that the Company's relocation of its principal corporate offices and the addition of New York, New York as the place for performance of your services does not constitute a breach of Section 2(iv) of the Employment Agreement and you hereby waive any breach of Section 2(iv) with respect to the relocation to New York, New York.
     The Company does not seek a waiver with respect to any other provision of the Employment Agreement or any other change in the place of performance of your services.
Sincerely,
/s/ Marc Lawrence-Apfelbaum
Marc Lawrence-Apfelbaum
AGREED TO:
Landel Hobbs
/s/ Landel Hobbs                             

 
Exhibit 10.41
TIME WARNER CABLE LETTERHEAD
December 19, 2005
Mike LaJoie Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, CT 06902
Dear Mike:
In accordance with Section 4.10 of the Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") dated as of June 1, 2000 between you and Time Warner Entertainment Company, LP., a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable Inc., which Agreement expires on December 31, 2005, the Company hereby offers to extend the Agreement with the same terms and conditions (except as amended below) until December 31, 2008.
Section 2.1 of the Agreement is hereby amended to provide that you shall serve as Executive Vice President & Chief Technology Officer and that you shall report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Section 3.1 of the Agreement is hereby amended to provide that your Base Salary, as defined in the Agreement, will be an amount not less than $420,600.00. Section 3.2 of the Agreement is hereby amended to provide that your Target Bonus, as defined in the Agreement shall be 80%, subject to the Company's discretion as described in the Agreement. No other provisions of Sections 2.1, 3.1, 3.2 or any other provisions of the Agreement are hereby amended.
Please indicate your acceptance of the foregoing extension of' the Agreement by signing this letter and returning it to the Company by December 31, 2005. Failure to do so will be deemed an election by you to terminate your employment without cause pursuant to Section 4.3 of the Agreement.
Very truly yours, TIME WARNER ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, L.P., a subsidiary of TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
 
 
          AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") made as of June 1, 2000, between Time Warner Cable, a division of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Company"), and Michael Lajoie (the "Executive").
          Pursuant to the Employment Agreement dated as of November 1, 1998 between the Company and the Executive (the "Original Agreement"), the Company had secured the services of the Executive on a full-time basis for the period to and including April 30, 2001, on and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Original Agreement.
          The Company and the Executive now wish to amend and restate the Original Agreement, and to continue Executive's term of employment, on the terms and conditions provided herein.
          The parties therefore agree as follows:
          1. . The Executive's term of employment, as this phrase is used throughout this Agreement, shall be for the period beginning January 1, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2002, subject, however, to earlier termination as expressly provided herein.
Term of Employment
          2. .
Employment
               2.1. The Company shall, during the term of employment, employ the Executive, and the Executive shall serve, as Vice President, Corporate Development. During the term of employment, the Executive shall have such functions, duties, powers and responsibilities as the Company may from time to time delegate to the Executive, and shall perform such functions, duties, powers and responsibilities at such locations as the Company shall determine,
 
it being understood that the Company will pay or reimburse reasonable moving expenses if it decides to transfer the Executive to another location. The Executive agrees, subject to his/her election as such and without additional compensation, to serve during the term of employment in such particular additional offices of comparable stature and responsibility in the Company and its affiliated companies as the Company may require and to serve as a director and as a member of any committee of the Board of Directors of the Company and its affiliated companies to which he/she may be elected from time to time. During the term of employment, (i) the Executive's services shall be rendered on a substantially full-time, exclusive basis, (ii) he/she will apply on a full-time basis all of his/her skill and experience to the performance of his/her duties in such employment, and shall report to the Senior Vice President Corporate Development of the Company, or to such other corporate officer(s) more senior than the Executive as the Senior Vice President Corporate Development shall determine, and (iii) he/she shall have no other employment and, without the prior written consent of the Senior Vice President Corporate Development of the Company, no outside business activities which require the devotion of substantial amounts of the Executive's time.
               2.2. In addition to Executive's obligations under Section 8.1.4, in performing his or her duties hereunder, Executive shall comply with the Company's and Time Warner Inc.'s ("TWI") written policies on conflicts of interest, service as a director of another company, and other policies and procedures of the Company and TWI, including as described in TWI's Statement of Corporate Policy and Compliance Program Manual, as may be amended or revised from time to time, copies of which, as currently in effect, Executive acknowledges having received.
 
               2.3. Following the term of employment, regardless of whether Executive is considered an employee of the Company, Executive shall not provide any services to or take any actions on behalf of the Company.
          3. .
Compensation
               3.1. . The Company shall pay or cause to be paid to the Executive, during the term of employment, a base salary at the rate of not less than $202,800.00 per annum (the "Base Salary"). The Company may increase, but not decrease, the Base Salary at any time and from time to time during the term of employment.
Base Salary
               3.2. . In addition to Base Salary, the Executive shall be entitled to receive an annual cash bonus based on the performance of the Company and of the Executive. The Executive's target bonus (the "Target Bonus") shall be 40% of the Executive's Base Salary, but the Executive acknowledges that his/her actual bonus (the "Annual Bonus") will vary depending upon the performance of the Company and the Executive. The Company may increase, but not decrease, the Target Bonus at any time and from time to time during the term of employment. The Company's determination of the amount, if any, of Annual Bonuses to be paid to the Executive under this Agreement shall be final and conclusive. Payments of any bonus compensation under this Section 3.2 shall be made in accordance with the then current practices and policies of the Company.
Bonus
               3.3. . The Company shall pay or reimburse the Executive for all reasonable expenses actually incurred or paid by the Executive during the term of employment in the performance of his/her services hereunder upon presentation of expense statements or vouchers or such other supporting information as the Company may customarily require of its executives at Executive's level (as defined in Section 3.6).
Reimbursement
 
               3.4. . Except as specifically contemplated hereunder, neither the Executive nor any legal representative or beneficiary designated by him/her shall have any right, without the prior written consent of the Company, to assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate, anticipate or commute any payment due in the future to such person pursuant to any provision of this Agreement, and any attempt to do so shall be void and will not be recognized by the Company.
No Anticipatory Assignments
               3.5. . To the extent not prohibited by applicable law at the time of the assertion of any liability against the Executive, the Company shall indemnify the Executive to no lesser extent than provided in the By-Laws of Time Warner Inc. and the Partnership Agreement of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. (whichever is the greater extent of indemnification) as in effect on the date hereof or the date of any predecessor employment agreement between the Company and Executive (whichever is the greater extent of indemnification) (the provisions of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein); and Executive will be entitled the benefits of any amendments or additions to such indemnification provisions that add to or broaden the protection afforded to the Executive by those provisions.
Indemnification
               3.6. . References in this Agreement to employee at Executive's level shall mean members of the Executive Group (defined as individuals with an assigned executive compensation level with eligibility for the Long Term Cash Plan and Tier I Level Stock Options or such other substitute plans as the Company may designate from time to time).
Executive Group
          4. . The Company shall have the right to terminate the term of employment for cause or without cause; provided, however, that if such termination is without cause, Executive will be entitled to make an election as provided in Section 4.2 hereunder.
Termination
 
Executive shall have the right to terminate the term of employment (a) because of a material breach of this Agreement by the Company and upon such termination to make an election as provided for in Section 4.4 hereunder; (b) on 90 days notice as provided in Section 4.3 hereunder; and (c) pursuant to Executive's exercise of the Retirement Option, pursuant to Section 4.11 hereunder.
               4.1. . The Company may terminate for cause the term of employment and all of the Company's obligations hereunder, other than its obligations set forth below in Section 4.1.1. Termination by the Company for cause shall mean termination by the Company because of (a) the Executive's conviction (treating a nolo contendere plea as a conviction) of a felony (whether or not any right to appeal has been or may be exercised); or (b) the Executive's willful refusal without proper cause to perform his/her obligations under this Agreement; or (c) the Executive's material breach of any of the covenants provided for in Sections 2.2 or 8; or (d) the Executive's engaging in willful misconduct that results in a substantial financial loss to, or has a substantial adverse effect on the reputation of, the Company. Such termination shall be effected by written notice thereof delivered by the Company to the Executive and shall be effective as of the date of such notice; provided, however, that if (i) such termination is because of the Executive's willful refusal without proper cause to perform any one or more of his/her obligations under this Agreement, (ii) such notice is the first such notice of termination for any reason delivered by the Company to the Executive hereunder, and (iii) within five days following the date of such notice, the Executive shall cease his/her refusal and shall use his/her best efforts to perform such obligations, the termination shall be deemed null and void.
Termination by Company for Cause
 
                    4.1.1. In the event of termination of the term of employment by the Company for cause in accordance with the foregoing procedures, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies that the Company may have at law or equity, the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive other than (i) to pay the Base Salary accrued through the effective date of such termination; (ii) to pay any Annual Bonus pursuant to Section 3.2 to the Executive in respect of any year prior to the year in which such termination of employment is effective which has not yet been paid as of such termination; and (iii) with respect to any rights the Executive has under Section 7 through the effective date of termination (except as may be otherwise specifically provided in any such plan or program as of the date of termination) or pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements of the Company maintained for the benefit of its Executive Group. Executive hereby disclaims any right to receive a pro rata portion of his or her Annual Bonus with respect to the year in which such termination occurs.
               4.2. . Provided that notice and termination has not previously been given under any other Section hereof, the Company shall have the right to terminate the term of employment without cause at any time. Such termination shall be effected by written notice thereof delivered by the Company to the Executive and shall be effective as of the date of such notice. If the Company elects to terminate the term of employment without cause, the Executive shall be entitled to elect, by written notice delivered within thirty days of the Company's notice of termination of the term of employment, to receive, at the Executive's option, either (i) a lump sum payment equivalent to thirty months' Base Salary and Annual Bonus, as provided for in Section 4.2.1 hereunder or (ii) periodic payments equivalent to thirty months' Base Salary and Annual Bonus, as provided for in Sections 4.2.2 hereunder. The Executive shall also be entitled to receive executive level
Termination by Company Without Cause
 
outplacement services (including reasonable office space as designated by the Company) for a period of one year after the date of notice of such termination.
                    4.2.1. . In the event the Executive shall elect, pursuant to Section 4.2, to receive a lump sum payment, he/she shall receive a one-time payment equivalent to thirty months' Base Salary (as such Base Salary is in effect immediately prior to the notice of the termination) and Annual Bonus, with the Annual Bonus due the Executive in respect thereof being equal to the greater of (a) the Executive's then applicable Target Bonus amount multiplied by 2.5, or (b) the average of the regular Annual Bonus amounts (excluding the amount of any special or spot bonuses) received by the Executive from the Company for the two years immediately preceding the year of termination of the term of employment, multiplied by 2.5; provided, however, that if such termination occurs prior to the payment of two Annual Bonuses to the Executive by the Company, then the calculation of the Annual Bonus payable under clause (b) of this Section 4.2.1 shall be Executive's Target Bonus (if no bonuses paid), or the average of the Executive's Target Bonus amount and the Annual Bonus paid (if only one Annual Bonus has been paid).
Lump Sum
                    4.2.2. . In the event the Executive shall elect, pursuant to Section 4.2, to receive periodic payments, he/she shall be placed on a leave of absence (the "Leave") as an inactive employee of the Company for thirty months following the date of termination of the term of employment, whether or not he/she becomes disabled as provided for in Section 5 hereunder. During the Leave, the Executive shall not be required to provide any services to the Company and shall receive (i) a Base Salary at an annual rate equal to his/her Base Salary as is in effect immediately prior to the notice of termination, and (ii) an Annual Bonus in respect of each calendar year or portion thereof (in which case a pro rata
Periodic Payments
 
portion of such Annual Bonus will be payable) during such period equal to the greater of (a) the Executive's then-applicable Target Bonus amount, or (b) the average of the regular Annual Bonus amounts (excluding the amount of any special or spot bonuses) received by the Executive from the Company for the two years immediately preceding the year of termination of the term of employment (subject to the proviso set forth in Section 4.2.1(b)). If the Executive accepts full-time employment with any other person or entity during the Leave or notifies the Company in writing of his/her intention to terminate his/her status as an inactive employee on Leave, then the Executive shall cease to receive the periodic Base Salary and Annual Bonus payments hereunder and the Executive shall be entitled to receive, within thirty days after such commencement or effective date of such employment or termination of status as an inactive employee on Leave, a lump sum payment in an amount representing the balance of the Base Salary and regular Annual Bonuses as the Executive would have been entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 4.2.2 had the Executive remained an inactive employee on Leave. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Executive accepts full-time employment with any Affiliate (as defined below) of the Company, then the periodic Base Salary and Annual Bonus payments provided for in this Section 4.2.2 shall cease and the Executive shall not be entitled to any such lump sum payment. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Affiliate" means any entity which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Company.
               4.3. . Except as provided in Section 4.4 or by reason of Executive's retirement under the terms of Section 4.11 or of any retirement plan in which employees of the Company are generally eligible to participate, Executive may not terminate his or her employment under this Agreement except upon 90 days prior written notice and only if notice of termination has not previously been given under any
Termination By Executive Without Cause
 
other Section hereof. Upon the effectiveness of such termination. Executive's employment with the Company will terminate, and the Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive other than (i) to pay the Base Salary accrued through the effective date of such termination; (ii) to pay any Annual Bonus pursuant to Section 3.2 to the Executive in respect of any year prior to the year in which such termination of employment is effective which has not yet been paid as of such termination; and (iii) with respect to any rights the Executive has under Section 7 through the effective date of termination (except as may be otherwise specifically provided in any such plan or program as of the date of termination) or pursuant to any insurance or other benefit plans or arrangements of the Company maintained for the benefit of its Executive Group. Executive hereby disclaims any right to receive a pro rata portion of his or her Annual Bonus with respect to the year in which such termination occurs.
               4.4. . The Executive shall have the right, exercisable by delivery of written notice to the Company, to terminate the term of employment effective fifteen days after the giving of such notice, if, at the time of such notice, the Company shall be in material breach of its obligations hereunder; provided that, with the exception of a breach of clause (a) below, such notice shall be deemed null and void and the term of employment shall not so terminate if within such fifteen-day period the Company shall have cured all such material breaches of its obligations hereunder. The parties acknowledge and agree that a material breach by the Company shall include, but not be limited to, (a) the Company failing to cause the Executive to serve in the capacities set forth in Section 2; and (b) the Company violating the provisions of Section 2 with respect to the Executive's authority, functions, duties or responsibilities (whether or not accompanied by a change in title). After the effective date of such termination, the Executive shall have no further obligations or
Termination by Executive for Material Breach by the Company
 
liabilities to the Company whatsoever (except for his/her obligation under Section 4.8, if any, and his/her obligations under Section 8 and 9, which shall survive such termination). If Executive terminates the term of employment because of a material breach of the Agreement by the Company, Executive shall be entitled to elect, by written notice delivered within fifteen days of Executive's notice of termination, to receive, at Executive's option either (i) a lump sum payment equivalent to thirty months' Base Salary and Annual Bonus, or (ii) periodic payments equivalent to thirty months' Base Salary and Annual Bonus, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 hereunder, respectively.
               4.5. During the period the Executive is on Leave pursuant to Section 4.2.2 and during any period of disability described in Section 5, the Executive shall continue to be eligible to receive the benefits required to be provided to the Executive under Section 7 to the extent such benefits are maintained in effect by the Company for members of its Executive Group (as defined in Section 3.6); provided, however, the Executive shall not be entitled to any additional awards or grants under any stock option, restricted stock or other cash or stock-based long term incentive plan. At the time the Executive leaves the payroll of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Sections 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 5 or 6, the Executive's rights to benefits and payments under any benefit plans or any insurance or other death benefit plans or arrangements of the Company or under any stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right, bonus unit, management incentive or other plan of the Company shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plans and any agreements under which such stock options, restricted stock or other awards were granted.
               4.6. In the event the term of employment and the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated pursuant to Sections 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.1 1, 5 or
 
6 (and regardless of whether the Executive elects clause (i) or (ii) as provided in Sections 4.2 and 4.4), the Executive shall not be entitled to any other notice or severance or to be paid for any unused sabbatical, the payments provided for in such Sections being in lieu thereof. The Executive shall be paid out for unused vacation time accrued in the year of termination of employment only.
               4.7. Any obligation of the Executive to mitigate his/her damages pursuant to Section 4.9 shall not be a defense or offset to the Company's obligation to pay the Executive in full the amounts provided in Sections 4.2.1 or 4.2.2 or the timely and full performance of any of the Company's other obligations under this Agreement.
               4.8. In partial consideration for the Company's obligation to make the payments described in Sections 4.2 and 4.4, or as a result of Executive's election of the Retirement Option described in Section 4.11 herein, Executive shall execute and deliver to the Company a release which shall include the substance of the terms of the Separation Agreement and Release in the form as set forth in Exhibit A or such other form as is satisfactory to the Company. The Company shall deliver the form of such release to Executive within a reasonable period of time after the Executive has made the election set forth in Sections 4.2 or 4.4, or within a reasonable period of time following Executive's providing a Notice of Election of Retirement Option under Section 4.11 therein. Executive shall execute and deliver such release to the person designated for receipt of notices under Section 10.1 within thirty days of his/her receipt thereof from the Company. If Executive shall fail to execute and so deliver to the Company such release within thirty days of his/her receipt thereof from the Company, Executive shall receive, in lieu of the payments described in Sections 4.2, 4.4, or 4.11, a lump sum cash payment in an amount
 
determined in accordance with the severance policies for non-contract Executives of the Company then applicable.
               4.9. . In the event of the termination of employment by the Executive as a result of a material breach by the Company of any of its obligations hereunder, the Executive shall not be required to seek other employment in order to mitigate his/her damages hereunder, and, regardless of the period with respect to which paid, no compensation or other payments from any other employment, services or activity of the Executive shall be applied by the Company in reduction of or be payable or paid by the Company pursuant to Sections 4.2 and 4.4; provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, if there are any damages hereunder by reason of the events of termination described above which are contingent on a change (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2)(A)(I) of the Internal Revenue Code), the Executive shall be required to mitigate such damages hereunder, including any such damages theretofore paid, but not in excess of the extent, if any, necessary to prevent the Company from losing any tax deductions to which it otherwise would be entitled in connection with such damages if they were not so contingent on a change. With respect to the preceding sentences, any payments or rights to which the Executive is entitled by reason of the termination of the term of employment by the Executive pursuant to Section 4.4 or in the event of the termination of the term of employment by the Company pursuant to Section 4.2 shall be considered as damages hereunder.
Mitigation
               4.10. . Assuming that Executive has not yet attained the age of sixty-five at the end of the term of this Agreement, in the event that the Company does not offer Executive a new Employment Agreement similar to this Employment Agreement with a term of at least thirty months, the Executive shall be entitled
Effect of Non-Tender of Subsequent Agreement
 
to receive, as thirty months' severance, all of the benefits and payments as described in Section 4.2, with Executive being entitled to make the election outlined in Section 4.2. Except as provided herein, the Company shall not be obliged to further employ the Executive. If the Executive has attained the age of sixty-five by the end of the term of this Agreement, nothing herein shall oblige the Company to tender him/her a similar agreement, and no severance shall be due Executive in the event of the Company's failure to do so.
               4.11. . Provided that, at the time of election, the Executive (a) is actively employed by the Company, (b) has reached the age of fifty-five, and (c) has been employed by the Company as member of the Executive Group (as defined in Section 3.6) for at least five years the Executive may elect, by providing written notice to the Company in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "B," the Retirement Option, as outlined below:
Retirement Option
                    4.11.1. Within fifteen days of the Executive's exercise of the Retirement Option, the Company and the Executive will attempt to agree upon the length a "Transition Period" of between six and twelve months. The Transition Period shall commence as of the date of Executive's written notice to the Company of his/her Retirement Option election.
                         4.11.1.1. If the parties are unable, within the fifteen-day period, to agree on the length of the Transition Period, then the Transition Period shall be for six months.
                         4.11.1.2. During the Transition Period, the Executive will remain actively employed, at Executive's then-current rate of compensation, and, in addition to Executive's other regular functions and responsibilities, will assist the Company in identifying, recruiting, and training the Executive's replacement. The Executive will continue to be responsible for the management, direction, and performance of his/her division, operating unit
 
or department during the Transition Period to the full extent that Executive was so responsible prior to the Transition Period.
                    4.11.2. At the conclusion of the Transition Period, the term of employment hereunder will cease and Executive will become an advisor to the Company (the "Advisory Period") as follows:
                         4.11.2.1. The Advisory Period will extend for thirty-six months. During the Advisory Period, the Executive will receive compensation as follows: (a) for the first twelve months, Executive's then-current Base Salary and bonus; (b) for the second twelve months, Base Salary, plus 50% bonus; and (c) for the third twelve months, Base Salary only. The bonus amount paid in (a) and (b) will be calculated as follows: The bonus amount paid will be the greater of Target Bonus or the average of the two most recent full year Annual Bonuses earned (excluding any special or spot bonuses). All payments pursuant to this subsection shall be made in accordance with the Company's ordinary timing and procedures for salary and bonus compensation.
                         4.11.2.2. The Executive will continue to vest in any outstanding stock options and long-term cash incentives (or any other similar plan) during the Advisory Period; however, the Executive will not be entitled to any additional awards or grants. The Executive will also continue to be eligible to participate in any deferred compensation plans and any Company-sponsored benefit plans, savings plans, pension plans and group insurance plans (including medical, dental and vision care, long-term disability, and life insurance) as if he/she were actively employed during the Advisory Period. If the Executive elected premium reimbursement from the Company in lieu of Company-paid group term life insurance, the payments in effect at the end of the Transition Period will be continued until the end of the
 
Advisory Period. If the Executive did not elect premium reimbursement from the Company, group term life insurance equal to the amount provided at the end of the Transition Period will be continued until the end of the Advisory Period.
                         4.11.2.3. The Executive will not be provided with office space or secretarial services by the Company during the Advisory Period. However, as soon as possible following the end of the Transition Period, the Executive will receive a lump-sum payment of $10,000, less appropriate taxes and deductions, as reimbursement for office expenses incurred during the Advisory Period. No further payments or reimbursements will be made for office Space or secretarial services during the Advisory Period.
                         4.1 1.2.4. During the Advisory Period, the Executive will be eligible for reimbursement of financial and estate planning expenses, in the same amount and under the same terms as other Executives at Executive's level.
                         4.11.2.5. The Executive shall not be eligible for a Company-provided car or car allowance during the Advisory Period. Any Company-provided car in the possession of the Executive will be returned by the Executive to the Company prior to the commencement of the Advisory Period.
                         4.11.2.6. During the Advisory Period, the Executive will provide such advisory services concerning the business, affairs and management of the Company as may be requested by the Company's management, but shall not be required to devote more than five days per month (up to eight hours per day), to such services. The services shall be performed at a time and place mutually convenient to both parties. The Company will reimburse the Executive for any expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred in providing such
 
services, other than expenses of the nature set forth in Section 4.1 1.2.3. The Company may require proof of the expenses incurred, via receipts or other appropriate documentation.
                         4.1 1.2.7. The election of this Retirement Option, including the compensation and benefits payable during the Transition Period and the Advisory Period described herein above, are in lieu of any and all benefits, compensation, and payments available under this Agreement. Executive shall have no further rights to such compensation and benefits thereunder, except as outlined herein, once Executive elects this Retirement Option. Executive will continue to be bound to Executive's obligations under this Agreement, except where expressly modified herein.
                         4.11.2.8. If the Executive accepts other employment during the Advisory Period, (a) he/she will be terminated from payroll and will receive a lump-sum payment for the balance of the salary and bonuses payable during the Advisory Period and (b) his/her participation in all incentive, benefit and insurance plans or perquisites of the Company including Stock Option and Long Term Cash Plans, shall be determined in accordance with Company procedures and plan documents. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Executive accepts employment with any not-for-profit Entity (defined as an entity that is exempt or in the process of obtaining exemption from federal taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code), then the Executive shall be entitled to remain on the payroll of the Company and receive the payments as provided above.
                         4.11.2.9. Unless specifically requested by the Company, the Executive will not be expected to attend any management meetings, trade shows, conferences, or other similar events or activities, and will not be reimbursed for the costs of such activities during the Advisory Period.
 
                         4.11.2.10. The Executive's election of the Retirement Option as outlined herein shall be irrevocable.
                         4.11.2.11. The Executive shall, in partial consideration for the payments to be made pursuant to Executive's election of the Retirement Option, execute and deliver to the Company a release as described in Section 4.8 herein.
          5. . Provided that an effective notice of termination has not previously been given under any Section hereof, if Executive becomes ill or is injured or disabled during the term of this Agreement such that Executive fails to perform all or substantially all the duties to be rendered hereunder and such failure continues for a period in excess of twenty-six consecutive weeks (a "Disability"), the Company may terminate the term of employment of Executive under this Agreement upon written notice to Executive at any time and thereupon Executive shall be entitled to receive (i) any earned and unpaid Base Salary accrued through the date of such termination, (ii) subject to the terms thereof, any benefits which may be due to Executive under the provisions of any benefit plans, savings plans, pension plans, and group insurance plans, and (iii) a lump sum cash payment equal to two and one-halftimes the sum of the Executive's then current Base Salary plus the greater of (a) the average of his/her Annual Bonus amount paid over the last two years (subject to the proviso set forth in Section 4.2.1(b)), multiplied by 2.5, or (b) the Executive's then applicable Target Bonus amount multiplied by 2.5.
Disability
          6. . Provided that the term of employment has not been earlier terminated hereunder, upon the death of the Executive, this Agreement and all benefits hereunder shall terminate (except as otherwise provided in any benefit, savings, incentive or other plan or program of the Company), except that the Executive's estate (or a
Death Benefit; Life Insurance
 
designated beneficiary thereof) shall be entitled to receive: 1) If Company paid Life Insurance above $50,000 has been waived, Company paid Life Insurance of $50,000 (and Executive will be entitled to his/her Group Universal Life Insurance death benefit from the insurance company, if any has been elected); or, 2) Company paid Life Insurance equal to thirty months of Executive's Base Salary plus bonus compensation based on the greater of (a) the average of the regular Annual Bonus amounts (excluding the amount of any special or spot bonuses) received by the Executive from the Company for the most recent two years (subject to the proviso set forth in Section 4.2.1(b)), times 2.5, or (b) the Executive's then applicable Target Bonus amount multiplied by 2.5.
          Further, during the period the Executive is receiving periodic payments under Section 4.2.2, the Executive will be provided with the Life Insurance benefit available prior to termination. If the Executive elected premium reimbursement from the Company in lieu of full group term life insurance, the payments in effect prior to the date notice of termination is given will be continued through the end of the salary continuation period. If the Executive did not elect premium reimbursement from the Company, group term life insurance equal to the amount provided prior to the date notice of termination is given will be continued through the end of the salary continuation period.
          7. . Except as otherwise provided herein, during the term of employment, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in any pension, profit-sharing, stock option, group insurance, hospitalization, medical, dental, accident, disability or similar plan or program of the Company now existing or established hereafter to the extent that he/she is eligible under the general provisions thereof. The Executive shall also be entitled to receive other
Benefits
 
benefits generally available to all members of the Executive Group, to the extent that he/she is eligible therefor.
          8. .
Protection of Confidential Information; Non-competition; Non-solicitation
               8.1. . The Executive acknowledges that his/her employment by the Company (which, for purposes of this Section 8 shall mean the Company and its affiliated entities) will, throughout the term of employment, bring him/her into close contact with many confidential affairs of the Company, including information about costs, profits, markets, sales, products, key personnel, pricing policies, trade secrets, customer lists, operational methods, technical processes and other business affairs and methods and other information not readily available to the public, and plans for future development (collectively, the "Confidential Information"). The Executive further acknowledges that the business of the Company is international in scope, that its products are marketed throughout the world, that the Company competes in nearly all of its business activities with other organizations that are or could be located in nearly any part of the world and that the nature of the Executive's services, position and expertise are such that he/she is capable of competing with the Company from nearly any location in the world. In recognition of the foregoing, the Executive covenants and agrees:
Covenants
                    8.1.1. The Executive will keep secret all Confidential Information of the Company, including without limitation, the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and will not disclose such matters to anyone outside of the Company, either during or after the term of employment, except with the Company's written consent, provided that (i) the Executive shall have no such obligation to the extent such matters are or become publicly known other than as a result of the Executive's breach of his/her obligations hereunder, (ii) the Executive may, after
 
giving prior notice to the Company to the extent practicable under the circumstances, disclose such matters to the extent required by applicable laws or governmental regulations or judicial or regulatory process, and (iii) the Executive may disclose the terms and provisions of this Agreement to his/her spouse and legal, tax and financial advisors.
                    8.1.2. The Executive will deliver promptly to the Company upon termination of the term of employment or at any other time the Company may so request, at the Company's expense, all memoranda, notes, records, reports and other documents (and all copies thereof) relating to the Company's business, which he/she obtained while employed by, or otherwise serving or acting on behalf of, the Company and which he/she may then possess or have under his/her control.
                    8.1.3. Executive will not at any time denigrate, ridicule, or intentionally criticize the Company or any of its products, properties, Executives, officers or directors, including, without limitation, by way of news interviews, or the expression of personal views, opinions, or judgments to the news media.
                    8.1.4. Executive will not at any time during the term of employment and for a period of one year after termination of the term of employment for any reason, solicit (or assist or encourage the solicitation of) any Executive of the Company to work for Executive or for any person or entity in which Executive owns or expects to own more than a 1% equity interest or for which Executive serves or expects to serve as an Affiliated Person (as defined in Section 8.1.5 herein). For the purposes of this Section, the term "solicit any Executive" shall mean Executive's contacting, or providing information to others who may be expected to contact, any Executive of the Company regarding their employment status, job satisfaction, interest in seeking employment with Executive or any Affiliated Person or any
 
related matter, but shall not include general print advertising for personnel or responding to an unsolicited request for a personal recommendation for or evaluation of an Executive of the Company.
                    8.1.5. Executive hereby expressly covenants and agrees that he/she will not, at any time during the term of employment and for a period of one year after the termination of the term of employment for any reason, be or become an officer, director, partner or Executive of or consultant to or act in any managerial capacity with or own any equity interest in any person or entity (an "Affiliated Person") which is a "Competitive Business Entity" (as such term is defined on Exhibit C hereto); provided, however, that ownership of less than 1% of the outstanding equity securities of any entity listed on any national securities exchange or traded on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System shall not be prohibited hereby.
               8.2. . In addition to such other rights and remedies as the Company may have at equity or in law with respect to any breach of this Agreement, if the Executive commits a material breach (or such a breach is threatened) of any of the provisions of Sections 2.2, 8.1, or 9, the Company shall have the right and remedy to have such provisions specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction, it being acknowledged and agreed that any such breach or threatened breach will cause irreparable injury to the Company and that money damages will not provide an adequate remedy to the Company.
Specific Remedy
          9. . The Executive acknowledges that during the period the Executive is (and has been) employed by the Company, he/she may conceive of, discover, invent or create inventions, improvements, new contributions, literary property, material, ideas and discoveries, whether patentable or copyrightable or not (all of the foregoing
Ownership of Work Product
 
being collectively referred to herein as "Work Product"), and that various business opportunities shall be presented to him/her by reason of his/her employment by the Company. The Executive acknowledges that, unless the Company otherwise agrees in writing, all of the foregoing shall be owned by and belong exclusively to the Company and that he/she shall have no personal interest therein, provided that they are either related in any manner to the business (commercial or experimental) of the Company, or are, in the case of Work Product, conceived or made on the Company's time or with the use of the Company's facilities or materials, or, in the case of business opportunities, are presented to him/her for the possible interest or participation of the Company. The Executive shall further, unless the Company otherwise agrees in writing, at any time (i) promptly disclose any such Work Product and business opportunities to the Company; (ii) assign to the Company, upon request and without additional compensation, the entire rights to such Work Product and business opportunities; (iii) sign all papers the Company deems necessary to carry out the foregoing; and (iv) give testimony in support of his/her inventorship or creation in any appropriate case. The Executive agrees that he/she will not assert any rights to any Work Product or business opportunity as having been made or acquired by him/her prior to the date of this Agreement (or predecessor Agreements with the Company) except for Work Product or business opportunities, if any, disclosed to and acknowledged by the Company in writing prior to the date hereof (or thereof). The provisions of this Section are in addition to, and not in limitation of, any separate agreement regarding similar matters executed by the Executive.
          10. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally, or mailed first-class, postage prepaid, by registered or
Notices
 
certified mail, as follows (or to such other or additional address as either party shall designate by notice in writing to the other in accordance herewith):
               10.1. If to the Company:
Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, Connecticut 06902-2266 Attention: General Counsel
               10.2. If to the Executive, to the address set forth on the records of the Company.
          11. .
General
               11.1. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to New York's choice of law provisions.
Governing Law
               11.2. . The section headings contained herein are for reference purposes only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Captions
               11.3. . This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings, written or oral, between the parties.
Entire Agreement
               11.4. . No representation, promise or inducement has been made by either party that is not embodied in this Agreement, and neither party shall be bound by or be liable for any alleged representation, promise or inducement not so set forth.
No Other Representations
               11.5. . This Agreement and the Executive's rights and obligations hereunder may not be assigned by the Executive. This Agreement will be binding on any successors or assigns of the Company.
Assignability
 
               11.6. . This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded, canceled, renewed or extended, and the terms or covenants hereof may be waived only by written instrument executed by both of the parties hereto, or in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance. The failure of either party at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect such party's right at a later time to enforce the same. No waiver by either party of the breach of any term or covenant contained in this Agreement, whether by conduct or otherwise, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be, or construed as, a further or continuing waiver of any such breach, or a waiver of the breach of any other term or covenant contained in this Agreement.
Amendments; Waivers
               11.7. . Whenever this Agreement provides for any payment to the Executive's estate, such payment may be made instead to such beneficiary or beneficiaries as the Executive may designate in writing filed with the Company. The Executive shall have the right to revoke any such designation and to redesignate a beneficiary or beneficiaries by written notice to the Company (and to any applicable insurance company) to such effect.
Beneficiaries
               11.8. . The Executive represents and warrants to the Company that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon the Executive and the execution of this Agreement and the performance of the Executive's obligations hereunder does not and will not constitute a breach of, or conflict with the terms or provisions of, any agreement or understanding to which the Executive is a party (including, without limitation, any other employment agreement). The Company represents and warrants to the Executive that this Agreement is legal, valid and binding upon the Company, and the Company is not a party to any
No Conflict
 
agreement or understanding which would prevent the fulfillment by the Company of the terms of this Agreement.
               11.9. . All payments required to be paid by the Company to Executive under this Agreement will be paid in accordance with the payroll practices of the Company and/or the terms of the Company's benefit, savings, pension, insurance and incentive plans and programs, as the case may be, and will be subject to withholding taxes, social security and other payroll deductions as required by law and/or in accordance with the Company's policies applicable to members of the Executive Group and the terms of such plans and programs.
Withholding
               11.10. . The Company and its Affiliates shall have the right to use Executive's name, biography and likeness in connection with their respective businesses, but not for use as a direct endorsement.
Use of Likeness
               11.11. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Validity
               11.12. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
               11.13. . The Company and its Affiliates are entitled to amend, modify, terminate or otherwise change at any time or from time to time any and all benefit plans, incentive plans and policies, practices or procedures referred to in this Agreement.
Changes
               11.14. . Except as provided for in Section 8.2 above, the Company and the Executive agree that any claim, dispute, controversy or the like
Resolution of Disputes
 
(collectively, the "Dispute") arising out of or relating to this Agreement (including the Exhibits annexed hereto), including, without limitation, its validity or a breach thereof, shall be resolved by binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the Commercial Tribunal of the American Arbitration Association. The Company and the Executive further agree that any Dispute relating to, arising in the context of, or being asserted for the first time after, termination of the term of employment including but not limited to any alleged violation of any local, state or federal anti-discrimination statute or ordinance, or any Dispute that Executive was subjected to discriminatory harassment in violation of any local, state or federal anti-discrimination statute, shall also be resolved by binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the Commercial Tribunal of the American Arbitration Association. The Company and the Executive expressly waive their rights, if any, to a trial of any such Disputes by a jury.
                    11.14.1. The Company and the Executive agree that (a) any Dispute shall be arbitrated by three neutral arbitrators who shall issue a written opinion and award, (b) the award may be vacated in the event of bias, corruption, fraud or where an arbitrator exceeds his/her powers, and (c) judgment upon the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof
                    11.14.2. The Executive may choose to have the arbitration hearing pursuant to this Section 11.14 take place in either Stamford, Connecticut, or New York City, New York. The Company agrees that if the Executive is the prevailing party in such arbitration, the Company shall pay the arbitrators' fees and related AAA administrative costs.
 
'
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
Agreed to and accepted as of the date first above written
EXECUTIVE
Vice President, Corporate Development
Annual Salary: $202,800.00
Target Annual Bonus Percentage: 40%
Address for Notices: 97 Erickson Drive Stamford, CT 06903
 
          This Separation Agreement and Release (this "Agreement"), effective as of the date set forth in Paragraph 30 below, is made and entered into by and between Time Warner Cable (the "Company"), a division of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., and (the "Executive"). The Company and Executive are from time to time referred to herein as the "parties." By this Agreement, the parties intend to, and do hereby settle any and all differences, disputes, grievances, claims, charges and complaints, whether known or unknown, accrued or unaccrued, actual or alleged that Executive either has or arguably may have against the Company, its affiliates including, but not limited to, Time Warner Inc., and each of their respective subsidiaries or predecessors or successors thereto (hereinafter respectively "Affiliates" and "Subsidiaries") or that the Company, its Affiliates or Subsidiaries either have or arguably may have against Executive, as discussed herein.
                    
                    
                    
          In consideration of the mutual covenants, conditions and obligations set forth herein, the parties agree as follows:
          [1. Pursuant to Section 4.2.1 of the Amended and Restated Employment and Termination Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2000, between the Company and Executive ("the Employment Agreement"), Executive shall receive a one-time lump sum payment equal to $.]
                    
          [1. Pursuant to Section 4.2.2 of the Amended and Restated Employment and Termination Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2000, between the Company and Executive (the "Employment Agreement"), Executive shall be place on a leave of absence (the "Leave") as an
 
inactive Executive of the Company for thirty months following the date of termination of the term of employment, whether or not he/she becomes disabled as provided for in Section 5 of the Employment Agreement. During the Leave, Executive shall receive his/her regular annual earnings of $ less statutory deductions and other voluntary deductions (i.e., group insurance) paid biweekly through . Executive shall also receive an Annual Incentive Plan bonus (AIP) payment of $ each year, less statutory deductions, for three years, payable in [month] of , and . [The Executive shall also receive a prorated payment of $ to be paid in February of .] If the Executive accepts full-time employment with any other person or Entity during such Leave or notifies the Company in writing of his/her intention to terminate his/her status as an inactive employee on Leave, then the Executive will be terminated from payroll and will receive a lump sum payment in an amount representing the balance of the annual salary and bonuses payable during the thirty month period pursuant to Section 4.2.2 of the Employment Agreement. (Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Executive accepts full-time employment with any Affiliate of the Company (for this purpose only, as "Affiliate" is defined in the Employment Agreement), then the periodic annual salary and bonus payments provided for in Section 4.2.2 of the Employment Agreement shall cease, and the Executive shall not be entitled to any such lump sum payment.) If the Executive leaves payroll within one year after separation from the Company, any lump-sum payment will be paid in two installments. At the time the Executive leaves payroll, 75% will be paid; the remaining 25% will be paid on the first anniversary date of the notice of termination. By signing this agreement Executive acknowledges his obligation to inform the Company of the date the new position will commence immediately after accepting other employment.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                     
                    
 
          2. The parties agree that Executive's Time Warner stock options granted under the Time Warner Stock Option Plan (the "Option Plan") will continue to vest during the period the Executive remains on payroll.
          3. The parties agree that the Executive's rights under the Time Warner Cable Long Term Cash Plan shall be determined by the provisions of the Plan as in effect on the date of this Agreement. If active employees receive payments for any cycles of this Plan for which the Executive received a grant, the Executive will be eligible to receive a payment at the end of each cycle. Any such payments will be prorated based on the date the Executive terminates from payroll. The Executive received grants under the ___, ___, and ___Long Term Cash Plans.
          4. The parties agree that the Executive's pension rights and rights in the Time Warner Cable Savings Plan shall be determined by the provisions of the Time Warner Cable Pension Plan and Savings Plan, respectively, as in effect on the date of this Agreement (collectively, the "Pension and Savings Plans"). Further, the parties agree that full distribution of the Executive account balances held in the Time Warner Cable Savings Plan may occur following termination of the Executive from payroll, upon Executive's request.
          5. The parties agree that the Executive will be provided with coverage under the Company's group insurance plans at the employee contribution rate as long as the Executive remains on payroll. The Executive will be subject to any increases in employee contributions and any changes in the group insurance benefit package which occur during the salary continuation period. Following termination of group insurance benefits, the Executive may continue medical, dental, and vision coverage for up to eighteen (18) months by following the applicable COBRA procedures and paying the full monthly premium.
 
          6. The parties agree that the Executive will be provided with the life insurance benefits and, if elected, premium reimbursements as specified under his/her Employment Agreement as long as the Executive remains on payroll.
          7. Based on the Company's payroll records as of and the termination date of , Executive's unused vacation balance is hours. Assuming payroll records are current, this would result in a vacation payout of . The parties agree the vacation balance will be verified prior to payout.
                    
                    
                    
                    
          8. Under the Employment Agreement, the Executive is entitled to executive level outplacement services (including reasonable office space as designated by the Company) at no cost to the Executive for the one year period following the date of termination of active employment (insert date).
          9. The parties agree that the Executive will be eligible for reimbursement of financial counseling expenses during the period he remains on payroll, provided active employees at his level receive these benefits. Financial counseling expense reimbursement will be limited to the amounts available to active employees at the Executive's level.
          10. Executive does hereby release and forever discharge the Company and its Affiliates and Subsidiaries and each of their respective officers, shareholders, subsidiaries, agents, successors, predecessors, assigns, and employees and their respective agents, heirs, executors, administrators, estates, beneficiaries and representatives, of and from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, or demands for general, special or punitive damages, attorneys' fees, expenses, or other compensation, that in any way relate to or arise out of Executive's employment with the Company and/or its Affiliates and Subsidiaries or the termination of such employment which Executive may now or hereafter have, under any federal, state or local law,
 
regulation or order (including without limitation, under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C.  621 et seq., as amended, through and including the date of this Agreement), or otherwise. This release shall not apply to any act of fraud or criminal conduct by the Company, its Affiliates or Subsidiaries, of which Executive is not aware as of the date of this Agreement, nor to any act of non-compliance with terms of this Agreement by the Company.
          11. The Company, its Affiliates and Subsidiaries, do hereby release and forever discharge Executive, his/her agents, heirs, executors, administrators, estate, beneficiaries and representatives, of and from any and all actions, causes of action, claims or demands for general, special, and punitive damages, attorneys' fees, expenses, and other compensation, that in any way relate to or arise out of the Company's employment of Executive or the termination of such employment which the Company, its Affiliates or Subsidiaries may now or hereafter have, under any federal, state, or local law, regulation, or order, as amended, or otherwise, through and including the date of this Agreement. This release shall not apply to any act of fraud or criminal conduct by Executive of which the Company, its Affiliates or Subsidiaries are not aware as of the date of this Agreement, nor to any act of non-compliance with terms of this Agreement by Executive.
          12. Executive agrees that this Agreement shall terminate upon his/her death, and thereupon the Company shall not have any obligations hereunder, except that Executive's estate or beneficiaries shall be entitled to all unpaid compensation payable to Executive hereunder and to all other benefits which may be due to Executive and Executive's estate or beneficiaries at the time under the general provisions of any employee benefit plan of the Company in which Executive is then a participant.
 
          13. Executive hereby expressly covenants and agrees that Executive will keep secret all Confidential Information of the Company, including without limitation, the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and will not disclose such matters to anyone outside of the Company, except with the Company's written consent (except as permitted in Paragraph 20 below and Section 8.1.1 of the Employment Agreement).
          14. Executive hereby grants and assigns to the Company all rights (including, without limitation, any copyright or patent) to the Work Product and any business opportunities presented to him/her by reason of his/her employment by the Company. Any work in connection therewith shall be considered "work made for hire" under the Copyright law of 1976 or any successor thereto, and the Company shall be the owner of such work as if the Company were the author of such work. Executive will execute and deliver to the Company any documents or instruments evidencing the Company's ownership thereof as reasonably requested by the Company. The provisions of this Paragraph are in addition to, and not in limitation of, any separate agreement regarding similar matters executed by the Executive.
          15. Executive hereby expressly covenants and agrees that:
               (a) Executive shall not for a period of one year following , be or become an officer, director, partner or Executive of or consultant to or act in any managerial capacity with or own any equity interest in any person or Entity (an "Affiliated Person") which is a "Competitive Business Entity" (as such term is defined on Exhibit A hereto), , , that ownership of less than one percent of the outstanding equity securities of any Entity listed on any national securities exchange or traded on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System shall not be prohibited hereby.
                    
provided
however
 
               (b) Executive will not at any time for a period of one year following solicit (or assist or encourage the solicitation of) any employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to work for Executive or for any person or Entity in which Executive owns or expects to own more than a one percent equity interest or for which Executive serves or expects to serve as an Affiliated Person.
                    
     For the purpose of this Paragraph 15(b), the term "solicit any employee" shall mean Executive's contacting, or providing information to others who may be expected to contact, any employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates regarding their employment status, job satisfaction, interest in seeking employment with Executive or any Affiliated Person or any related matter, but shall not include general print advertising for personnel or responding to an unsolicited request for a personal recommendation for or an evaluation of an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
          16. . (a) Executive certifies that he has returned to the Company all property of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates in his possession or control (whether maintained at his office, home or elsewhere), including, without limitation, all copies of all management studies, business or strategic plans, budgets, notebooks and other printed, typed or written materials, documents, diaries, calendars and data of or relating to the Company or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or their respective personnel or affairs.
Documents; Conduct
     (b) Executive expressly covenants and agrees that Executive will not at any time denigrate, ridicule or intentionally criticize the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any of their respective products, properties, employees, officers or directors, including, without limitation, by way of news interviews, or the expression of personal views, opinions or judgments to the news media or in any type of public forum.
 
          17. Executive agrees that, if called upon to do so by the Company, he/she shall truthfully testify in Court or before an administrative agency concerning matters or disputes which arose or were pending during his/her tenure with the Company. Executive further agrees to make himself/herself available, upon reasonable notice and at reasonable times, to be interviewed and to cooperate, at the request of the Company, or its counsel, in connection with any litigation, proceeding, inquiry or investigation to which the Company is or may become involved. The Company agrees that if it should call upon Executive to so testify or to be interviewed or cooperate, the Company shall reimburse Executive for expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred by Executive for testifying, being interviewed or cooperating, excluding costs and fees of any attorney whom Executive may wish to retain to represent him/her. Further, in the event Executive is called upon to testify, be interviewed or cooperate, the Company shall make available to Executive all books. documents and other discoverable items necessary for him/her to give complete and truthful testimony.
          18. Executive agrees that he/she will not voluntarily assist or encourage other persons to file complaints or claims of any kind against the Company. To that end, Executive agrees not to commence, prosecute or participate in (except as required by law) any action or proceeding of any kind against the Company and agrees not to assist, encourage, or provide support for, directly or indirectly, to any other person in connection with any action or proceeding of any kind against the Company, except as required by law.
          19. Executive agrees that he/she will not make any disclosure of any of the facts or circumstances giving rise to any allegations he/she has made regarding the Company or any of its employee s, regarding any policies or practices of the Company, regarding his/her disagreements with any employee s of the Company, or regarding any matters that came to
 
his/her attention during the course of his/her employment by the Company. Executive also agrees that he/she will not solicit or initiate any demand or request by others for any such disclosure of any such information.
          20. Executive agrees that he/she will not disclose the financial terms of this Agreement to any person, firm, corporation or other entity, except that Executive may disclose the financial terms to federal or state tax authorities, his/her attorneys, accountants, or family and, subject to the condition precedent that he deliver to the Company upon request a confidentiality agreement in customary form, if he/she is applying for credit, to the lenders involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Executive shall be requested or required in a judicial, administrative or governmental proceeding to disclose the financial terms of this Agreement (whether by way of oral questions, interrogatories, requests for information or documents, subpoenas or similar process), Executive will notify the Company (attention of General Counsel) as promptly as possible of such request or requirement so that the Company may either seek an appropriate protective order or waive Executive's compliance with the provisions of this paragraph. If, in the absence of such protective order or waiver, Executive is nevertheless, in the written opinion of Executive's counsel, otherwise required to disclose the financial terms of this Agreement to any court, government agency or tribunal or else stand liable for contempt or suffer other censure or penalty, Executive may disclose such financial terms to such court, governmental agency or tribunal without liability hereunder.
          21. It is expressly understood and agreed that the payment(s) by the Company of the amounts set forth herein is being given to Executive in return for Executive's agreements and covenants contained in this Agreement. Neither payment by the Company of the amounts set
 
forth herein nor any term or condition contained in this Agreement shall be construed by either party at any time as an admission of liability or wrongdoing in any manner whatsoever.
          22. Executive agrees and acknowledges that in executing and delivering this Agreement. (a) he/she has done so freely and voluntarily; (b) that he/she was advised in this writing to consult with an attorney of his/her choice; (c) that he/she has had a reasonable opportunity to confer with legal counsel of his/her own choosing; (d) that he/she executed this Agreement with knowledge of all the material facts, and not as a result of any duress, concealment, fraud, or undue influence; (e) that he/she was advised that he/she would have at least [twenty-one or forty-five] days to consider this Agreement; (f) that it would become fully enforceable unless he/she revoked it in writing directed to the General Counsel of the Company within seven days of executing it; and (g) he/she will not receive any of the consideration provided for under this Agreement if he/she does not execute it or if he/she revokes it within the revocation period.
          23. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is found or deemed to be illegal or otherwise invalid and unenforceable, whether in whole or in part, such invalidity shall not affect the enforceability of the remaining terms hereunder.
          24. This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous understandings between the parties hereto with regard to such subject matter (provided that provisions of the Employment Agreement that do not expressly terminate upon termination of the term of employment thereunder and which are not in conflict with the terms hereof shall continue to survive and be in effect regardless of this Agreement). This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York
 
applicable to contracts made and to be performed therein. The terms of the Agreement may not be modified, except in writing and signed by the party against whom the enforcement of any such modification may be sought.
          25. The parties understand and agree that this Agreement is solely for the purposes set forth herein, and does not constitute, and is not intended to constitute, a general policy of the Company in dealing with employee separations.
          26. All notices, consents, requests, instructions and other communications provided for herein shall be validly given, made or served if in writing and delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid to:
          27. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          28. . Executive hereby expressly covenants and agrees that the Company will suffer irreparable damage in the event any provisions of Paragraphs 13, 14 or 15 are not performed or are otherwise breached and that the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction or injunctions and other relief to prevent a breach or violation by Executive and to secure its enforcement of Paragraphs 13, 14 and/or 15. Resort to such equitable
Breach by Executive
 
relief, however, shall not constitute a waiver of any other rights or remedies which the Company may have.
          29. . Except as provided for in Paragraph 28 above, the Company and the Executive agree that any claim, dispute, controversy or the like (collectively, the "Dispute") arising out of or relating to this Agreement (including the Exhibit annexed hereto), including, without limitation, its validity or a breach thereof, shall be resolved by binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the Commercial Tribunal of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA"). The Company and Executive expressly waive their rights, if any, to a trial of any such Disputes by a jury. The Company and Executive agree that (a) any Dispute shall be arbitrated by three neutral arbitrators who shall issue a written opinion and award, (b) the award may be vacated in the event of bias, corruption, fraud or where an arbitrator exceeds his/her powers, and (c) judgment upon the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Executive may choose to have the arbitration hearing take place in either Stamford, Connecticut, or New York City, New York. The Company agrees that if the Executive is the prevailing party in such arbitration, the Company shall pay the arbitrators' fees and related AAA administrative costs.
Resolution of Disputes
          30. Unless earlier revoked, this Agreement shall be effective on the eighth day following its execution by the Executive.
          31. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein are used as defined in the Employment Agreement.
 
          IN WITNESS HEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement, effective as of the date first above written.
EXECUTIVE NOTARY
          On this day of , before me personally came , to me known and known to me to be the person described herein and who executed the foregoing Separation Agreement and General Release, and he/she duly acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same.
                    
                    
                     
                    
 
Time Warner Cable 290 Harbor Drive Stamford, Connecticut 06902-2266
Attention: General Counsel
Dear [Marc]:
Pursuant to Section 4.11 of my Employment Agreement, this is to advise you of my election of the Retirement Option provided therein, effective as of the date of this letter.
Pursuant to Section 4.11.1, I suggest a Transition Period of ___ months, ending on .
                                                               
[Executive]
 
"Competitive Business Entity" shall mean (A) any Entity which is engaged in the United States, either directly or indirectly, in the ownership, operation or management of (i) any cable television system, open video system, direct broadcast system (DBS), SMATV system, pay-per-view system, multi-point distribution system (MDS or MMDS) or other multichannel television programming system (collectively "Systems") in the United States; or (ii) any business of providing any local residential telecommunications, or any internet access or any other transport or network services for Internet Protocol based information; and (B) any federal, state or local authority empowered to grant, renew, modify or amend, or review the grant, renewal, modification or amendment of, or the regulation of, franchises to operate any System. , , that "Competitive Business Entity" shall not mean any cable television system operator which, at all times during the relevant period, has less than 500,000 subscribers and does not serve any area which is also served by a cable television system owned, operated or managed by the Company or its Affiliates.
Provided
however
All capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings provided in the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement to which this Exhibit C is attached.

 
By the Commission: Chairman Martin, and Commissioners Tate and McDowell issuing separate statements; Commissioner Copps dissenting and issuing a statement; and Commissioner Adelstein approving in part, dissenting in part and issuing a statement.
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION
     1. In this Order, we consider the applications ("Applications") of Adelphia Communications Corporation and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession ("Adelphia"), Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"), Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable"), and Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") for consent to the acquisition by Time Warner Cable and Comcast of substantially all of the domestic cable systems owned or managed by Adelphia. The Applications are filed pursuant to sections 214 and 310(d) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended ("Communications Act" or "Act"), and seek Commission consent to a number of license transfers related to a series of separate transactions that would result in (1) the sale of certain cable systems and assets of Adelphia to subsidiaries or affiliates of Time Warner; (2) the sale of certain cable systems and assets of Adelphia to subsidiaries or affiliates of Comcast; (3) the exchange of certain cable systems and assets between affiliates or subsidiaries of Time Warner and Comcast; and (4) the redemption of Comcast's interests in Time Warner Cable and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. ("TWE"). As discussed more fully below, the Applicants assert that approval of the Applications would result in a number of public interest benefits, would not create any anticompetitive effects, and would be fully consistent with Commission rules and policies, including the Commission's remanded cable horizontal and vertical ownership limits.
1
2
3
4
5
6
 
 
     2. According to the Applicants, Comcast would serve approximately 26.8 million subscribers, or 28.9% of all U.S. multichannel video programming distribution ("MVPD") subscribers as a result of the transactions. This would represent a net gain of approximately 680,000 subscribers, or 0.73% of U.S. MVPD subscribers, over Comcast's pre-transaction reach of 26.1 million subscribers, or 28.2% of U.S. MVPD subscribers. Time Warner would serve approximately 16.6 million subscribers post-transaction, or 17.9% of U.S. MVPD subscribers, representing a gain of approximately 3.5 million subscribers over its pre-transaction total of 13.1 million subscribers. Comcast would have more consolidated franchised operations in Southern Florida, including West Palm Beach; Minnesota; New England, including Boston; Pennsylvania, including Philadelphia and Pittsburgh; and the mid-Atlantic region of Washington, D.C., Maryland and Virginia. Time Warner Cable would further consolidate its operations in Southern California, including Los Angeles; Maine; Western New York; North Carolina; Ohio, including Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Columbus; South Carolina; and Texas, including Dallas. As part of the initial phase of this transaction, Time Warner and Comcast separately would acquire Adelphia's cable assets, primarily consisting of cable systems serving approximately five million subscribersfor $12.7 billion in cash. Comcast would pay approximately $3.5 billion in cash. Time Warner would pay approximately $9.2 billion in cash. In addition, Time Warner Cable would issue publicly traded securities, approximately 16% of which would be issued to Adelphia stakeholders, with the remaining 84% to be held by Time Warner.
7
8
,
9
     3. The Applicants state that the transactions would generate substantial public interest benefits that are not otherwise achievable. Specifically, the claimed benefits include (1) accelerated deployment of advanced services (high definition television ("HDTV"), high-speed data, video on demand ("VOD"), digital video recorders, and telephony) to customers currently served by Adelphia; (2) enhanced geographic rationalization (or "clustering") resulting both from the acquisition of Adelphia's systems and the system swaps between Comcast and Time Warner Cable, which would produce cost-saving operational, infrastructure, and marketing efficiencies; (3) Adelphia's emergence from bankruptcy and settlement of creditor claims; and (4) dissolution of Comcast's interests in TWE and Time Warner Cable consistent with the Commission's divestiture order. The Applicants further state that the improved regional coverage of each company's cable operations would provide the scale and scope
10
e.g.,
11
 
 
necessary for them to compete more effectively with the substantially larger service footprints of direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") providers and incumbent local exchange carriers ("incumbent LECs"). The Applicants assert that the public interest benefits resulting from the transactions are not otherwise obtainable because no other potential cable system operator can offer the efficiencies that Time Warner Cable and Comcast, based on the location of their current cable systems, are uniquely able to bring to the Adelphia properties through regionalized management and operation. According to the Applicants, while other potential purchasers of the Adelphia assets might bring a measure of improved performance and innovation to the systems, only Comcast and Time Warner Cable have the combination of capabilities, geographic correlation to Adelphia's systems, and proven track record necessary to maximize such benefits. The Applicants assert that, like the acquisition of the Adelphia systems, the swaps of systems between Time Warner Cable and Comcast will lead to greater "geographic rationalization" of the Applicants' cable systems, which they assert will provide various public interest benefits.
12
13
14
     4. To obtain Commission approval, the Applicants must demonstrate that the proposed transactions will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity pursuant to sections 214 and 310(d) of the Communications Act. The Commission's review of the applications includes an assessment of whether the proposed transactions comply with specific provisions of the Communications Act, other statutes, and the Commission's rules. If the transactions would not violate a statute or rule, the Commission next considers whether the transactions could result in public interest harms by substantially frustrating or impairing the objectives or implementation of the Communications Act or related statutes. The Commission generally weighs any potential public interest harms of proposed transactions against any potential public interest benefits. Applicants have the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the proposed transactions, on balance, serve the public interest.
15
16
17
18
     5. Based on the record before us, and as discussed more fully below, we find that the grant of the Applications, as conditioned, serves the public interest. First, we find that the proposed transactions will comply with all applicable statutes and Commission rules. Second, we find that the potential public interest harms of the proposed transactions, as conditioned, are outweighed by the potential public interest benefits. In regard to the potential harms, we find that the proposed transactions may increase the likelihood of harm in markets in which Comcast or Time Warner have, or may have in the future, an ownership interest in Regional Sports Networks ("RSNs"). The transactions may also trigger harms in the carriage of unaffiliated programming. Therefore, we impose remedial conditions to address our concerns. We do not find that the transactions will lead to any other public interest harms. We also find that the transactions likely will result in certain public interest benefits. More specifically, we find that the transactions are likely to accelerate deployment of Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") service and advanced video services, such as local VOD programming, in Adelphia markets, and facilitate the
 
 
resolution of the bankruptcy proceeding. Therefore, we find that on balance the public interest will be served by approval of the Applications subject to the conditions we impose herein.
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PARTIES
     
A. Adelphia Communications Corporation
     6. Adelphia is the fifth largest multiple cable system operator ("MSO") in the United States and the seventh largest MVPD. Adelphia provides cable television service to approximately five million subscribers. In addition to analog and digital video services, it offers high-speed Internet and other advanced services, including digital video, VOD programming, and digital video recorder ("DVR") services, over Adelphia's broadband networks, primarily to residential customers in 31 states, with significant operations in and around Los Angeles, western Pennsylvania, Ohio, western New York, New England, southeast Florida, Virginia, and Colorado Springs. Adelphia does not own active programming services nor does it offer local telephone service to the public. In June 2002, Adelphia and substantially all of its domestic subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code for relief to reorganize as an independent entity. Adelphia's board of directors approved the reorganization plan, and bidding for the company's assets ensued. In April 2005, Adelphia received supplemental bid protections from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York regarding the sale of certain of its assets to Time Warner Cable and Comcast.
19
20
21
22
23
     
B. Comcast Corporation
     7. Comcast is the nation's largest MVPD and would remain so upon completion of the transactions. Applicants state that, as of May 18, 2005, Comcast served approximately 26.1 million
 
 
subscribers in 35 states and the District of Columbia, or 28.2% of MVPD subscribers nationwide. Of these, approximately 21.5 million were served as of that date by Comcast's wholly owned cable systems, and approximately 4.6 million were served by systems owned jointly by Comcast and other cable operators. Comcast states that upon completion of the transactions, it will serve approximately 26.8 million cable subscribers, or 28.9% of MVPD subscribers. Approximately 23.3 million of these subscribers will be served by wholly owned systems, and 3.5 million will be served by systems owned jointly with others. Although Comcast expects to add approximately 1.8 million subscribers served by wholly owned systems through the transactions, its total number of subscribers served through jointly owned systems will decrease by approximately 1.1 million, for a net increase of 680,000 attributable subscribers, or 0.73% of U.S. MVPD subscribers. As a result of the acquisition of Adelphia systems and the cable system swaps with Time Warner, Comcast will consolidate its regional footprints in Pennsylvania; Minnesota; Southern Florida; the mid-Atlantic region of Washington, D.C., Maryland, and Virginia; and New England.
24
25
26
27
28
     8. In addition to basic cable service, Comcast offers premium movie channels, pay-per-view ("PPV") services, HDTV, VOD programming, DVR services, and interactive programming guides. Comcast provides facilities-based residential local telephone service to approximately 1.225 million customers. Comcast's VoIP service, "Comcast Digital Voice," is currently available to approximately 19 million households in 30 markets. Comcast owns attributable interests in nine national video programming networks, eight regional sports networks ("RSNs"), three team-specific networks, and
29
30
31
32
33
 
 
various other regional and local video programming networks. Comcast holds a 54% interest in the iN DEMAND Networks, which provides high definition content, including VOD and PPV services, and a joint venture interest in PBS Kids Sprout, a new VOD service for preschool children that launched as a network in fall 2005.
34
35
     
C. Time Warner Inc.
     9. Applicants state that as of May 18, 2005, Time Warner Cable owned or managed cable systems serving 13.1 million subscribers in 27 states, making it the nation's second largest cable MSO and third largest MVPD. As a result of the transactions, it would add 3.5 million basic video subscribers and would own systems serving 16.6 million basic subscribers nationally, or 17.9% of MVPD subscribers. Thus, Time Warner Cable expects to emerge as the second largest MVPD in the United
36
37
 
 
States. As a result of the transactions, Time Warner Cable would consolidate its regional operations in Western New York, Ohio, Texas, Southern California, Maine, North Carolina, and South Carolina.
38
     10. In addition to its cable systems, Time Warner's businesses include online interactive services, filmed entertainment, television networks, and publishing. Time Warner provides basic cable programming, digital cable programming, HDTV, VOD, subscription video on-demand ("SVOD"), and DVR service. Time Warner also provides high-speed Internet service to approximately 4.1 million residential subscribers, and it provides VoIP to approximately 500,000 subscribers. Time Warner's America Online businesses include the AOL service, a subscription-based online service with more than 22.2 million members in the United States. In addition to AOL, America Online offers other interactive content and services such as AOL.com, AOL Instant Messenger, Moviefone, MapQuest, and Netscape.com. Time Warner's television networks business consists of domestic and international basic cable networks, pay television programming services, and The WB broadcast television network. Home Box Office, Inc., an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Time Warner, operates Time Warner's pay television programming services, Home Box Office ("HBO") and Cinemax. Time Warner also owns a number of 24-hour local news channels. Additionally, Time Warner holds interests in several RSNs.
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
 
 
     
D. The Proposed Transactions
     11.  The proposed transactions involve a series of discrete agreements and transactions between and among the Applicants. First, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement between Adelphia and Time Warner NY Cable, LLC ("TWNY") and a separate asset purchase agreement between Adelphia and Comcast, TWNY and Comcast would each acquire portions of substantially all of the cable systems owned or operated by Adelphia. In exchange for systems serving approximately 3.7 million subscribers, Time Warner Cable would pay approximately $9.2 billion in cash and would issue to Adelphia stakeholders shares of Time Warner Cable's Class A Common Stock, which are expected to represent approximately 16% of Time Warner Cable's outstanding common equity. Comcast would receive systems serving approximately 1.2 million subscribers and would pay approximately $3.5 billion in cash. The Applicants represent that each of the Adelphia Transactions is
The Adelphia Transactions.
47
48
49
50
51
 
 
conditioned on contemporaneous consummation of the other but clarify that these transactions are not dependent on the occurrence of the system swaps and redemption transactions between Time Warner and Comcast, as described below.
     12. . Pursuant to an exchange agreement, upon consummation of the Adelphia Transactions, affiliates of Time Warner and Comcast would exchange certain cable systems owned by affiliates of Time Warner or Comcast, respectively, together with certain cable systems to be acquired in the Adelphia Transactions. In the swap transactions, Time Warner would receive Comcast systems located in Los Angeles, California; Cleveland, Ohio; and Dallas, Texas; and systems currently owned by Century-TCI Communications, L.P. in the Los Angeles, California area and by Parnassos Communications, L.P. and Western Cablevision, L.P. in Ohio and western New York. Comcast would receive Time Warner Cable systems serving portions of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and certain systems currently owned by Adelphia located in the states of California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Maryland, North Carolina, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, Vermont, Washington, and West Virginia. As a result of the system swaps, Time Warner would gain approximately 2,192,667 subscribers from Comcast. Time Warner would transfer to Comcast approximately 2,002,680 subscribers.
The Time Warner/Comcast Swap Transactions
52
53
54
     13. Prior to consummation of the Adelphia Transactions, and pursuant to the Time Warner Cable Redemption Agreement, Time Warner Cable would redeem Comcast's 17.9% equity interest in Time Warner Cable, now held in a Commission-mandated trust, in exchange for 100% of the common stock of a Time Warner Cable subsidiary that, at the closing of the redemption transaction, would own the Time Warner Cable systems located in or around Minneapolis, Minnesota; Memphis, Tennessee; Cape Coral, Florida; St. Augustine/Lake City/Live Oak, Florida; and Monroe, Louisiana, which together served approximately subscribers as of November 2005. In addition, the Time Warner Cable subsidiary would hold $1.9 billion in cash.
Time Warner Cable Redemption Transaction.
55
56
[REDACTED]
57
58
     14. Under the TWE Redemption Agreement, TWE would redeem Comcast's 4.7% limited partnership interest in TWE in exchange for 100% of the membership interests of a limited liability company that would own the Time Warner Cable systems located in or
TWE Redemption Transaction.
 
 
around Jackson, Mississippi; Shreveport, Louisiana; and Houma, Louisiana, which served approximately subscribers as of November 2005. In addition, the limited liability company would hold $133 million in cash.
[REDACTED]
59
60
     15. Finally, upon completion of the transactions, Time Warner Cable would become a publicly traded company, with Time Warner owning 84% of the common stock and holding 91% voting control of Time Warner Cable. Adelphia stakeholders collectively would hold the remaining 16% of Time Warner Cable. At the close of the transactions, independent directors would comprise half of the board of directors of Time Warner for three years.
61
62
     16. Upon consummation of the Adelphia Transactions, certain Commission licenses held by Adelphia would be assigned or control would be transferred to Comcast, its subsidiaries, or affiliates, and other Adelphia licenses would be assigned to subsidiaries or affiliates of Time Warner Cable. In addition, upon consummation of the Time Warner/Comcast Swap Transactions, control of certain subsidiaries or affiliates of Time Warner Cable or Comcast, respectively, that hold licenses, including certain licenses acquired from Adelphia, would be transferred from Time Warner to Comcast or from Comcast to Time Warner, as the case may be. Finally, upon consummation of the Time Warner Cable Redemption Transaction and the TWE Redemption Transaction, first certain licenses would be assigned to a newly formed Time Warner Cable subsidiary on a basis, and then control of the new entity would be transferred from Time Warner to Comcast. The Applications, filed concurrently, seek Commission consent for those various assignments and/or transfers of control.
pro forma
     
E. Application and Review Process
          
1. Commission Review
     17. On May 18, 2005, pursuant to sections 214 and 310(d) of the Communications Act, Adelphia, Comcast, and Time Warner filed 210 applications (excluding receive-only satellite earth stations) seeking Commission approval of the various assignments and transfers of control associated with the transactions. The Commission released a on June 2, 2005 accepting the applications for filing and establishing the pleading cycle for public comment or petitions to deny. In addition to initial and reply
Public Notice
63
 
 
comments, parties filed six petitions to deny. The Commission has also received over 26,172 informal comments. On December 5, 2005, the Chief of the Media Bureau requested additional information from the Applicants. Applicants' separately filed responses to those requests are included in the record.
64
65
66
     18. . Section 309(d)(1) of the Communications Act, as amended, and section 78.22 of the Commission's rules require that a petition to deny contain specific allegations
Standing/Petitions to Deny
67
68
69
 
 
of fact sufficient to show that the petitioner is a party-in-interest and that grant of the application would be inconsistent with the public interest. Allegations of fact set forth in the petition must be supported by the affidavit of a person with personal knowledge of the facts recited.
prima facie
.70
     19. Applicants assert that the pleadings filed on behalf of CWA/IBEW, Free Press, NHMC, and TAC do not satisfy the statutory requirements of section 309(d)(1) because, among other things, they fail to demonstrate standing as a party-in-interest and/or fail to include an affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge in support of specific factual allegations sufficient to show that grant of the Applications would be inconsistent with the public interest. Therefore, Applicants urge the Commission to treat these pleadings as comments rather than as petitions to deny.
prima facie
71
     20. As an initial matter, we agree that the pleadings filed by CWA/IBEW and TAC fail to meet the requirements of section 309(d)(1) because neither group attached a sworn statement as required by statute. Thus, we conclude that CWA/IBEW and TAC are appropriately treated as informal objectors in the instant proceeding pursuant to Commission Rule 1.41. Nonetheless, we address fully the issues raised by these parties in the applicable sections of this order. However, the pleadings filed by Free Press and NHMC are accompanied by affidavits of persons with personal knowledge of the facts alleged in the petitions, which assert that grant of the Applications would be inconsistent with the public interest. Thus, we find that Free Press and NHMC, respectively, are parties in interest to this proceeding.
72
prima facie
73
          
2. Federal Trade Commission Review
     21. In addition to Commission review, the proposed transactions are subject to review by federal antitrust authorities, in this instance by the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"). The FTC reviews communications mergers and transactions pursuant to section 7 of the Clayton Act, which prohibits
74
 
 
mergers that are likely to lessen competition substantially in any line of commerce. FTC review is limited to an examination of the competitive effects of the transaction, without reference to other public interest considerations.
75
     22. On January 31, 2006, the FTC announced that it had closed its investigation into the acquisition by Comcast and Time Warner Inc. of Adelphia's cable assets and the transactions pursuant to which Comcast and Time Warner Cable will swap various cable systems. The Chairman of the FTC, joined by two commissioners, stated that FTC staff had determined, and they agreed, that the proposed transactions were unlikely to substantially lessen competition in any geographic region in the United States in violation of Section 7 of the Clayton Act. Further, the FTC Chairman concluded that evidence from the staff's investigation indicated that the proposed transactions are "unlikely to make the hypothesized foreclosure or cost-raising strategies profitable for either Comcast or TWC."
76
77
78
III. STANDARD OF REVIEW AND PUBLIC INTEREST FRAMEWORK
     23. Pursuant to sections 214 and 310(d) of the Communications Act, the Commission must determine whether Applicants have demonstrated that the proposed transfers of control of licenses and authorizations held by Adelphia, Time Warner, and Comcast will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity. In making this assessment, the Commission must first determine whether the proposed transactions would comply with the specific provisions of the Act, other applicable statutes, and the Commission's rules. If the transactions would not violate a statute or rule, the Commission considers whether they could result in public interest harms by substantially frustrating or impairing the objectives or implementation of the Act or related statutes. The Commission then employs a balancing process,
79
80
81
82
 
 
weighing any potential public interest harms of the proposed transactions against any potential public interest benefits. The Applicants bear the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the proposed transactions, on balance, would serve the public interest. If the Commission is unable to find that the proposed transactions serve the public interest, or if the record presents a substantial and material question of fact, section 309(e) of the Act requires that the application be designated for hearing.
83
84
85
     24. The Commission's public interest evaluation encompasses the "broad aims of the Communications Act," which include, among other things, a deeply rooted preference for preserving and enhancing competition in relevant markets, accelerating private sector deployment of advanced services, ensuring a diversity of information sources and services to the public, and generally managing the spectrum in the public interest. This public interest analysis may also entail assessing whether a transaction will affect the quality of communications services or will result in the provision of new or additional services to consumers. In conducting this analysis, the Commission may consider technological and market changes, and the nature, complexity, and speed of change of, as well as trends within, the communications industry.
86
87
88
89
90
91
 
 
     25. The Commission's competitive analysis, which forms an important part of its public interest evaluation, is informed by traditional antitrust principles, but is not limited to them. In the communications industry, competition is shaped not only by antitrust law, but also by the regulatory policies that govern the interactions of industry players. In addition to considering whether a transaction will reduce existing competition, therefore, the Commission also must focus on whether the transaction will accelerate the decline of market power by dominant firms in the relevant communications markets and the transaction's effect on future competition. The Commission's analysis recognizes that a proposed transaction may lead to both beneficial and harmful consequences. For instance, combining assets may allow a firm to reduce transaction costs and offer new products, but it may also create market power, create or enhance barriers to entry by potential competitors, and create opportunities to disadvantage rivals in anticompetitive ways.
92
93
94
95
     26. Where appropriate, the Commission's public interest authority enables it to impose and enforce narrowly tailored, transaction-specific conditions that ensure that the public interest is served by the transaction. Section 303(r) of the Communications Act authorizes the Commission to prescribe restrictions or conditions, not inconsistent with law, that may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act. Similarly, section 214(c) of the Act authorizes the Commission to attach to the certificate "such terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and necessity may require." Indeed, unlike the role of antitrust enforcement agencies, the Commission's public interest authority enables it to rely upon its extensive regulatory and enforcement experience to impose and enforce conditions to ensure
96
97
98
 
 
that a transaction will yield overall public interest benefits. Despite its broad authority, the Commission has held that it will impose conditions only to remedy harms that arise from the transaction (i.e., transaction-specific harms) and that are reasonably related to the Commission's responsibilities under the Communications Act and related statutes.
99
100
101
     27. The Applicants question both the jurisdiction of the Commission to determine whether these transactions are in the public interest and the elements of the public interest standard the Commission has applied since 1997. First, the Applicants assert that their licenses for CARS, Business Radio, and Private Operational Fixed services "do not constitute a material aspect of the Parties' cable television operations," and thus the Commission's jurisdiction to conduct a public interest review of the transactions is "tenuous." Applicants state that the Commission's consideration of the license transfers must "account for the nature of the licenses involved and their materiality to [the] business of the licensee." They fail to explain how they interpret materiality or cite any authority for this proposition. Applicants further suggest that the Commission should "routinely" approve merger transactions unless an opposing party submits evidence that a transaction is not in the public interest.
102
103
104
prima facie
105
     28. We reject Applicants' argument that the Commission's jurisdiction to conduct a public interest review of the transactions is "tenuous." Section 214(a) provides in pertinent part that no carrier shall acquire or operate any line, or extension thereof, "unless and until there shall first have been obtained from the Commission a certificate that the present or future public convenience and necessity require or will require the construction or operation, or construction and operation of such additional or extended line." Section 310(d) states in pertinent part that "[n]o construction permit or station license, or any rights thereunder, shall be transferred, assigned, or disposed of in any manner . . . to any person except upon application to the Commission and upon finding by the Commission that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served thereby." Thus, according to the plain language of the statutory sections, each license application is subject to the Commission's public interest review and analysis, and may be granted subject to conditions as are necessary in the public interest. Moreover, we do not agree with Applicants that the authorizations and licenses associated with the instant transactions are insignificant or immaterial to their respective cable operations and service to the public. The parties have filed applications regarding 83 CARS licenses, 123 private land mobile radio and fixed microwave services, 346 television receive-only ("TVRO") licenses, and four section 214 authorizations to effectuate
106
107
 
 
the acquisition and operation of Adelphia's owned or managed cable systems, as well as the subsequent system swaps between Comcast and Time Warner. Contrary to the Applicants' contention, the Commission is required under section 310(d) to conduct a full public interest review, which is particularly important here given the numerous licenses that are sought to be transferred in the instant transactions. The courts have stated that the contours of the Commission's public interest standard are a matter for the Commission's discretion based on its expertise and policy objectives. Although we investigate those issues raised by parties to the proceeding, we will analyze all relevant issues raised by the transactions that in our judgment may significantly affect the public interest.
108
109
110
     29. Free Press maintains that section 314 of the Act imposes an additional standard of review beyond the standards embodied in sections 214 and 309, arguing that grant of the Applications in the form submitted would "likely cause a substantial loss of competition or creation of a monopoly in many geographic areas of the United States" in violation of section 314 of the Communications Act. Free Press claims that the proposed transactions would violate section 314 based on the increase in the national Herfindahl-Hirschmann Index (HHI) to over 1800, a level that Free Press claims the Department of Justice would consider to be indicative of a highly concentrated market. In addition to the increase in national HHI, Free Press argues that the "geographic rationalization" that would result from the transactions would further aggravate the anticompetitive effects. Free Press states that section 314
111
112
113
 
 
requires the Commission to deny the Applications or to impose conditions to alleviate the transactions' anticompetitive affects.
114
     30. We disagree that the instant transactions implicate section 314 of the Communications Act. Section 314 applies to anticompetitive combinations of international radio and cable companies, as well as the anticompetitive operation of international telecommunication facilities. As explained in a recent decision by the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, section 314 was included in the original 1934 Communications Act to preserve competition in international communications. Congress feared that the then-existing competition in the international telecommunications market between high frequency radio companies providing radiogram services and submarine cable companies providing cablegram services might be eliminated in the future as a result of consolidation or mergers among those competitors. Accordingly, the Commission has held that section 314 "prohibits the acquisition of international facilities when the transfer would substantially lessen the competition between radio facilities on the one hand and cable facilities on the other." Free Press fails to present any substantial evidence that the transactions are likely to have anticompetitive effects on international competition. Based on the foregoing, we deny Free Press' request that we analyze the applications under section 314. Accordingly, we consider the concerns raised by Free Press in the context of our established public interest review standard.
115
116
117
118
     31. Finally, we note that the transactions at issue involve a complex combination of cable system sales and swaps. The Applications reflect the cable system ownership that ultimately will result
119
 
 
following the closing of of the transactions. Our evaluation of the harms and benefits associated with this complex combination of transactions would likely change were one of the elements in the combination to be omitted. Approval of the Applications is conditioned, therefore, on consummation of all of the transactions underlying the Applications approved by this Order. In that regard, if certain transactions are not consummated, the Commission may require further consideration and/or reevaluation of the public interest findings set forth herein and may require Applicants to amend their Applications.
all
120
121
     32. Further, our ruling does not address or resolve any state or local franchising requirements or authorizations necessary to be fulfilled or obtained before the transactions are consummated. Therefore, as set forth in the ordering clauses below, we will require the Applicants to provide notice to the Commission of any finding by an LFA of ineligibility to operate a cable system or denial of a franchise transfer application for any cable system that would have undergone a change in ownership as a result of the transactions described in the Applications. We examine the issues surrounding local franchising authority review in greater detail in the procedural section below.
122
IV. APPLICABLE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
     33. Our consideration of potential harms related to MVPD distribution and programming supply is informed by the regulatory framework governing cable ownership, program access, and program carriage. Below we summarize the statutory and regulatory provisions that pertain to these areas of concern.
 
 
     
A. Cable Ownership
     34. In section 613(f) of the Act, adopted as part of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Congress directed the Commission to conduct proceedings to establish reasonable limits on the number of subscribers a cable operator may serve, the "cable ownership limit," and on the number of channels a cable operator may devote to its affiliated programming networks, the "channel occupancy limit." A principal goal of this mandate was to foster a diverse, robust, and competitive market in the acquisition and delivery of multichannel video programming by encouraging the development of alternative and new technologies, including cable and non-cable systems. Congress found that the cable industry, the dominant and increasingly horizontally concentrated medium for the delivery of multi-channel programming, faced virtually no competition at the local level and only limited competition at the regional and national level. The Senate Report concluded that increased horizontal concentration could give cable operators the power to demand that programmers provide "cable operators an exclusive right to carry the programming, a financial interest, or some other added consideration as a condition of carriage on the cable system." Additionally, Congress found that the increase in vertical integration between cable operators and programmers provided the incentives and opportunities for cable operators to favor affiliated over non-affiliated programmers and, similarly, for programmers to favor affiliated over non-affiliated operators in the distribution of video programming. Thus, given the absence of competition, Congress believed that certain structural limits were necessary.
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
     35. Congress intended that the structural ownership limits mandated by section 613(f) would ensure that cable operators did not use their dominant position in the MVPD market, acting unilaterally or jointly, to unfairly impede the flow of video programming to consumers. At the same time, Congress recognized that multiple system ownership could provide benefits to consumers by allowing efficiencies in the administration, distribution, and procurement of programming, as well as by providing capital and a ready subscriber base to promote the introduction of new programming services.
130
131
     36. In 1993, based on proceedings initiated pursuant to section 613(f), the Commission established the cable ownership and channel occupancy limits. The cable ownership limit, which has since been amended, prohibited any cable operator from serving more than 30% of all homes passed by
132
 
 
cable systems nationwide. The channel occupancy limit, which remains in effect, prohibited a cable operator from carrying affiliated programming on more than 40% of its activated channels, up to 75 channels. In adopting these limits, the Commission found that the 30% cable ownership limit "is generally appropriate to prevent the nation's largest MSOs from gaining enhanced leverage from increased horizontal concentration," while at the same time, "ensur[ing] that a majority of MSOs continue to expand and benefit from the economies of scale necessary to encourage investment in new video programming services and the deployment of advanced cable technologies." To reflect changed market conditions and allow for organic growth in subscribership, the Commission revised the 30% cable ownership limit in 1999 to permit a cable operator to reach 30% of all MVPD subscribers, rather than solely cable subscribers. The Commission found that the 40% channel occupancy limit remains "appropriate to balance the goals of increasing diversity and reducing the incentive and ability of vertically integrated cable operators to favor their affiliated programming, with the benefits and efficiencies associated with vertical integration." The 75-channel maximum reflected the Commission's recognition that expanded channel capacity would reduce the need for channel occupancy limits as a means of encouraging cable operators to carry unaffiliated programming. The Commission also recognized that the dynamic state of cable technology required that it undertake periodic reviews of the channel occupancy limit.
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
     37. On review, in (""), the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit reversed and remanded the Commission's decision imposing the cable ownership and channel occupancy limits. The court found that the limits unduly burdened cable operators' First Amendment rights, the Commission's evidentiary basis for imposing the limits did not meet the applicable standards of review, and the Commission had failed to consider
Time Warner Entertainment Co. v. FCC
Time Warner II
140
141
142
 
 
sufficiently changes that had occurred in the MVPD market since passage of the 1992 Act. The court did not vacate the rules.
143
Time Warner II
144
     38. In response to the court's remand, the Commission issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to address how to revise the limits in compliance with the court's directives. The comments and evidentiary record compiled in response to the Cable Ownership Further Notice did not provide a sufficient evidentiary basis for setting new limits, and the Commission therefore released a Second Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, seeking updated and more specific comment on the pertinent issues. That proceeding is pending. Comcast and Time Warner will be expected to comply with any revised limits that the Commission may adopt in the pending rulemaking proceeding.
145
146
     
B. Program Access
     39. In section 628 of the Communications Act, adopted as part of the 1992 Act, Congress directed the Commission to promulgate rules governing MVPDs' access to programming. At that time, Congress was concerned that most cable operators enjoyed a monopoly in program distribution at the local level. Congress found that vertically integrated program suppliers had the incentive and ability to favor their affiliated cable operators over nonaffiliated cable operators and programming distributors using other technologies. Section 628 is intended to foster the development of competition to traditional cable systems by facilitating competing MVPDs' access to cable programming services. DBS was among the technologies that Congress intended to foster through the program access provisions. As a general matter, the program access rules prohibit a cable operator, a satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable interest, or a satellite broadcast programming vendor from engaging in "unfair methods of competition or unfair or deceptive acts or practices, the purpose or effect of which is to hinder significantly or to prevent any MVPD from providing satellite cable programming or satellite broadcast programming to subscribers or consumers." Thus, Congress
147
148
149
150
151
152
 
 
acknowledged that access to satellite cable programming was essential to ensure competition and diversity in the satellite programming and MVPD markets.
     40. The program access rules adopted by the Commission specifically prohibit cable operators, a satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable interest, or a satellite broadcast programming vendor from (1) significantly hindering or prohibiting an MVPD from making satellite cable programming available to subscribers or consumers; (2) discriminating in the prices, terms, and conditions of sale or delivery of satellite cable programming; or (3) entering into exclusive contracts with cable operators unless the Commission finds the exclusivity to be in the public interest. Aggrieved entities can file a complaint with the Commission. Remedies for violations of the rules may include the imposition of damages and the establishment of reasonable prices, terms, and conditions for the sale of programming.
153
154
155
156
157
     41. As required by statute, in 2002, the Commission examined the developments and changes in the MVPD marketplace in the ten years since the enactment of section 628 and considered whether the exclusivity prohibition in its program access rules should sunset. The Commission considered whether, without the exclusivity prohibition, vertically integrated programmers would have the incentive and ability to favor their affiliated cable operators over nonaffiliated MVPDs and, if they would, whether such behavior would harm competition and diversity in the distribution of video programming. The Commission held that access to all vertically integrated satellite cable programming continues to be necessary in order for competitive MVPDs to remain viable in the marketplace. The Commission also found that vertically integrated programmers retain the incentive to favor their affiliated cable operators over competing MVPDs. In that regard, the Commission found that cable operators continue to dominate the MVPD marketplace and that horizontal consolidation and clustering, combined with affiliation with regional programming, have contributed to cable's overall market dominance. In addition, the Commission determined that an economic basis for denying competitive MVPDs access to vertically integrated programming continues and concluded that such denial would harm competitors' ability to compete for subscribers. Accordingly, the Commission extended the prohibition on exclusive contracts for satellite-delivered cable and satellite-delivered broadcast programming for five years, until October 5, 2007.
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
     42. The Commission explained that "there is a continuum of vertically integrated programming, ranging from services for which there may be substitutes (the absence of which from a rival MVPD's program lineup would have little impact), to those for which there are imperfect substitutes, to those for
 
 
which there are no close substitutes at all (the absence of which from a rival MVPD's lineup would have a substantial impact)." The Commission found that an MVPD's ability to compete effectively with an incumbent cable operator is significantly harmed if it is denied access to "must have" vertically integrated programming, for which there is no good substitute. Further, the Commission recognized that "certain programming services, such as sports programming, or marquee programming, such as HBO, may be essential and for practical purposes, must haves' for program distributors and their subscribers . . . ." The Commission noted, however, "the difficulty of developing an objective process of general applicability to determine what programming may or may not be essential to preserve and protect competition." The Commission therefore declined to promulgate a generally-applicable rule that defined "essential programming services" in order to narrow the scope of the exclusivity prohibition.
165
166
167
168
169
     
C. Program Carriage
     43. Section 616 of the 1992 Cable Act requires the Commission to establish regulations governing program carriage agreements and related practices between cable operators or other multichannel video programming distributors and video programming vendors. Congress enacted section 616 based on findings that some cable operators had required certain non-affiliated program vendors to grant exclusive rights to programming, a financial interest in the programming, or some other additional consideration as a condition of carriage on the cable system. Accordingly, the Commission's rules implementing section 616 prohibit all MVPDs from (1) demanding a financial interest in any program service as a condition of carriage of the service on its system; (2) coercing any video programming vendor to provide exclusive rights as a condition of carriage; and (3) unreasonably restraining the ability of a video programming vendor to compete fairly by discriminating on the basis of affiliation or non-affiliation of vendors in the selection, terms, or conditions of carriage. The program carriage rules also specify complaint procedures and remedies for violations of these requirements. Complaints may be brought by aggrieved video programmers or MVPDs.
170
171
172
173
V. COMPLIANCE WITH COMMISSION RULES
     44. In this section, we consider whether the transactions are likely to violate any Commission rules. Specifically, we consider whether Comcast and Time Warner will remain in compliance with the
174
 
 
Commission's cable ownership limit, cable channel occupancy rule, and various cross-ownership rules. We find that the transactions will not result in a violation of any of these rules.
175
     
A. National Cable Ownership Limit
     45. The Applicants assert that both Time Warner and Comcast will remain in compliance with the Commission's cable ownership limit after the transactions are completed. Comcast contends that, following the transactions, it will have a national subscribership of 28.9% of all MVPD subscribers, falling within the 30% limit. Comcast states that it currently has approximately 26,100,352 attributable subscribers, or 28.2% of all MVPD subscribers. As a result of the transactions, it expects to gain approximately 680,000 attributable subscribers, for a post-transaction total of approximately 26,780,352 attributable subscribers. Using a denominator of 92.6 million MVPD subscribers nationwide, Comcast calculates that its current national subscribership of 28.2% will increase by 0.73% to 28.9%.
176
177
178
179
180
     46. Comcast's net gain of 680,000 attributable subscribers will result from the acquisition of certain Adelphia systems, followed by the acquisition of systems from Time Warner and the transfer of systems from Comcast to Time Warner, including systems acquired by Comcast from Adelphia. Specifically, Comcast will acquire 138,000 subscribers from Adelphia that were not previously attributable to Comcast. Comcast also will acquire 100% ownership of the Adelphia/Comcast Joint Ventures, which operate cable systems serving approximately 1,082,138 subscribers. These subscribers, however, are currently attributable to Comcast and therefore are included in Comcast's pre-transaction total of 26,100,352 subscribers. From Time Warner, Comcast will acquire cable systems serving 2,740,000 subscribers. Comcast will transfer to Time Warner systems serving 2,198,000 subscribers, including the Adelphia/Comcast Joint Venture systems.
181
182
183
184
185
 
 
     47. Time Warner asserts that, upon completion of the transactions, it will serve fewer than 18% of the nation's MVPD subscribers. Time Warner will gain approximately 3.5 million attributable subscribers, for a total of 14.4 million attributable subscribers served by systems that are owned or managed by Time Warner. Bright House Networks manages an additional 2.2 million subscribers that are currently attributable to Time Warner through its interest in Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership. Dividing the total of 16.6 million attributable subscribers by the Kagan estimate of 92.6 million MVPD subscribers results in a post-transaction national subscribership of 17.9%. Therefore, Time Warner will remain within the Commission's 30% limit.
186
187
188
189
     48. Various parties question Comcast's subscriber figures or assert that its post-transaction reach will exceed the cable ownership limit. None of the parties, however, presents persuasive evidence that Comcast's national reach will exceed the limit as a result of the transactions. Using a Commission 2004 figure for the total number of households served by cable systems, EchoStar asserts that Comcast will control access to more than 35% of the nation's cable subscribers. For purposes of compliance with section 76.503, however, the relevant measure is a cable operator's reach in terms of all MVPD subscribers, not cable subscribers.
190
191
     49. Free Press argues that both Time Warner and Comcast will have national subscriberships above 30% because all of Time Warner's cable systems should be attributed to Comcast, and vice versa. Free Press reasons that such cross-attribution is appropriate because the two companies have the ability to control or influence the programming decisions of iN DEMAND, a limited partnership in which they both own equity. Free Press invokes the Commission's rule that the interests of a limited
192
193
 
 
partnership are attributable to a limited partner if that partner is materially involved in the video programming activities of the partnership. Free Press, however, misunderstands the application of the rule. First, Free Press does not assert that any subscribers are attributable to iN DEMAND because of any ownership interests iN DEMAND has in an MVPD. Second, where a partner has an attributable interest in a media entity, the Commission attributes to that partner all of the media interests held by that entity. It does not, however, attribute to that partner, without more, all of the interests held by other partners in the entity. Free Press has cited no basis under our attribution rules or precedent for its assertion. As we have noted, the attribution rules "identify what types of ownership interests or other relationships are sufficient that two legally separate entities should be treated as if they were commonly owned or managed or subject to significant common influence." Free Press has not indicated how Time Warner's interest in iN DEMAND gives it significant influence over or control of Comcast or how Comcast's interest in iN DEMAND gives it significant influence over or control of Time Warner such that Time Warner's systems should be attributed to Comcast or Comcast's systems should be attributed to Time Warner. Thus, if iN DEMAND had any ownership interests in an MVPD, they would be attributable to Time Warner and to Comcast, but Time Warner's and Comcast's attributable interests in iN DEMAND, without more, do not result in their cable systems being attributed to each other.
194
195
     50. Free Press asserts that, based on information provided shortly after the Applications were filed, Comcast may significantly undercount subscribers, because Comcast rounded its numbers to the nearest thousand and, for several markets, provided post-transaction numbers that were smaller than the pre-transaction numbers provided by the Applicant transferring its system in those markets. However, in verifying Comcast's subscriber totals, we have relied on the more precise data that Comcast furnished under the protective order, and we have resolved the discrepancies for those DMAs where the pre- and post-transaction numbers did not match.
196
197
 
 
     51. Our calculations of Comcast's post-transaction national subscribership are based on data the Applicants provided at the system level for June 2005. Our calculations comport with Comcast's post-transaction estimate of approximately 26,780,352 attributable subscribers. We accept Comcast's use of Kagan as a source of information on MVPD subscribership and find that the Kagan figure the Applicants cite constitutes an acceptable industry estimate. We note, however, that the figure of 92.6 million MVPD subscribers included in the Public Interest Statement has been superseded by more recent estimates. Using Kagan's estimate for the time period during which Comcast's subscriber figures were collected, we find that Comcast would have a national subscribership of 28.7% of U.S. MVPD subscribers as a result of the transactions.
198
199
     52. As discussed above, the Commission currently is re-examining its cable ownership rule. Upon resolution of that proceeding, the Commission will either affirm the 30% limit or adopt a new limit. If the Commission adopts a new limit, the Applicants will be expected to come into compliance with that new limit. In this regard, Time Warner and Comcast have expressed their willingness to "take all steps necessary" to adhere to any new cable ownership limit that we may ultimately adopt.
200
201
     
B. Other Cable Ownership Rules
     53. The Applicants provide adequate assurances that they will comply with all other Commission cable ownership rules. We discuss these rules below.
 
 
     54. . Section 76.504 of the Commission's rules prohibits a cable operator from carrying affiliated programming networks on more than 40% of its activated channels. The rule does not apply to channel capacity in excess of 75 channels. The Applicants state that Time Warner and Comcast will remain in compliance with section 76.504 following the transactions. The Applicants note that the transactions will not involve the acquisition of any attributable interests in national or regional programming networks from Adelphia, and the agreements between Comcast and Time Warner will not involve the exchange of any interests in national or regional programming networks. Time Warner and Comcast have submitted signed affidavits certifying that the transactions will not result in any violation of the channel occupancy limit. Both affidavits state, however, that the companies are still reviewing the channel line-ups of the cable systems to be acquired and compiling the line-ups to be implemented after the transactions are consummated. Therefore, we require that, within 90 days after consummation of the transactions, Time Warner and Comcast each provide to the Commission another affidavit signed by a competent officer of the company certifying without qualification that the company is in compliance with the requirements of section 76.504. The merged entities also must comply with any revisions that the Commission may make to the channel occupancy limit, which has been remanded by the D.C. Circuit.
Limits on Carriage of Vertically Integrated Programming
202
203
204
205
206
     55. . Section 76.501 of the Commission's rules prohibits cable operators from offering satellite master antenna television ("SMATV") service separate and apart from any franchised cable service in any portion of a franchise area served by the cable operator or its affiliates, unless the service is offered in accordance with the terms of a cable franchise agreement. The Applicants acknowledge that some of the Adelphia properties to be acquired may include a small number of SMATV systems. The Applicants state that they will "take immediate steps" to integrate any such SMATV systems that may fall within any Comcast or Time Warner franchise area into their respective cable distribution systems and will offer any cable service provided over such facilities in accordance with the terms and conditions of any applicable franchise agreement. To ensure that Time Warner and Comcast comply with the requirements of section 76.501(d) and (e) regarding cable and SMATV cross-ownership, we require that, within 60 days of consummation of the transactions, Time Warner and Comcast each provide to the Commission an affidavit signed by a competent officer of the company certifying that the requirements of section 76.501(d) and (e) have been satisfied.
Cable/SMATV Cross-Ownership Rule
207
208
209
210
     56. . Our rules impose various restrictions on the ownership of radio and television stations. In addition, cable operators are prohibited from providing broadband radio service ("BRS") within any portions of their franchise areas
Broadcast Ownership Rules and Cable/BRS Cross-Ownership Rule
211
 
 
they actually serve if they use the BRS station as an MVPD. The Applicants state that neither Time Warner nor Comcast expects to own any attributable interest in any broadcast television or radio station or in any BRS station that post-transaction would implicate the broadcast ownership restrictions or the cable/BRS cross-ownership rule.
212
213
     57. . Section 76.505(a) of the Commission's rules prohibits local exchange carriers ("LECs") or their affiliates from acquiring more than a 10% financial interest, or any management interest, in a cable operator that provides cable service within the LEC's telephone service area. Section 76.505(e) defines a LEC's "telephone service area" as an area in which the LEC provided telephone exchange service as of January 1, 1993. The Applicants assert that none of them provided telephone exchange service as of January 1, 1993, and, thus, none has a "telephone service area" as defined by section 76.505(e) of the Commission's rules.
Prohibition on Buy-Outs
214
215
216
     58. Section 76.505(b) of the Commission's rules prohibits a cable operator or its affiliates from acquiring more than a 10% financial interest, or any management interest, in a LEC providing telephone exchange service within the cable operator's franchise area. The Applicants state that neither Time Warner nor Comcast owns a financial interest of greater than 10% or has any management interest in a LEC providing telephone exchange service within any of the franchise areas of the systems they are acquiring pursuant to the transactions.
217
218
VI. ANALYSIS OF POTENTIAL HARMS IN THE RELEVANT MARKETS
     
A. Relevant Markets
     59. In general, competition depends on having choices among products that are close substitutes for one other. If consumers have such choices, a single provider cannot raise its prices above the competitive level because consumers will switch to a substitute. The level of competition depends on what products are substitutes (product market), where those substitute products are available (geographic market), what firms produce them (market participants), and what other firms might be able to produce substitutes if the price were to rise (market entrants). To evaluate the impact of proposed transactions on competition, we examine the characteristics of competition in the relevant product and geographic markets and determine the impact of the transactions on market participants and potential entrants. Transactions raise competitive concerns when they reduce the availability of substitute choices (., increase market concentration) to the point that the acquiring firm has a significant incentive and ability to engage in anticompetitive actions such as raising prices or reducing output. Economic theory describes both how such anticompetitive actions can harm consumers and how the magnitude of the harm can be measured.
i.e
 
 
     60. In analyzing MVPD transactions, the Commission has generally examined two separate but related product markets: (1) the distribution of programming to consumers ("the distribution market") and (2) the acquisition of programming ("the programming market"). The Applicants are significant participants in both of these product markets, and we therefore analyze the markets below. Specifically, we examine whether the transactions are likely to contravene Commission policy goals by analyzing the potential effects the transactions may have on MVPD competition and on the flow of video programming to consumers.
219
220
          
1. MVPD Services
                                                   
a. Product Market
     61. MVPDs include cable operators, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") providers, and "overbuilders." MVPDs bundle programming networks into groups of channels or "tiers" and sell this programming to consumers, deriving revenues from subscription fees and the sale of advertising time that they receive through their carriage agreements. MVPDs sometimes seek exclusive access to certain programming to ensure that their direct competitors are unable to offer it to their subscribers.
221
222
     62. CWA/IBEW argue that DBS and cable are not part of the same product market. They cite various papers and reports that conclude that high switching costs limit substitution between the two services, that only the presence of second cable operators will result in "significant cable price decreases," and that DBS is a substitute for premium cable service, but not for the type of cable service that most subscribers use. In addition, they note that because DBS does not offer voice telephony or high-speed Internet access, it cannot offer the "triple play" bundle of services consumers are seeking. Finally, CWA/IBEW argue that DBS is disadvantaged by other barriers to competitive entry, including
223
224
225
226
227
 
 
cable operators' exclusive access to programming and satellite providers' limited access to multiple dwelling units.
228
     63. In past transaction reviews, in analyzing possible effects of the proposed transaction on the distribution of video programming, the Commission has found that the relevant product market is all MVPD services. This approach also is consistent with the Commission's traditional delineation of the product market for cable services. Therefore, consistent with applicable Commission precedent, we find that the relevant product market for evaluating the proposed transactions is "multichannel video programming service" distributed by all MVPDs.
229
230
231
     64. In the past, the Commission has concluded that the relevant geographic market for MVPD services is local because consumers make decisions based on the MVPD choices available to them at their residences and are unlikely to change residences to avoid a small but significant increase in the price of MVPD service. In order to simplify the analysis, the Commission has aggregated consumers that face the same choice in MVPD products into larger relevant geographic markets. We find it appropriate to continue this approach here. Because the major MVPD competitors in most areas are the local cable operator and the two DBS providers, and consistent with the Commission's approach in prior license transfer proceedings, we find that the franchise area of the local cable operator is the relevant geographic market for purposes of this analysis.
232
233
          
2. Video Programming
     65. Companies that own cable programming networks both produce their own programming and acquire programming produced by others. They package and sell this programming as a network or networks to MVPDs for distribution to consumers. To provide multichannel video services to subscribers, MVPDs combine cable programming networks and broadcast television signals with distribution on their cable, satellite, or wireless distribution networks. Owners of cable programming networks are compensated in part through license fees that are based on the number of subscribers served by the MVPDs that carry the networks. These license fees are negotiated based on "rate cards" that specify a top fee, but substantial discounts are negotiated based on the number of MVPD subscribers and on other factors, such as placement of the network on a particular programming tier. Most cable
234
235
236
237
 
 
programming networks and MVPDs also derive revenue by selling advertising time during the programming.
238
     66. We find that markets that include video programming are classic differentiated product markets. Video programming differs significantly in terms of characteristics, focus, and subject matter. Programming is offered by over-the-air broadcast stations; national cable networks, including news, entertainment and hobby networks; and various regional networks, including, in particular, regional sports networks. Among cable programming networks, some offer programming of broad interest and depend on a large, nationwide audience for profitability; others also seek large nationwide audiences but offer content that is more focused in subject; and yet others seek nationwide distribution, but offer narrowly tailored programming, focusing on a "niche within a niche." Some cable programming networks do not seek a national audience but are regional or even local in scope, including regional sports and local or regional news networks. We have previously found that at least a certain proportion of MVPD subscribers view certain types of programming as so vital or desirable that they are willing to change MVPD providers in order to gain or retain access to that programming.
239
240
241
242
243
     67. Nothing in the record suggests a need for us to define rigorously all the possible relevant product markets for video programming networks. For purposes of our analysis, we will separate the video programming products offered by Comcast and Time Warner into two broad categories: (1) national cable programming networks and (2) regional cable networks, particularly regional sports networks.
     68. We have found it reasonable to approximate the relevant geographic market for video programming by looking to the area in which the program owner is licensing the programming. For national cable programming networks, the relevant geographic market therefore is at least national in scope. Such networks are generally licensed to MVPDs nationwide, and, in some cases, they are licensed internationally. In contrast, with respect to regional sports networks ("RSNs") and other regional networks, we conclude, as we did in the and transactions, that the relevant geographic market is regional. In general, contracts between sports teams and RSNs limit the distribution of the content to a specific "distribution footprint," usually the area in which there is
244
Comcast-AT&T
News Corp.-Hughes
245
 
 
significant demand for the specific teams whose games are being transmitted. MVPD subscribers outside the footprint are unable to view many of the sporting events that are among the most popular programming offered by RSNs. We thus find it reasonable to define the relevant geographic market for regional networks as the "distribution footprint" established by the owner of the programming.
246
247
     
B. Introduction to Potential Harms
     69. Transactions involving the acquisition of a full or partial interest in another company may give rise to concerns regarding "horizontal" concentration and/or "vertical" integration, depending on the lines of business engaged in by the two firms. A transaction is said to be horizontal when the firms in the transaction sell or buy products that are in the same relevant product and geographic markets and are therefore viewed as reasonable substitutes. Horizontal transactions can eliminate competition between the firms and increase concentration in the relevant markets. The reduction in overall competition in the relevant markets may lead to substantial increases in prices paid by purchasers or decreases in prices paid to sellers of products in the markets. The result in either case is that less output is sold.
248
     70. Vertical transactions raise slightly different competitive concerns. Vertical relationships exist when upstream firms produce inputs that downstream firms use to create finished goods. Transactions are said to be vertical when upstream firms and downstream firms are combined. A merging of the firms, however, is not required for a vertical relationship to exist. Exclusive dealing arrangements between upstream and downstream firms, referred to as "vertical restraints," can accomplish the objectives of vertical integration.
249
     71. At the outset, it is important to note that antitrust law and economic analysis have viewed vertical transactions more favorably than horizontal transactions in part because vertical transactions, standing alone, do not directly reduce the number of competitors in either the upstream or downstream markets. In addition, vertical transactions may generate significant efficiencies. Nevertheless, as discussed in greater detail below, vertical transactions also can have anticompetitive effects. In particular, a vertically integrated firm that competes both in an upstream input market and a downstream output market may have the incentive and ability to (1) foreclose rivals from inputs or customers or (2) raise the costs to rivals generally.
250
251
     72. As explained above, our determinations about how the public interest might be harmed or served by the Applicants' proposal are based on the assumption that all of the proposed transactions will be consummated and would be different if only some of the proposed transactions were consummated. Our analysis is based on the facts and evidence presented in the record, and we consider the effects on the relevant markets and market participants by comparing current competitive conditions with the competitive landscape that is likely to result following the completion of all of the proposed transactions.
 
 
     73. Below, we analyze the potential horizontal and vertical effects of the transactions on the markets for MVPD services and video programming. Where we find that the proposed transactions are likely to result in public interest harms, we also impose conditions that are narrowly targeted to address those harms.
C. Potential Horizontal Harms
          
1. MVPD Market
     74. Commenters contend that the horizontal concentration resulting from the transactions would give Comcast and Time Warner market power at the national and/or regional levels, resulting in harm to competition in the MVPD market. Commenters assert that the Applicants' horizontal reach in national and regional markets would enable them to raise cable rates to their subscribers and secure exclusive agreements with, or more favorable terms from, unaffiliated programmers. Further, commenters assert that the post-transaction increased subscribership of Comcast and Time Warner would facilitate anticompetitive practices vis--vis second cable operators, adversely affect the local franchising process, and produce other public interest harms. We consider these allegations below, and conclude that any potential harms will be adequately addressed by the conditions we impose in Section VI.D.1.
252
253
254
     75. . Several commenters/petitioners assert that the proposed transactions would lead to a reduction in head-to-head competition in areas served by Time Warner or Comcast by deterring entry by overbuilders. In support of this claim, DIRECTV cites to a study as evidence that clustering creates a "fortress" that deters competitive entry. Free Press, CFA/CU, and the Florida Communities also suggest that increased consolidation would minimize competition from overbuilders. RCN notes that the Commission has recognized that head-to-head competition benefits consumers by spurring the incumbent cable operator to reduce prices, provide additional programming at the same monthly rate, improve customer service, and add new services. RCN warns that these benefits could be lost if Time Warner and Comcast were able to use their enhanced market power to engage in behavior that harms or deters competitors in the areas they serve. In analyzing the potential effects of the transactions, Free Press examines the transfers of ownership within DMAs, which generally are
Positions of the Parties
255
256
257
258
 
 
comprised of multiple franchise areas, rather than the transfers of ownership within franchise areas. Free Press concludes that the transactions are intended to eliminate head-to-head competition between Time Warner and Comcast in the country's most desirable DMAs.
259
     76. Commenters argue that competition from DBS and other MVPDs would not constrain the anticompetitive effects arising from increased horizontal concentration. They claim that although incumbent local exchange carriers ("ILECs") have announced plans to enter the MVPD market, they have not done so. Commenters cite various obstacles to ILEC entry into the MVPD market, including the requirement to obtain numerous local franchise authority approvals, difficulties inherent in introducing a mass-market service using new technology, and the likelihood that the Applicants themselves will impede ILEC entry by withholding access to affiliated programming or entering into exclusive arrangements with unaffiliated programmers. DIRECTV states that, even without such obstacles, many of the areas in which the Applicants will operate post-transaction are not served by the ILECs that have announced plans for a video offering.
260
261
262
263
264
265
     77. Free Press and other commenters propose that the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) be used to analyze the competitive effects of the transactions. They point to the use of HHIs by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission, following the , to measure concentration in markets in order to assess the likelihood that a particular merger would increase the merging parties' market power sufficiently to allow them to raise prices profitably. These
266
Horizontal Merger Guidelines
267
 
 
commenters provide HHI calculations for regional and national markets based on the market shares of cable operators in each retail market. They claim that the size and change in regional and national HHIs calculated for the transactions are sufficient to raise competitive concerns.
268
     78. Free Press argues that even if there is no direct competition within a franchise area, consumers benefit in terms of service and price when neighboring franchise areas are served by different cable operators. Free Press reasons that cable operators are less likely to raise prices or reduce service when consumers have a readily available basis for comparison. Noting that the Commission previously has endorsed the idea that the presence of a "benchmark" competitor reduces the likelihood of anticompetitive behavior, Free Press suggests that the increases in the HHIs it calculated for each of the top 25 DMAs demonstrate that these benchmarking opportunities would be reduced as a result of the transactions. Free Press asserts that the presence of a "benchmark" competitor also benefits programmers and local advertisers.
269
270
271
272
273
     79. The Applicants disagree. They argue that the magnitude of any effects on benchmarking cannot, and should not, be gauged using HHI calculations. In addition, they assert that they face intense competition from overbuilders and DBS providers and that the major telephone companies soon will provide additional competitive pressure. They also note that the transactions would not reduce the number of competitive choices available to MVPD subscribers, because the Applicants do not currently
274
275
 
 
compete for the same subscribers. They contend that Comcast and Time Warner are not horizontal competitors between which consumers have a choice.
276
277
     80. . Given the conditions we impose in Section VI.D.1. below, we do not believe that approval of these transactions would cause a measurable negative impact on MVPD competition, including competition from overbuilders. Since there are almost no MVPD markets in which seller concentration will increase immediately as a result of the proposed transactions, traditional antitrust analysis of the effects of an immediate increase in seller market power does not apply. In particular, the commenters' use of HHI calculations is not appropriate within the context of these transactions. An important prerequisite for HHI analysis, as described in the , is that the sellers compete for customers' business in the same product and geographic markets. A merger can cause prices to rise if it reduces the number of firms competing to supply the same product in the same geographic market. The proposed transactions, however, generally involve the acquisition of customers in geographic markets not previously served by the acquiring firm. There are only a few areas where the proposed transactions would eliminate competition between the Applicants  areas where one Applicant has overbuilt another Applicant's service area  and in those areas the overbuilding Applicant has relatively few subscribers. Therefore, with a few exceptions, individual customers would see no reduction in the number of firms competing to provide them MVPD service.
Discussion
278
Horizontal Merger Guidelines
279
280
281
     81. Accordingly, we find that the HHI calculations presented by commenters do not provide a feasible means of evaluating the competitive effects of the proposed transactions on the retail distribution market. By treating cable operators that serve different, geographically distinct sets of subscribers as direct competitors, commenters have calculated HHIs for markets in which firms are not directly competing with each other for customers. Consistent with our precedent, we find that the relevant geographic unit for the analysis of competition in the retail distribution market is the household. Since the Applicants generally operate in non-overlapping territories and do not compete with each other in the distribution markets they serve, the proposed transactions would not reduce the number of competitive alternatives available to the vast majority of households. The transactions therefore would not increase
282
283
 
 
market concentration in the relevant geographic market for the retail distribution of cable services. Economic theory indicates that an acquiring firm will not be better able to raise prices if, as is the case here, consumers did not, pre-transaction, have a greater ability to choose an alternative supplier than they would post-transaction. Thus, the mere calculation of HHIs for a perceived "market" is insufficient to demonstrate harm resulting from a horizontal merger.
284
285
     82. Similarly, we conclude that Free Press' examination of competition at the DMA level is misguided. Free Press argues that the transactions would result in an absence of head-to-head competition between Time Warner and Comcast in 22 of the top 40 DMAs, and in 119 of the 210 Nielsen DMAs. In DMAs where both Time Warner and Comcast currently operate, however, they generally do not compete directly for subscribers. Their systems usually operate in adjacent franchise areas within a DMA, and consumers do not have the ability to choose between them. Accordingly, the elimination of Time Warner's or Comcast's presence in a particular DMA does not likely indicate the loss of head-to-head competition.
286
287
     83. We do, however, agree with Free Press that adjacent service areas can provide a useful benchmark for consumers to compare price and service. As CWA/IBEW point out, the Los Angeles area is an example where all three Applicants currently operate in adjacent franchise areas. Following the transactions, only one of the Applicants, Time Warner, will operate in that metropolitan area. We recognized in the that regulatory efficacy is enhanced when there are a "sufficient number of independent sources of observation available for comparison." We believe that not only regulators, but also consumers, can benefit from the ability to observe how different cable operators are serving proximate areas. Although benchmarking opportunities may be diminished in certain areas as a result of these transactions, we are unable, based on the record, to quantify any effects on competition that may occur. In the balancing of potential public interest harms against potential public interest benefits, we will consider the potential harms that may arise due to diminished benchmarking opportunities. In addition, our analysis of the data supplied by the Applicants and other parties indicates that potential harms to competition among MVPDs are likely to arise in some markets. As explained below, we are adopting remedial conditions to mitigate those harms. Because the conditions will mitigate potential harms to MVPD competition, we expect they also will diminish any potential loss of benchmarking opportunities.
288
SBC-Ameritech Order
289
290
291
 
 
     84. . Several parties assert that approval of the transactions would lead to an increase in cable rates. CFA/CU state that GAO found that the rates charged by MSO systems are 5.4% above the rates of cable systems that are not owned by an MSO. CFA/CU and DIRECTV reference Commission reports that conclude that, not only do MSO systems charge more than systems that are not owned by an MSO, but clustering compounds this differential. They note that the Commission has found that an MSO system that is part of a regional cluster is likely to raise its already higher prices an additional two to three percent. Similarly, TAC argues that regional concentration results in higher prices to consumers, given an MVPD's enhanced ability to obstruct competition from overbuilders. CFA/CU and CWA/IBEW rely on HHI analyses to contend that Comcast's and Time Warner's increased market concentration would enable them to raise cable prices above competitive levels.
Positions of the Parties
292
293
294
295
296
297
 
 
     85. The Applicants reject claims that the transactions would lead to unjustified increases in cable prices. They cite competitive pressures from other MVPDs and emerging competition from telephone companies as a restraint on cable prices.
298
299
     86. . We find the evidence regarding potential increases in cable rates to be insufficient to withhold approval of these particular transactions. Although CFA/CU state that cable systems that are part of a large MSO charge prices that are 5.4% higher than those that are not, the GAO study that CFA/CU cite already considered Adelphia to be a large MSO. Therefore, the study does not support CFA/CU's contention. Nor are we persuaded by CFA/CU's or CWA/IBEW's use of HHI analyses to predict that cable rates will increase as a result of these transactions. As explained above, these HHI calculations are not appropriate measures of concentration because they include firms that are not directly competing with each other in the same market. Moreover, the conditions we impose below with respect to access to RSNs will enhance competition among MVPDs in the affected markets.
Discussion
300
301
302
303
     87. . MIC, a private cable operator in Florida, contends that approval of the transactions would reduce competitive alternatives and embolden Comcast to engage in anticompetitive practices. MIC alleges that expansion of its service in Collier County, Florida has been prevented by Comcast's predatory pricing schemes and exclusive long-term contracts with gated and condominium communities, which contain clauses for specific easements in conduits and control over cable inside wiring. MIC believes that Comcast's proposed acquisition of Time Warner's facilities in Collier County and Lee County would severely harm competition for bulk and condominium contracts in those counties because the two cable operators currently compete directly against each other for those contracts. MIC urges the Commission to deny the transfer of Time Warner's systems to Comcast in Collier and Lee Counties, or at a minimum, to order Comcast to cease its anticompetitive practices against MIC and to waive its exclusive agreements with gated and condominium communities. MIC currently has a complaint pending against Comcast in federal district court.
Positions of the Parties
304
305
306
307
308
 
 
     88. Similarly, RCN alleges that Comcast employs predatory pricing practices by offering deep discounts either to inhibit RCN's planned entry into a market or to lure RCN customers to Comcast. RCN claims that Comcast specifically targets RCN customers and does not offer the same discounts to other customers. RCN argues that Comcast's offers far exceed ordinary promotional discounts, and thus they constitute unfair anticompetitive tactics. RCN asserts that consumers are harmed to the extent that predatory prices drive competitors out of the market and to the extent that full-paying customers are subsidizing the predatory discounts. RCN asks that any Commission approval of the transactions be conditioned upon, among other things, uniform subscriber pricing throughout franchise areas.
309
310
311
312
313
     89. The Applicants respond that this proceeding is not the proper forum in which to address MIC's and RCN's claims. The Applicants state that MIC's allegations arise under provisions of Florida's antitrust laws and that they will be adjudicated in a Florida court of competent jurisdiction. The Applicants dispute the merits of MIC's pending complaint and argue that even if the claims were valid, MIC fails to show how its allegations relate to the issues in this proceeding. The Applicants contend that the Commission has declined to regulate exclusive MVPD agreements with owners of multiple dwelling units ("MDUs") and advise that the correct procedure for asserting claims of predatory pricing is to file a complaint with the Commission. They add that, in any event, the transactions would not increase the likelihood of such predatory practices. In addition, the Applicants claim that the promotional offers RCN cites are irrelevant because they pertained to unregulated services. The Applicants state that promotional discounts are appropriate responses to the competition cable companies face from overbuilders and DBS providers. The Applicants deny that they offer promotional discounts only to those areas served by overbuilders. They argue that RCN's assertions do not meet the stringent
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
 
 
requirements for establishing a legitimate predatory pricing claim, which the Supreme Court has noted are a rarity.
322
     90. . We decline to deny the transfers as proposed or to impose the requested conditions related to these alleged anticompetitive practices. First, the Applicants correctly note that the Commission previously decided not to prohibit long-term, exclusive agreements with MDU owners. Second, although predatory pricing schemes are matters of serious concern, the allegations are not properly addressed in the context of these transactions. The Commission's uniform rate provisions do not prevent cable operators from making distinctions among reasonable categories of service and customers when providing discounts within a franchise area. Targeted pricing, however, can signal the anticompetitive use of market power by a dominant firm. As the Commission stated in the , "although targeted pricing between and among established competitors of relatively equal market power may be procompetitive, targeted pricing discounts by an established incumbent with dominant market power may be used to eliminate nascent competitors and stifle competitive entry." We do not believe, however, that there is sufficient evidence for us to conclude that approval of these transactions would increase the Applicants' incentive or ability to resort to such tactics, because these transactions generally would not increase the market power of an incumbent (or the incumbent's successor in the case of a swap) within a franchise area. In any event, parties alleging specific claims of anticompetitive pricing schemes may follow the Commission's procedures for filing a complaint or seek redress in court.
Discussion
323
324
Comcast-AT&T Order
325
326
     91. Although MIC alleges that head-to-head competition would be diminished because Comcast and Time Warner compete directly against each other in Collier and Lee Counties for contracts to serve MDUs, Comcast avers that other entities can serve MDUs in those markets. MIC's complaint seems to be that long-term exclusive contracts between Comcast and MDU owners in these counties are a barrier to entry by other providers, such as MIC. This complaint does not constitute a transaction specific concern. Whether or not Comcast and Time Warner both continue to serve these counties, MIC would face the prospect of having to compete for bulk accounts that may be subject to long-term exclusive agreements. Moreover, to the extent MIC's complaint relates to the elimination of a potential provider of service to MDUs, it is not clear from the record that Comcast and Time Warner compete with each other to a meaningful extent today for these accounts. Comcast avers that it and Time Warner serve separate geographic areas within the counties, and the two cable providers have not overbuilt cable systems reaching the same homes in either county. MIC disputes that view and states that Time Warner is currently serving two large housing developments within Comcast's territory in Collier County. MIC notes that because the developments are near "a major route of current and potential development," Time Warner "could" become a significant competitor to Comcast in Collier County as development continues along that route "in the years ahead." We conclude that the potential harm to competition in this one
327
328
329
330
 
 
county based on two instances of "overbuilding" to MDUs is not sufficient to create a material risk of public interest harm.
     92. . NATOA contends that approval of the transactions would undermine the ability of local franchising authorities ("LFAs") to serve the interests of their residents, frustrating congressional intent. NATOA argues that increased national and regional concentration would make it difficult for LFAs to enforce reasonable rates and quality customer service. Both NATOA and the Florida Communities aver that increased consolidation over the past several years has put LFAs in an unequal bargaining position with respect to cable operators, which increasingly ignore local community interests and needs. They warn that the transactions would shift the balance of power in franchising negotiations even further in favor of Comcast and Time Warner. More specifically, NATOA argues that the expanding regional dominance of Comcast and Time Warner would diminish the effectiveness of LFAs' primary tool of enforcement  denial of a franchise renewal.
Positions of the Parties
331
332
333
334
335
     93. NATOA contends that even if Comcast and Time Warner agree to honor Adelphia's commitments to LFAs, they may not fulfill them. NATOA provides several examples of Comcast's alleged failures to comply with the terms of various franchise agreements, including franchise agreements it assumed as a result of its merger with AT&T. In addition, NATOA claims that the Applicants, particularly Comcast, have a history of resisting LFAs' demands for public, educational and governmental ("PEG") channels.
336
337
338
     94. NATOA argues that if the Commission approves the transactions, it must impose conditions that preserve the ability of LFAs to enforce franchise agreements and protect community interests. NATOA requests that the Commission require that Time Warner and Comcast comply with any franchise terms previously agreed to by Adelphia. NATOA also urges the Commission to require that Time Warner and Comcast complete any build-out schedules that may be agreed to as part of the transfer
.339
340
 
 
negotiations with an LFA. NATOA believes that failure to adhere to any conditions required under the terms of an existing franchise agreement, an LFA's transfer approval, or the Commission's approval should be actionable immediately in federal court, and evidence of failure to comply with the Commission's conditions should be deemed an admission. NATOA also asks the Commission to condition approval on full and complete compliance with the obligations contained in the Communications Act and the Commission's rules regarding LFAs' rights to review transfer applications.
341
342
343
     95. . It would be inefficient and impractical for the Commission to referee all the disputes that may arise from the numerous LFA reviews required by these transactions, including disputes relating to pre-existing franchise conditions arising from previous transfers. Our approval of the transactions does not affect the rights of LFAs to negotiate desired terms and conditions in their transfer approvals. Accordingly, we will not impose the conditions NATOA seeks.
Discussion
344
     96. We acknowledge that it may be more difficult for an LFA that denies a franchise renewal to find a replacement provider if the LFA's franchise area is in the midst of a regional cluster. Nevertheless, we cannot conclude that preserving or enhancing the attractiveness of individual franchise areas to other providers that one day may seek to replace the incumbent is a valid basis for the Commission to withhold or condition approval of the Applications. The conditions we impose regarding access to RSNs, however, should ameliorate any difficulties LFAs may encounter in attracting providers that are willing and able to replace the incumbent should the LFA deny a franchise renewal.
          
2. Video Programming Market
     97. The proposed transactions also involve competing purchasers in the upstream market for programming supply. Even though the firms are selling the programming to different retail customers, they are attempting to purchase it from the same suppliers. Thus, the proposed transactions would reduce the number of purchasers of programming and would increase Comcast's and Time Warner's market shares in certain programming markets, which could increase Applicants' market power in those markets. Economic theory generally suggests that the exercise of market power causes harm through the reduction of output purchased by the firm with market power.
345
346
 
 
     98. Several parties are concerned that the transactions would enable Comcast and Time Warner to exercise undue buying power in the video programming market. According to these commenters, the horizontal reach of these entities nationally and in certain regions would establish them as gatekeepers that could "make or break" a national or regional programming network. Commenters urge the Commission to adopt conditions to ensure that the transactions do not impede the flow of video programming to consumers.
     99. Below, we discuss the parties' positions and analyze whether the proposed transactions would confer on Comcast or Time Warner a degree of market power that could result in public interest harms with respect to video programming in national and regional markets. More specifically, and consistent with the objectives of section 613(f) of the Communications Act, we consider whether the transactions are likely to unfairly impede the flow of programming to consumers by reducing the supply of video programming available for distribution. We conclude that adoption of a condition permitting the arbitration of disputes relating to commercial leased access will mitigate any potential public interest harms deriving from increased horizontal concentration resulting from the transactions. Moreover, as detailed in Sections VIII and IX below, we find that the transactions are likely to speed the deployment of local telephone service and advanced video programming offerings, including local VOD, to Adelphia's subscribers and expedite the resolution of Adelphia's pending bankruptcy proceeding and thereby minimize the costs borne by Adelphia and its stakeholders as a result of that process. Accordingly, approval of the transactions, as conditioned, is consistent with the congressional objective set forth in section 613(f) that the Commission should "account for any efficiencies and other benefits that might be gained through increased ownership or control" when setting limits on cable system ownership.
347
348
     100. . Several commenters argue that the proposed transactions would result in public interest harms to the market for nationally distributed programming. They assert that Comcast's and Time Warner's increased subscriber reach would allow them, either unilaterally or in concert with each other, to determine which programmers survive in the video programming marketplace. They argue that the proposed transactions would limit programming diversity and would result in higher prices charged to consumers. They further argue that Comcast's and Time Warner's increased regional concentration, particularly in the top television markets, would magnify the alleged anticompetitive impact of their national reach.
Positions of the Parties
349
350
351
352
 
 
     101. Commenters note that the transactions would result in Comcast and Time Warner controlling programmers' access to a combined total of almost half of all MVPD subscribers. They assert that in order to generate the advertising revenue necessary for success, a national network must reach between 40 and 60 million subscribers. TAC asserts that 20 million subscribers represent a minimum distribution threshold below which Nielsen Media Research cannot provide reliable ratings. TAC claims that only 92 national, non-premium networks have reached 20 million subscribers, that 80 of them are affiliated with an MVPD or broadcast network, and that 70 are owned by one of the "big six" media companies (., Disney, Viacom, NBC Universal, News Corp., Time Warner and Comcast). TAC also states that of the 92 cable networks that have achieved 20 million subscribers, 90 are carried by both Comcast and Time Warner. TAC also asserts that new advertiser-supported networks must present to investors a credible path to 50 million subscribers within five to seven years in order to raise enough capital to enter the market. TAC contends that, because only 49.2 million MVPD subscribers would be available to new networks that are denied carriage by Comcast and Time Warner post-transaction, it would be impossible for new networks to enter the market without carriage by at least one of these firms.
353
354
355
356
i.e
357
358
     102. TAC and Free Press assert that regional concentration resulting from the transactions, particularly in the top 25 DMAs, which include the financial, entertainment, and political capitals
359
360
361
 
 
of the country, would magnify the harmful impact of national concentration. According to TAC, potential harms arising from control over these markets cannot be mitigated by competition from DBS, because with its subscriber base spread over the country, DBS cannot discipline such "pocket monopolies." TAC argues that viewers in the top geographic markets are the most attractive to advertisers because they contain the most viewers, the most affluent viewers, the trend-setting viewers, and a major press presence. Free Press also argues that carriage of a network by one MSO within a region creates pressure on other MSOs within that region to provide carriage, but networks could lose the ability to gain exposure as a result of the transactions because the number of DMAs with multiple MSOs would be reduced.
362
363
364
365
     103. TAC also claims that Comcast and Time Warner generally make the same carriage decisions regarding particular networks and that because carriage by both is required for a nationwide network's long-term viability, other MVPDs are reluctant to carry a network that is not already carried by Comcast and Time Warner. BTNC's arguments are similar to TAC's. BTNC asserts that Comcast and Time Warner are not likely to provide widespread distribution of unaffiliated networks, and absent distribution agreements with Comcast or Time Warner, investors are not likely to provide financing, and smaller MVPDs are not likely to provide carriage, to minority owned, independent networks. In support of its allegations, TAC submits data showing that no network that failed to gain carriage with at least Comcast or Time Warner has succeeded in achieving the subscriber thresholds required for survival. TAC claims that of the networks it examined, only two networks  the NFL Network and Inspiration Network  have surpassed the 20 million subscriber threshold without carriage by Comcast and Time Warner; that "no network appears to have reached 20 million homes, with one of Time Warner or Comcast, but without Adelphia"; and that all of the networks it examined that are distributed to 25 million or more households are carried by both Comcast and Time Warner.
366
367
368
369
     104. IBC raises concerns regarding nationally distributed ethnic programming. IBC estimates that Comcast has approximately two million cable subscribers who are Hispanic and argues that Comcast has become a critical gatekeeper for any new Hispanic programming content. According to IBC, Comcast provides programming content to its U.S. Hispanic subscribers by "backhauling" existing networks from Latin America. As a result, IBC argues, U.S. producers of Hispanic programming content have minimal access to Comcast's Hispanic audiences.
370
371
372
     105. TAC and other commenters urge the Commission to impose conditions on the approval of the transactions in order to remedy or reduce the alleged potential harms. They request mandatory
 
 
arbitration between Comcast/Time Warner and independent programmers to ensure that carriage decisions are reasonable and ask the Commission to establish leased access rates that allow independent programmers to gain distribution. TAC further proposes that 50% of any new networks added by either Comcast or Time Warner post-transaction be independent of affiliation with either the Applicants or broadcasters; that a two-stage arbitration process be instituted for carriage refusals involving allegations of discrimination; and that, alternatively, the Commission institute a "fast-track" 90-day complaint resolution process. BTNC requests that the Commission require Comcast and Time Warner to provide analog distribution to BTNC in markets where African Americans represent 20% or more of the population and digital carriage in markets where African Americans represent between 5% and 20% of the population.
373
374
375
     106. CWA/IBEW contend that the Commission should complete its cable horizontal ownership review before acting on the transfer applications. They assert that without determining the ownership limits necessary to protect consumers from anticompetitive behavior and to promote media diversity, the Commission cannot determine whether the instant transactions would result in anticompetitive harm.
376
377
     107. Applicants reject that contention, asserting that the 30% cable horizontal ownership limit has been invalidated and that, in any case, neither Time Warner nor Comcast would exceed the limit following consummation of the transactions. Applicants maintain that because the proposed transactions would not result in either Comcast or Time Warner serving more than 30% of U.S. MVPD subscribers, the transactions would have only pro-competitive effects. Additionally, Applicants highlight the growth of competition in the downstream MVPD market and the court's remand of the Commission's horizontal and vertical ownership rules, suggesting that even levels of horizontal concentration well above 30% would not pose a threat to unaffiliated programmers. Applicants assert that there is no uniform number of households to which cable networks must secure carriage in order to be viable, because networks have different cost structures, different ways of distributing their content, and different ways of recovering their costs. Applicants dispute TAC's assertion that Time Warner and
378
379
380
381
 
 
Comcast can act individually to prevent an independent network from reaching viability. They state that post-transaction, there would be almost 66 million MVPD households that Comcast does not serve and more than 75 million that Time Warner does not serve, and thus neither could properly be blamed for TAC's inability to obtain carriage commitments. Applicants further dispute TAC's assertions that the Applicants' post-transaction subscribership in the top DMAs will result in harms. Regarding TAC's suggestion that there is a "high correlation" between the carriage decisions of Comcast and Time Warner, the Applicants assert that there can be no anticompetitive behavior inferred from two experienced cable operators declining carriage of an unproven network.
382
383
384
385
     108. . As Applicants have correctly noted, both firms will remain below the Commission's 30% horizontal ownership limit. Moreover, Comcast will not control a larger share of the market than it did at the time we approved the transaction. Indeed, its national subscriber reach will increase by less than 1% as a result of the transactions.
Discussion
386
Comcast-AT&T
387
388
     109. To address the allegations of potential public interest harm, we adopt a condition that will permit the use of commercial arbitration to resolve disputes about commercial leased access. Pursuant to this condition, programmers seeking to use commercial leased access may submit disputes about the terms of access to an arbitrator for resolution. The arbitrator will be directed to settle disputes about pricing in accordance with the formula set forth in the Commission's commercial leased access rules. The arbitration condition shall remain in effect for six years from adoption date of this Order. Moreover, we find that the remedial conditions we impose regarding program access, discussed below, will further mitigate any potential harms affecting programming supply.
389
390
     110. We do not agree with CWA's assertion that the Commission must complete the cable ownership rulemaking before addressing the issues in this adjudicatory proceeding. The proposed transactions will result in a increase in Comcast's national subscriber reach, which will remain below 30%, and Time Warner will serve fewer than 18% of MVPD subscribers post-transaction, well
de minimis
 
 
below the Commission's 30% limit. In addition, Comcast and Time Warner will be required to abide by any ownership limits the Commission may adopt in its pending rulemaking proceeding and have pledged to do so. Finally, we find in Sections VIII and IX below that the transactions would result in significant public interest benefits, in particular the accelerated deployment of competitive, facilities-based local telephone service to Adelphia's subscribers and the timely resolution of Adelphia's bankruptcy proceeding. The realization of these benefits would be delayed substantially were we to defer consideration of the Applications until the Commission concludes its pending rulemaking proceeding.
391
392
     111. . CWA/IBEW contend that clustering gives cable operators control of entire metropolitan media markets, making the clustered MSOs "virtually indispensable to local and regional programmers seeking distribution." They claim that this increases the regional market power of cable operators, allowing them to obtain steep discounts from programmers for their content. CWA/IBEW note that one regional sports network (RSN) that was not vertically integrated with cable operators ceased operation because it was unable to obtain distribution over the larger MVPDs in its region. Victory Sports One (VSO), a network launched by owners of the Minnesota Twins Major League Baseball team in October 2003, ceased operation in May 2004. Similarly, BTNC relates that Florida's News Channel (FNC) was "put out of business" by Comcast when FNC refused to renegotiate its multi-year affiliation agreement with Comcast. BTNC also claims that Time Warner refused to carry FNC on its Florida cable systems after FNC declined to grant Time Warner a 50% ownership interest in FNC.
Positions of the Parties
393
394
395
     112. TCR Sports Broadcasting Holding, LLP ("TCR") d/b/a Mid-Atlantic Sports Network, Inc. ("MASN") asserts that the transactions would dramatically increase Comcast's share of MVPD households in the Washington and Baltimore DMAs, giving Comcast a "stranglehold" on the provision of MVPD services in the key areas that TCR has been assigned for the telecasting of Washington Nationals and Baltimore Orioles baseball games. TCR is an RSN that holds the underlying rights to produce and exhibit Washington Nationals and Baltimore Orioles baseball games. TCR claims that post-transaction, Comcast would pass 54% of all homes in the Washington DMA and 76% of all homes in the Baltimore DMA. TCR alleges that Comcast's share of MVPD subscribers in the Washington DMA would increase from 42% to 53% and its share of MVPD subscribers in the Baltimore DMA would increase from 76% to 80%. After the transactions, TCR asserts, Comcast would be able to exercise enormous market power as a monopoly buyer of video programming content in the region. To remedy potential harms, TCR proposes that the Commission condition approval of the transactions, requiring Comcast to divest its interest in its RSN, CSN, and to carry TCR on "just and reasonable terms." In the alternative, TCR urges the Commission to prohibit Comcast from requiring a financial interest in any video programming
396
397
398
 
 
service as a condition of carriage and from engaging in any other discrimination against unaffiliated programmers.
399
     113. In their reply, Applicants assert that Comcast's transaction-related increase in concentration would be "quite modest" in the footprints of RSNs it controls. Moreover, Applicants assert that the pending cable ownership proceeding is the appropriate place to consider any concerns about regional concentration. Applicants dismiss TCR's proposed conditions, concluding that they merely restate existing program carriage rules, are not within the Commission's power, or should be considered, if at all, in connection with the program carriage complaint filed by TCR for that purpose.
400
401
402
     114. . We find that there is a potential that Comcast's or Time Warner's market power could increase the price consumers will have to pay for programming, as TCR suggests, if an unaffiliated network is denied carriage and exits the market as a result, and if Comcast or Time Warner then buys the distribution rights, creates its own network, and withholds the programming from competitors, reducing retail competition. We address this concern below in Section VI.D.3.b. In the rulemaking context, the Commission has balanced the benefits of clustering  such as the development of regional programming, upgraded cable infrastructure, and improved customer service  with the likelihood of anticompetitive harm. A further notice of proposed rulemaking on the cable ownership rules is pending. That proceeding may provide an appropriate vehicle to address any general concerns about the effect of any industry trend toward increased clustering and assess the potential benefits and harms of such regional concentration. In particular, the Commission can re-examine in that proceeding the extent to which clustering may facilitate the creation of regional programming, increase the potential for foreclosure of unaffiliated regional programmers, or produce any other public interest benefits or harms. As noted above, Comcast and Time Warner will be subject to any revised limits the Commission may adopt in that proceeding and have pledged to do so. In addition, we note that the commercial
Discussion
403
404
405
406
407
 
 
leased access condition we adopt herein will address concerns regarding the transactions' effect on the carriage of unaffiliated programming, including regional programming.
     
D. Potential Vertical Harms
     115. In this Section, we consider whether the Applicants would be more likely to engage in anticompetitive strategies with respect to the distribution of video programming as a result of the transactions. Both Comcast and Time Warner own cable systems, as well as popular national and regional programming networks. Adelphia, by contrast, owns only cable systems and does not own any programming networks. The transactions therefore would vertically integrate Comcast's and Time Warner's upstream programming assets with Adelphia's downstream cable systems. The acquisitions would expand the acquiring firms' subscriber reach in particular downstream markets by combining Adelphia's cable systems with their own. Time Warner's and Comcast's exchange of cable systems will further concentrate each firm's market share in particular regions. The question before us is whether the increased subscriber reach and new vertical integration established as a result of the transactions would increase the likelihood of various forms of vertical foreclosure and anticompetitive pricing, harming competition in the MVPD and programming supply markets and, ultimately, the public interest.
408
     116. With respect to concerns about MVPDs' access to programming, we find that the transactions may increase the likelihood of harm in markets in which Comcast or Time Warner now hold, or may in the future hold, an ownership interest in RSNs, which ultimately could increase retail prices for consumers and limit consumer MVPD choice. We impose remedial conditions to mitigate these potential harms. We find such harms are not likely to arise with respect to affiliated national or non-sports regional programming, or unaffiliated programming. With respect to concerns relating to program carriage, we find that the transactions are likely to increase the incentive and ability of Comcast and Time Warner to deny carriage to RSNs that are not affiliated with them. We therefore adopt a further condition to mitigate these potential harms.
          
1. Access to Affiliated Programming
     117. The potential for a vertically integrated firm, as the result of a transaction, to foreclose downstream competitors from important inputs (., programming) is the subject of substantial economic literature. Theoretically, where a firm that has market power in an input market acquires a firm in the downstream output market, the acquisition may increase the incentive and ability of the integrated firm to raise rivals' costs either by raising the price at which it sells the input to downstream competitors or by withholding supply of the input from competitors. By doing so, the integrated firm may be able to harm its rivals' competitive positions, enabling it to raise prices and increase its market share in the downstream market, thereby increasing its profits while retaining lower prices for itself or for firms with which it does not compete.
Economic Background.
e.g
409
     118. One way by which vertically integrated firms can raise their rivals' costs is to charge higher programming prices to competing MVPDs than to their affiliated MVPDs. However, the Commission's program access rules prohibit price discrimination by programming networks that are vertically integrated with a cable operator unless the price discrimination is based on market conditions.
410
 
 
     119. Alternatively, a vertically integrated firm could disadvantage its downstream competitors by raising the price of an input to all downstream firms (including itself) to a level greater than that which would be charged by a non-vertically integrated supplier of the input. Such nondiscriminatory pricing is not prohibited by the Commission's program access rules. A vertically integrated cable operator might employ such a strategy to raise its rivals' costs. Because they would have to pay more for the programming, MVPD competitors would likely respond either by raising their prices to subscribers, not purchasing the programming, or reducing marketing activities. The vertically integrated MVPD could then enjoy a competitive advantage, because the higher price for the programming that it would pay would be an internal transfer that it could disregard when it sets its own prices. By forcing its competitors either to pay more for the programming and increase their retail rates, or forgo purchasing the programming, the vertically integrated MVPD could raise its prices to some extent without losing subscribers. The profitability of a uniform price increase would depend on the market share of the MVPD within the distribution footprint of the affiliated programming network.
411
     120. A vertically integrated firm could also attempt to disadvantage its rivals by engaging in a foreclosure strategy, , by withholding a critical input from them. The economic literature suggests that an integrated firm will engage in permanent foreclosure only if the increased profits it earns in the downstream market (., the MVPD market) as the result of foreclosure exceed the losses it incurs from reduced sales of the input in the upstream market (., the programming market). The Commission's program access rules generally prohibit exclusive dealing by vertically integrated programming networks, but terrestrially delivered programming is not covered by the rules. Theoretically, cable operators could move an affiliated network onto terrestrial delivery platforms and then withhold it from rival MVPDs. Because cable operators serve discrete franchise areas and generally do not compete against each other within franchise areas, a cable operator could narrowly target a foreclosure strategy to harm only its rivals by crafting exclusive distribution agreements that permit adjacent, non-rival cable operators to carry the affiliated programming and that exclude the programming only from rival firms competing in the cable operator's service areas.
i.e.
e.g
e.g
412
413
     121. If an integrated firm calculates that permanent foreclosure would be unprofitable, or if such foreclosure is prohibited by our rules, it nevertheless might find it profitable to engage in temporary foreclosure in certain markets. For temporary foreclosure to be profitable in the context of MVPDs' access to programming, there must be a significant number of subscribers who switch MVPDs to obtain the integrated firm's programming and do not immediately switch back to the competitor's product once the foreclosure has ended. In markets exhibiting consumer inertia, temporary foreclosure may be profitable even where permanent foreclosure is not. The profitability of this strategy in the MVPD context derives not only from subscriber gains, but also from the potential to extract higher prices in the long term from MVPD competitors. Specifically, by temporarily foreclosing supply of the programming to an MVPD competitor or by threatening to engage in temporary foreclosure, the integrated firm may improve its bargaining position so as to be able to extract a higher price from the MVPD competitor than
414
 
 
it could have negotiated if it were a non-integrated programming supplier. In order for a vertically integrated firm successfully to employ temporary foreclosure or the threat of temporary foreclosure as a strategy to increase its bargaining position, there must be a credible risk that subscribers would switch MVPDs to obtain the programming for a long enough period to make the strategy profitable.
     122. As discussed in greater detail below, a number of commenters contend that the transactions would increase the likelihood that Comcast and/or Time Warner would seek to disadvantage their MVPD rivals by increasing the costs of affiliated regional sports programming, either in a discriminatory fashion or uniformly with respect to all buyers, or by permanently or temporarily withholding desirable programming from them. They urge the Commission to deny or condition its approval of the Applications.
Introduction.
415
416
     123. We find that the transactions would enable Comcast and Time Warner to raise the price of access to RSNs by imposing uniform price increases applicable to all MVPDs, including their own systems, by engaging in so-called "stealth discrimination," or by permanently or temporarily withholding programming. As commenters contend, such strategies are likely to result in increased retail rates and fewer choices for consumers seeking competitive alternatives to Comcast and Time Warner. Accordingly, to mitigate the potential public interest harms, we adopt remedial conditions. Below we discuss our analytical approach and our findings regarding each theory of harm.
417
     124. At the outset, we note that RSNs are often considered "must-have" programming. As the Commission observed in the "the basis for the lack of adequate substitutes for regional sports programming lies in the unique nature of its core component: RSNs typically purchase exclusive rights to show sporting events, and sports fans believe that there is no good substitute for watching their local and/or favorite team play an important game." Hence, an MVPD's ability to gain access to RSNs and the price and other terms of conditions of access can be important factors in its ability to compete with rivals. Applicants acknowledge that an MVPD that
Analytical Approach.
418
News Corp.-Hughes Order,
419
 
 
================================================================================
drops local sports programming risks subscriber defections and that MVPDs "will drive hard bargains to buy, acquire, defend or exploit regional sports programming rights."
420
     125. Further, we conclude, as we did in the and transactions, that for the analysis of potential harms deriving from access to regional programming, the relevant geographic market is regional. For RSNs, the relevant unit of analysis encompasses the area where particular highly valued sports programming is available to consumers. Sports programming generally is available only to consumers located within the authorized viewing zone for a team's programming. The relevant market does not necessarily encompass the entire RSN footprint, because many RSNs are distributed to consumers in more than one sports team's territories, and RSNs often are distributed to consumers located outside a particular team's authorized viewing zones. The record contains a limited amount of information on the viewing zones of individual sports teams. Because individual DMAs usually are entirely encompassed within the authorized viewing zone for a team's games and contain those fans that value its programming most highly, we find it reasonable to define the relevant geographic market for the analysis of harms concerning access to RSNs as any DMA that is home to a sports team.
Comcast-AT&T
News Corp.-Hughes
421
422
423
424
     126. We reject DIRECTV's contention that the appropriate unit of analysis here should be an entire RSN footprint. Although we chose the RSN footprint as the geographic market in the , we nonetheless analyzed data from each MVPD's smaller, individual service areas within the RSN footprint because as noted by DIRECTV, cable operators typically have a smaller service area than the entire footprint of an RSN. As noted above, an RSN may be distributed to areas outside
425
News Corp.-Hughes Order
426
 
 
the authorized viewing area of a particular sports team carried by that network, such that some viewers within the RSN footprint would not receive the same programming from the RSN that other viewers receive. Thus, by analyzing data from each MVPD's smaller, individual service areas within the RSN footprint, we were able to assess the transaction's impact in areas where all viewers are receiving similar RSN programming. Although DIRECTV's (and EchoStar's) service areas are large enough to provide service throughout the entire RSN footprint, we believe we must narrow the unit of analysis here to the DMA in order to assess more accurately the impact of the transactions. Using the DMA allows us here, as we did in to examine the geographic area in which consumers are likely to place a similar value on the RSN programming at issue and to examine the transactions' impact in areas where viewers are likely to receive the same RSN programming. In addition, we note that because Applicants may use a zone pricing system for their RSNs, it would be possible for the Applicants to engage in a uniform price increase strategy that is limited to one of the zones of the RSN footprint. And, since the inner zone, which is the area where the highly valued sports programming is likely to be shown, contains the consumers that value the programming most highly, it is also the area where a uniform price increase is most likely to be profitable. We therefore believe that DMAs that are home to a professional sports team, which plays in either Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Football League, or the National Hockey League, carried on the RSN are a reasonable approximation of the inner pricing zone of the RSN.
427
News Corp.-Hughes,
428
     127. Our analysis extends beyond those markets where the Applicants currently own RSNs. As DIRECTV has noted, the Applicants' expanded regional clusters may provide them with an increased incentive and ability to launch their own RSNs in those areas. Thus, in assessing the areas likely to see the most significant impact of the transactions, we examine all DMAs that are home to professional sports teams where Comcast or Time Warner would own cable systems post-transaction. There appear to be
429
430
 
 
opportunities for new RSNs to emerge in some markets even though, as Applicants have stated, many sports teams have long-term contractual commitments with existing RSNs. For example, in Los Angeles, it appears that the L.A. Clippers' and Anaheim Mighty Ducks' contracts with Fox SportsNet West and Fox SportsNet West 2 could expire as early as 2007 or 2008. In addition, some sports teams may have the option of terminating their existing agreements (subject to certain penalties) to seek more lucrative deals. In the alternative, MVPDs may obtain valuable sports rights simply by acquiring an RSN.
431
432
433
434
     128. To the extent that Applicants believe that their acquisition of cable systems in markets where they do not already own an RSN is unrelated to the incentive or ability to gain sports distribution rights in those markets, we disagree. It is the combination of RSN ownership and MVPD market share
435
 
 
that makes anticompetitive strategies possible. Where Comcast's and Time Warner's cable systems, post-transaction, reach a sufficient percentage of any DMA that is home to a sports team, the potential gains from these strategies could be sufficient to justify the costs of employing them, including the cost to acquire the sports programming rights.
     129. Having established the strategic importance of RSN programming to MVPDs and the appropriate geographic framework for the evaluation of potential public interest harms, we now turn to our assessment of claims regarding specific anticompetitive strategies. We consider the likelihood of harms deriving from a strategy to uniformly increase the rates paid by all MVPDs, to engage in stealth discrimination, and to permanently and temporarily foreclose RSN programming.
     130. DIRECTV alleges that the transactions would enable Comcast and Time Warner to harm competing MVPDs by increasing the rates for affiliated RSNs uniformly to all MVPDs, including themselves. DIRECTV states that even modest increases in Comcast's or Time Warner's market share could make a uniform price increase strategy profitable and thereby harm competition. According to DIRECTV, as a cable operator's footprint expands, it may claim more of the DBS subscribers who switch MVPDs in order to have access to RSN programming. At the same time, a DBS provider that refuses to accept a price increase from an integrated cable operator/RSN owner stands to lose more and more subscribers as that cable operator's footprint expands. DIRECTV contends that, under such circumstances, the DBS provider may lose less by accepting a price increase than it would by refusing to carry the RSN programming at a higher price, asserting that the market share of DBS firms is significantly lower in areas, such as Philadelphia, where they do not have access to an RSN. DIRECTV alleges that Comcast has in the past imposed a uniform price increase for CSN Chicago, which Comcast created after it acquired AT&T Broadband's cable system in Chicago. DIRECTV contends that Comcast charges almost twice as much as the previous RSN that sold the same programming. DIRECTV also contends that Time Warner and Comcast intend to make programming on SportsNet New York the "nation's most expensive RSN programming" on a per subscriber basis. Moreover, DIRECTV contends that the transactions would increase the incentive to increase prices uniformly, because Comcast is also a co-owner of SportsNet New York and would acquire an additional 10% of television households in that RSN's footprint.
Positions of the Parties: Uniform Price Increase.
436
437
438
439
440
 
 
     131. Applicants assert that DIRECTV has not provided evidence that the transactions would create sufficient incentives to raise prices uniformly. According to the Applicants, this strategy could cause non-competing MVPDs to drop an RSN in response to a price increase, making the RSN unavailable in large portions of a service area. Applicants also refute claims that their alleged foreclosure strategies stunt DBS penetration, explaining that several DMAs have lower DBS penetration than Philadelphia. With regard to CSN Chicago, Comcast contends that its acquisition of AT&T Broadband's cable systems in Chicago did not increase incentives to create RSN programming it could withhold from MVPD competitors. Applicants further maintain that the prices DIRECTV complains of for CSN Chicago programming are substantially identical to the prices charged by the RSN that used to provide CSN Chicago's programming to Comcast and other cable operators. In addition, Comcast contends that the price it charges for SportsNet New York is reasonable and below that charged by the YES Network, an RSN in New York that carries New York Yankees' games. Moreover, Time Warner asserts that the alleged harms with respect to SportsNet New York are not transaction specific, because Time Warner is acquiring only a small number of subscribers in SportsNet New York's footprint.
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
     132. "" DIRECTV and other parties contend that the transactions would increase the likelihood that Comcast or Time Warner will attempt to raise the costs of rival MVPDs by raising prices for affiliated RSNs in a discriminatory fashion that does not overtly violate the Commission's program access rules. According to DIRECTV, Comcast has used this strategy in Sacramento with respect to CSN West, which imposed terms and conditions of service that appeared to be nondiscriminatory on their face but nevertheless have allegedly had a discriminatory effect on DBS providers. Noting that this conduct is a "variation on uniform overcharge pricing," DIRECTV states that the program access rules do not necessarily constrain CSN West from setting its prices in this manner, which it refers to as "stealth" price discrimination. Applicants reject these contentions.
Stealth Discrimination.
448
449
450
     133. DIRECTV charges that Comcast's discriminatory pricing strategies with respect to CSN West are indicative of strategies Comcast and Time Warner are likely to employ elsewhere as a result of the transactions. According to DIRECTV, CSN West has a three-zone pricing structure, with the price
451
 
 
per subscriber highest in the inner zone, less in the outer zone, and least in the "outer outer" zone. In order to obtain CSN West, DIRECTV alleges that it is required to carry (and pay for) its programming in the outermost zone, even though the RSN does not have rights to carry the Sacramento Kings in that zone. DIRECTV says that as a result, it is paying license fees for subscribers who cannot receive the Kings' games, thus inflating the total price that DIRECTV must pay to obtain CSN West for those subscribers that can view the Kings' games. While CSN West apparently distributes other programming, including the Sacramento Monarchs and NCAA basketball, DIRECTV alleges that the Kings are the only men's professional sports team carried by the RSN. DIRECTV has almost twice as many subscribers in the outermost zone as it does in the inner and outer zones, so that the effective rate of carrying the RSN per subscriber that can receive the Kings' games is high, according to DIRECTV. By contrast, DIRECTV alleges, cable operators' franchise areas are rarely greater than one of the zones. Therefore, a cable operator in the outermost zone can simply make the decision not to carry the network. DIRECTV concedes that larger cable MSOs in the region that can also be required to carry CSN West in all three zones would be similarly affected, but it asserts that Comcast, which reaches over 97% of subscribers in the outermost zone, would be insulated from these effects because the overcharge to itself is merely an intra-company transfer. Comcast explains that the NBA authorizes CSN West to distribute Sacramento Kings' games only to certain geographic areas. Accordingly, Comcast states that it uses pricing zones to charge more for programming in the NBA-approved viewing zones and less for the programming in geographic areas outside of NBA-approved viewing zones, where the Kings' games cannot be carried. Comcast explains that it charges MVPDs according to this price zone structure throughout the MVPD's service area and does not allow MVPDs to "pick and choose the areas in which they must distribute the service."
452
453
454
455
456
457
458
     134. Commenters also allege that the transactions would likely result in the withholding of RSNs by the use of exclusive distribution agreements that foreclose competing MVPDs from access to the programming, as is already done with respect to CSN Philadelphia, a terrestrially delivered RSN. DIRECTV states that Comcast's and Time Warner's additional retail market share resulting from the transactions would make permanent foreclosure of regional programming more likely, that the transactions would dramatically increase the number of markets in which such a strategy would be economically rational, and that Comcast has recently put in place a nationwide fiber network that could be used to deliver programming terrestrially. DIRECTV and MAP assert that
Permanent Foreclosure.
459
460
 
 
DIRECTV claims that, based on its own calculations, a strategy of permanent withholding of CSN West would be profitable if of DBS subscribers switched to Comcast to obtain the RSN. DIRECTV asserts that the strategy also would be profitable in CSN Mid-Atlantic's footprint if of DBS subscribers switched to Comcast. In response, Comcast asserts that DIRECTV has not alleged a transaction-specific harm for any Comcast-affiliated RSN except possibly CSN Mid-Atlantic. Comcast asserts that DIRECTV's analysis with respect to that network has failed to produce any evidence that would justify the imposition of RSN-related conditions. According to Comcast, even assuming the validity of the analysis, which it disputes, the analysis concludes that for permanent foreclosure to be worthwhile, Comcast would need to gain an implausibly high number of subscribers. Further, Comcast rejects as purely speculative DIRECTV's analyses of markets in which neither Comcast nor Time Warner has an ownership interest in any RSN  markets in
[REDACTED]
461
[REDACTED]
462
[REDACTED]
463
464
465
 
 
which DIRECTV claims the transactions will enable the Applicants to secure sports team rights currently locked up by other distributors in order to launch new RSNs.
466
     135. With respect to allegations that it will adopt a strategy of terrestrial distribution of its affiliated RSNs, Comcast counters that it uses a terrestrial distribution network for only one regional sports network, CSN Philadelphia, and that the business case for doing so is unique to that market. It explains that when the RSN was created, there was a pre-existing regional network with a terrestrial distribution system already in place. The pre-existing network planned to cease operations, and the terrestrial distribution network it had used was capable of reaching all MVPD licensees that Comcast wished to reach with its new network. Comcast asserts that it has found satellite distribution to be more efficient and cost-effective in all other situations to date, explaining that its regional sports networks are typically delivered to a wide geographic region, which is generally determined by the areas in which the network has obtained the rights to distribute the underlying sports programming. Comcast states that the deployment and extension of terrestrial networks is highly capital intensive and that it generally has found satellite delivery to be the most economical method of serving the large geographic areas that RSNs typically serve. In addition, Comcast asserts that it would suffer adverse regulatory consequences if it were to deliver RSNs terrestrially and withhold them from competitors.
467
468
469
470
     136. Commenters cite the in support of arguments that the transactions are likely to facilitate temporary foreclosure. DIRECTV notes that temporary withholding can occur whenever there is an impasse in carriage negotiations and that the practice is not illegal under existing regulations, including the program access rules. DIRECTV states that the risk of temporary withholding is even greater here than it was in the transaction because (1) Applicants have a much greater share of several regional markets than did DIRECTV at that time; and (2) Applicants have demonstrated their willingness to engage in anticompetitive tactics, as demonstrated by Comcast's alleged "stealth discrimination" in Sacramento.
Temporary Foreclosure.
News Corp.-Hughes Order
471
News Corp.-Hughes
472
     137. The Applicants assert that the instant transactions differ significantly from the transaction, in which the Commission found that there were no reasonably available substitutes for News Corp.'s RSN programming and that ownership of that programming would give DIRECTV significant market power in the relevant geographic markets. The Applicants explain that the acquisition by News Corp. of an interest in DIRECTV created "an entirely new vertical relationship between the nation's largest DBS provider with the leading owner of RSNs," while the instant
News Corp.-Hughes
473
 
 
transactions involve "no material vertical effects." The Commission found that the transaction would give DIRECTV the incentive and ability to temporarily withhold access to RSN programming, because such withholding would provide a credible means of raising the prices charged to competing cable operators for RSN programming. The Commission therefore conditioned its approval of the transaction on compliance with a series of safeguards against temporary withholding of RSNs, including mandatory arbitration of carriage disputes.
474
News Corp.-Hughes
475
476
     138. DIRECTV has submitted an analysis of the profitability of temporary foreclosure based on the economic analysis used in the . DIRECTV has followed the general principles of the model that the Commission used in that proceeding, while accounting for several differences in the manner in which service is sold to consumers. Given these assumptions, DIRECTV estimates the level of profits (or losses) that the Applicants would earn from temporarily foreclosing DIRECTV's access to particular RSN programming. DIRECTV finds that temporary foreclosure of DIRECTV's access to CSN Mid-Atlantic and CSN West would be profitable prior to the transactions. It also indicates that temporary foreclosure would become more profitable following the transactions in the CSN Mid-Atlantic footprint. DIRECTV performs a similar calculation for six other RSN footprints where Comcast's or Time Warner's share of cable subscribers following the transactions would be at least 40%. DIRECTV reports that temporary foreclosure could be profitable following the transactions in these areas as well.
News Corp.-Hughes Order
477
478
479
480
481
     139. The Applicants criticize DIRECTV's analysis on the grounds that the transactions should be analyzed using the same indicator of a transaction-specific harm due to temporary foreclosure as that used in the . Pursuant to the analysis, a transaction-specific harm occurs when temporary foreclosure is unprofitable prior to that transaction and becomes profitable due to the transaction. The Applicants point out, however, that for the RSNs examined by DIRECTV, the point at which temporary foreclosure becomes profitable for Comcast is essentially identical both prior to and after the transactions.
News Corp.-Hughes Order
482
News Corp.-Hughes
483
     140. Based on the record and our own independent economic analysis in the Economic Appendix, we conclude that the transactions will increase the Applicants' incentive and ability to adopt a uniform price increase strategy for RSN programming and that the program access rules will not likely deter such conduct. As noted above, the program access rules do not prohibit a vertically integrated programmer from increasing prices charged to competing MVPDs if the price increase is not
Discussion.
 
 
discriminatory or if the programming is delivered terrestrially. Moreover, we find that a uniform price increase has no effect on the actual costs borne by an RSN's affiliated MVPD because, as DIRECTV states, the "payment goes from one pocket into another." Thus, the prospect of charging itself a higher rate for an affiliated RSN would not deter Comcast or Time Warner from charging a uniformly higher rate to DBS operators or other competing MVPDs. Uniform price increases will, in turn, result in higher cable prices and fewer alternatives for consumers. Applicants have not submitted economic data analysis or similar evidence to refute commenters' claims.
484
485
486
     141. Based on our review and analysis of the record, we conclude that even small increases in Comcast's and Time Warner's market shares may increase their incentives to increase the price of their RSNs uniformly. A downstream firm that wholly owns the upstream affiliate has an incentive to raise the price of its programming for both itself and its competitors in order to raise rivals' costs. In the MVPD market, a vertically integrated cable operator will likely charge the highest price that its DBS rivals are willing to pay for a vertically-integrated RSN. DBS operators' willingness to pay such prices increases as the footprint of the vertically integrated cable operator increases, because DBS operators know that if they fail to carry the RSN, more of their subscribers will switch to cable to gain access to such programming.
487
488
489
     142. As explained in greater detail in the Economic Appendix, the loss in subscribers is greatest when an MVPD does not carry an RSN that is carried by competing MVPDs. In that situation, an MVPD will pay more for an RSN than it would if its competitors did not carry the RSN. Since the market price of the affiliated RSN has no impact on the carriage decision of an affiliated MVPD, the RSN will be distributed in most, if not all, of the area served by the affiliated MVPD. As the footprint of the affiliated MVPD in the relevant geographic market covers more of the service territory of a competing
490
 
 
MVPD, the overall willingness to pay of a competing MVPD will rise. This occurs because, unlike unaffiliated MVPDs that may choose not to carry an increasingly expensive RSN, the affiliated MVPD does not react to increases in the price of the RSN.
491
     143. We estimate the willingness to pay for an RSN affiliated with one of the Applicants prior to the transactions and estimate the percentage change in this price following the transactions. Since the transactions at issue involve a large number of system swaps, we do not examine the impact of the change in size of each individual Applicant. Rather, we estimate the change in the willingness to pay based on the change in the size of the largest Applicant serving a given DMA. In its simplest form, the economic model predicts that the percent change in the fee of the affiliated RSN is equal to the percent change in the footprint of the largest Applicant. Consistent with the , we consider a price increase to be significant only if it is at least five percent. We choose this threshold not only because it is consistent with the , but also because we believe that price increases of five percent or more would likely harm rival MVPDs' ability to compete and/or be passed on to consumers in some form, such as increased rates or reductions in quality or customer service.
492
Horizontal Merger Guidelines
Horizontal Merger Guidelines
493
     144. We first evaluated the potential for a uniform price increase in all 210 DMAs. Under this initial, simplest form of the model, we found that there is a potential for an increase in the RSN's affiliation fee of at least five percent in 36 of the 94 DMAs affected by the transactions. As indicated in our discussion of the relevant geographic market, above, we then refined our analysis by focusing on so-called "key DMAs." "Key DMAs" are those DMAs that are home to a professional sports team that plays in one of the following leagues Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Football League, or the National Hockey League. These DMAs are most likely to be within the "inner zone" of an RSN where the sports programming is most popular and where the largest shifts in subscribers would be likely to occur if the RSN were withheld. We find a potential for an increase in the RSN's affiliation fee of at least five percent in 15 of the 39 key DMAs. These DMAs are Atlanta, Boston, Buffalo, Charlotte, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dallas, Jacksonville, Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis, Pittsburgh, San Diego, and Washington. In these DMAs, a uniform price increase is likely to extract at least an additional $4.2 million per market in RSN fees from unaffiliated MVPDs under conservative assumptions in our model. In the aggregate, over $290 million in additional fees could be extracted from MVPDs in these 15 DMAs. These MVPDs can in turn be expected to recoup these additional fees from consumers or by reducing expenditures for marketing or other activities.
494
495
496
497
498
     145. One of the factors that may influence the size of a uniform price increase applied to RSN programming is the impact on a competing MVPD of not having access to that RSN. Lack of access to RSN programming can decrease
Impact of Lack of RSN Access on a Uniform Price Increase Strategy.
 
 
an MVPD's market share significantly. The Applicants have argued that DIRECTV's and EchoStar's lack of access to CSN Philadelphia has not had a significant impact on DBS market share in Philadelphia and that DIRECTV's estimates of the effect are fatally flawed. We disagree.
499
     146. Evidence supports DIRECTV's contention that DBS penetration levels are lower when DBS providers cannot offer the local RSN to their subscribers than they are when DBS providers carry the local RSN, as demonstrated by our analysis of DBS market share in all 210 Nielsen DMAs using Nielsen data for the 2004-2005 television season. Our analysis indicates that DBS penetration in 81 DMAs falls below the DBS nationwide share of MVPD households calculated by Nielsen. There are three DMAs where the games of some of the local professional sports teams are not available to DBS subscribers: Charlotte, Philadelphia, and San Diego. Only four out of 210 DMAs have a lower DBS market share than San Diego, and only seven out of 210 DMAs have a lower market share than Philadelphia. The market share in San Diego is 9.5%, which is 59% below the national market share. The market share in Philadelphia is 10.9%, which is 53% below the national figure. Thus, the
500
501
502
503
 
 
aggregate market shares appear to indicate that DBS providers have unusually low market shares in markets where they cannot provide local sports programming to their subscribers.
     147. In addition to comparing DBS market shares across DMAs, a method that fails to consider many factors that may influence DBS penetration levels, we have used a regression analysis to estimate the effect of withholding RSNs on DBS operators' market shares. This enables us to examine the factors that influence DBS market share and to separate out the effect of RSN access from the other factors that could affect DBS market shares.
     148. There are two studies in the record that use regression analysis to estimate the impact on DBS market shares when the local RSN is not available to DBS operators. Each of the studies uses a different source of data to produce similar findings. Using information on the number of DBS subscribers from Media Business Corporation, DIRECTV finds that the proportion of homes subscribing to DBS in the Philadelphia DMA is 51% lower than it would be if the RSN were made available to DBS. DIRECTV reports that it does not find a statistically significant effect from withholding RSN access in San Diego. EchoStar has also submitted a regression analysis, conducted in 2003, using its internal subscriber counts. EchoStar's analysis indicates that EchoStar's penetration in the Philadelphia DMA is about lower than it would be if it had access to CSN Philadelphia.
504
505
[REDACTED]
506
     149. Our own regression analysis uses data from the Cable Price Survey, as well as Nielsen's data regarding the number of households that subscribe to DBS. We find that the percentage of television households that subscribe to DBS service in Philadelphia is 40% below what would otherwise be expected given the characteristics of the market and the cable operators in the DMA. In the San Diego DMA, lack of access to RSN programming is estimated to cause a 33% reduction in the households subscribing to DBS service. The analysis does not show a statistically significant effect on predicted market share caused by withholding regional sports programming in Charlotte.
507
508
     150. Comcast's own documents indicate that Comcast, too, recognizes . Thus, Comcast's own documents suggest that . Although Comcast claims this document does not represent the company's official position, it nevertheless casts doubt on Comcast's claims that RSN access has no impact on DBS penetration.
[REDACTED]
509
510
[REDACTED]
511
     151. We conclude that there is substantial evidence that a large number of consumers will refuse to purchase DBS service if the provider cannot offer an RSN. The results of RSN withholding in Charlotte do not undermine this conclusion. The Charlotte Bobcats are a relatively new team and do not yet have a strong enough following to induce large numbers of subscribers to switch MVPDs. There is no evidence to suggest that the popularity of RSNs or of local professional sports teams will decline in the
 
 
future and every indication that access to RSNs will continue to be an important determinant of market share. The circumstances that create an incentive to engage in a uniform price increase are likely to exist with respect to most RSNs. Because the failure to carry an RSN can have a significant impact on the profitability of an MVPD facing direct competition, competing MVPDs will be willing to pay a high price in order to ensure that they obtain RSN programming.
     152. The record demonstrates that the Applicants have established joint ventures that have enhanced their ability to impose uniform price increases. In particular, Comcast and Time Warner share ownership of SportsNet New York, and Comcast and Charter share ownership of Comcast/Charter Sports Southeast. One potential risk of raising an affiliated RSN's price is that non-competing cable operators in the RSN's footprint may decline to purchase the network. In several instances, however, Applicants have shared ownership in the RSN with other local, non-rival cable operators. Forming joint ventures with non-competing cable operators immunizes the vertically integrated cable operator from a uniform price increase's impact, because the higher price the non-competing cable operator pays is offset by the higher returns gained from its share of the RSN's profits. Indeed, if the RSN ownership shares match each cable operator's share of the total subscribers that receive the RSN's programming, then a uniform price increase will have no impact on each cable operator's profits. The formation of joint ventures with non-competing cable operators, therefore, significantly increases the likelihood that these other cable operators will purchase the RSN programming regardless of price. For example, Applicants' internal documents indicate . This evidence suggests that MVPDs can use a joint venture as a vehicle by which to implement a uniform price increase strategy.
Other Influences on the Profitability of Uniform Price Increase Strategy.
512
513
514
515
[REDACTED]
516
     153. We agree with DIRECTV that Applicants' use of "net effective rate" provisions also establishes a means by which Comcast and Time Warner can absorb a uniform price increase while raising the costs of programming to their MVPD rivals. For example, under the agreement establishing the joint venture that owns SportsNet New York, Comcast and Time Warner have the right to These provisions are consistent with, and eliminate the cost to
517
[REDACTED]
518
[REDACTED]
519
 
 
cable operators of, a potential strategy of engaging in a uniform price increase because Comcast and Time Warner can incorporate the share of profits their programming divisions stand to receive from affiliated RSNs when evaluating the rate their cable divisions should pay for such programming. As DIRECTV explains regarding the use of such a provision .
520
[REDACTED]
521
     154. We are not persuaded by Time Warner's contention that a joint venture structure mitigates the likelihood that it could use the net effective rate provision in the SportsNet New York agreement to impose a uniform price increase strategy. Though an MVPD may have only partial RSN ownership, the costs it incurs as the result of a uniform price increase for that programming are nonetheless lower than the costs an unaffiliated MVPD would incur, because even partial ownership entitles an owner to a share of profits from advertising and other sources, as well as from the increased programming fees.
522
523
     155. Our analysis demonstrates that the transactions are likely to result in a public interest harm based on the ability of Applicants to impose uniform price increases on carriage of RSN programming. This could not only harm consumers of existing MVPDs but also could hamper entry by new MVPD competitors, thereby denying consumers the significant benefits of emerging MVPD competition. Because the program access rules do not afford a remedy for allegations of competitive harm due to uniform price increases, we determine that conditions are necessary to mitigate the foregoing potential harms.
Conditions.
524
 
 
     156. To mitigate potential harms from uniform price increases, as well as other strategies discussed below, we impose a remedy based on commercial arbitration such as that imposed in the . The arbitration remedy, as set forth in Appendix B, will constrain Comcast's and Time Warner's ability to increase rates for RSN programming uniformly or otherwise disadvantage rival MVPDs via anticompetitive strategies. Likewise, as we did in the , we also condition our approval on a requirement that Comcast, Time Warner, and their covered RSNs, regardless of the means of delivery, refrain from engaging in specific unfair practices proscribed by the Commission's program access rules. Specifically, we prohibit Comcast, Time Warner, and their existing or future covered RSNs, regardless of the means of delivery, from offering any such RSN on an exclusive basis to any MVPD, and we prohibit Comcast and Time Warner from entering into an exclusive distribution arrangement with any such RSN, regardless of the means of delivery. In addition, we require that Comcast, Time Warner, and their covered RSNs, regardless of the means of delivery, make such RSNs available to all MVPDs on a non-exclusive basis and on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions. We also prohibit Comcast and Time Warner (including any entity with which it is affiliated) from unduly or improperly influencing (i) the decision of any covered RSN, regardless of the means of delivery, to sell programming to an unaffiliated MVPD; or (ii) the prices, terms, and conditions of sale of programming by a covered RSN, regardless of the means of delivery, to an unaffiliated MVPD. For enforcement purposes, aggrieved MVPDs may bring program access complaints against Comcast and Time Warner or their covered RSNs using the procedures set forth in the Commission's program access rules.
News Corp.-Hughes Order
News Corp.-Hughes Order
525
526
527
     157. We adopt this condition to ensure that the exclusive contracts and practices, non-discrimination, and undue or improper influence requirements of the program access rules will apply to Comcast, Time Warner, and their covered RSNs, regardless of the means of program delivery. As in the , this program access condition will apply to Comcast, Time Warner, and their covered RSNs for six years, provided that if the program access rules are modified this condition shall be modified to conform to any revised rules adopted by the Commission. Comcast's and Time Warner's
News Corp.-Hughes Order
528
 
 
satellite-delivered networks will continue to be subject to the program access rules even after the conditions imposed herein expire.
     158. For purposes of the foregoing conditions the term "RSN" means any non-broadcast video programming service that (1) provides live or same-day distribution within a limited geographic region of sporting events of a sports team that is a member of Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Football League, the National Hockey League, NASCAR, NCAA Division I Football, NCAA Division I Basketball and (2) in any year, carries a minimum of either 100 hours of programming that meets the criteria of subheading 1, or 10% of the regular season games of at least one sports team that meets the criteria of subheading 1. The 100-hour programming minimum is based on the minimum amount of regional sports programming that commenters contended could harm competitors if it were withheld from them. We note that for some sports in which relatively few games are played during the regular season, however, that criterion would allow a network to carry an entire season of a team's games without being considered an RSN. We therefore added a percentage of programming figure in our definition as an alternative method of measuring the programming time required to fit the definition of RSN. In assessing which percentage to use, we noted that there are examples of regions with five or more teams of the type described in subheading 1 with significant regional interest, and a programming threshold of 20% would enable a network to carry a full season of sporting events by combining the games of such teams, without being considered an RSN. On the other hand, setting the threshold too low might prevent a network from carrying even a single game of significant local interest. Therefore we have selected 10% as our alternative threshold measure.
529
530
531
     159. As discussed above, we find that the Applicants will have an incentive to increase the price of affiliated RSNs in a number of markets as a result of the transactions. Our analysis described above highlights the transaction-specific incentives for Comcast and Time Warner to impose uniform price increases in 15 DMAs, but, in fashioning a remedy for potential pricing harms, we cannot view the 15 DMAs in isolation from other markets in which the applicants own RSNs. Because arbitration outcomes may be affected by the general price level and price trends for RSNs, the imposition of an arbitration condition for only some of the Applicants' affiliated RSNs could give Applicants the incentive to increase the prices of affiliated RSNs not subject to the condition. In this way, the Applicants could defeat the remedial effects of an arbitration condition were it limited only to a subset of markets.
     160. While the conditions are intended to remedy the potential harms from uniform price increases, these conditions will also provide protection, if necessary, against "stealth discrimination,"
 
 
permanent foreclosure, and temporary foreclosure. Thus, we need not determine the degree to which the transactions increase the profitability of any of these strategies.
532
     161. The arbitration and program access conditions apply in two situations. First, they apply to RSNs currently managed or controlled by Comcast or Time Warner. These are the RSNs that Comcast or Time Warner can ensure abide by the conditions. Second, the conditions, on a going-forward basis, forbid the Applicants from acquiring an attributable interest in, an option to purchase an attributable interest in, or one that would permit management or control of an RSN during the period of the conditions set forth in Appendix B if the RSN is not obligated to abide by the conditions. This approach is intended to prevent the development of contractual provisions that could circumvent the conditions and will ensure that Comcast and Time Warner take the conditions into account when structuring or restructuring investments in the future, such that a new or restructured financial interest is accompanied by a contractual obligation by the RSN to abide by the conditions.
533
     162. We conclude that technological change may alter the economics of the various delivery modes. Further, we note that Comcast already operates regional terrestrial distribution networks in locations. Should Comcast or Time Warner later determine that terrestrial delivery is the most cost-effective means of distributing their existing RSNs or RSNs they may acquire or develop, the Commission's program access rules would not prevent either firm from withholding such programming from their rivals or from imposing discriminatory pricing. Accordingly, we apply the arbitration condition and the prohibition on exclusive contracts or other behaviors proscribed by the program access rules described herein regardless of the means of delivery to protect against public interest harms. We note that Comcast alleges that terrestrial delivery is not economical. If it becomes economical because of the possibility of permanent withholding, our conditions will ensure that such anticompetitive behavior does not result. Comcast and Time Warner will be able to factor our conditions into their decision whether to invest in terrestrial delivery, and our conditions will ensure that the economics are not influenced by the possibility of anticompetitive behavior.
[REDACTED]
534
535
     163. We accept, however, Applicants' explanation that Philadelphia is a unique case. The method of delivery in Philadelphia was not chosen for the purposes of enabling anticompetitive behavior. Rather, the programming was delivered terrestrially before the network was acquired by Comcast. Accordingly, though we apply the conditions discussed above to covered RSNs regardless of delivery mode, we do not require that Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia be subject to those conditions to the extent it is not currently available to MVPDs. With regard to MVPDs that currently have contracts for SportsNet Philadelphia, both the program access and arbitration conditions will apply as set forth above.
536
 
 
     164. As we concluded in the proceeding, the markets and technologies used in the provision of MVPD services and video programming continue to evolve over time, rendering accurate predictions of future competitive conditions difficult. Accordingly, as in , the arbitration condition shall remain in effect for six years from the adoption date of this Order. The Commission will consider a petition for modification of this condition if it can be demonstrated that there has been a material change in circumstance or the condition has proven unduly burdensome, rendering the condition no longer necessary in the public interest.
News Corp.-Hughes
537
News Corp.-Hughes
538
     165. Six months prior to the expiration of the conditions, the Commission shall issue a report on regional sports network access and carriage issues both on an industry-wide basis and specifically with respect to the Applicants. After issuing the report, the Commission, in its discretion, may determine if further action is warranted. Moreover, the Commission intends to review, evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the complaint resolution procedures prescribed in Sections 76.1003 and 76.1302 of our rules.
539
     166. . EchoStar and RCN assert that the proposed transactions would give Time Warner and Comcast an enhanced incentive and ability to withhold national and non-sports regional programming. According to EchoStar, Comcast's expanded share of the national MVPD market would result in an increased incentive and ability to engage in vertical foreclosure strategies. RCN contends that its difficulties in obtaining PBS Kids and PBS Sprout VOD programming, programming that is developed by a joint venture controlled by Comcast, shows Comcast's desire to use the bargaining power of "must have" PBS Kids and PBS Sprout VOD programming content as leverage to impose onerous terms on RCN. RCN contends that PBS Kids and PBS Sprout VOD qualify as
Positions of the Parties
540
541
542
 
 
"must have" programming because RCN suffered an 83% drop in VOD usage when RCN did not carry PBS Kids. EchoStar and RCN urge the Commission to condition approval of the transactions so that the program access rules would apply to all programming owned by Comcast and Time Warner, including terrestrially delivered programming. RCN further recommends that Comcast and Time Warner be required to waive non-disclosure clauses in their programming contracts, to arbitrate program access disputes, and to be prohibited from entering into exclusive contracts for programming and program-related enhancements. EchoStar asks the Commission to impose a la carte and nondiscrimination conditions, which would apparently apply to all video programming affiliated with either Comcast or Time Warner. Applicants oppose the requests for conditions, stating that there is no basis for applying the program access rules to terrestrially-delivered programming because there is no indication that the transactions would cause any programming to shift to terrestrial delivery. Responding to RCN's contention that Comcast entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with PBS Sprout to harm RCN, PBS Sprout explains that it chose Comcast's VOD distributor, Comcast Media Center ("CMC"), as its exclusive distributor because CMC offered competitive rates for transmission and one-stop-shopping for a
543
544
545
546
547
548
 
 
variety of technical services. Furthermore, PBS Sprout avers that several national networks for children's programming exist and that therefore PBS Kids and PBS Sprout programming does not qualify as "must have."
549
550
     167. We conclude that the transactions are not likely to cause public interest harms relating to access to the Applicants' national or non-sports regional programming. Thus, it is unnecessary to impose the commenters' and petitioners' proposed remedial conditions.
Discussion.
     168. With respect to nationally distributed programming, we find that the existing program access rules will ensure that competing MVPDs have access to programming networks that are affiliated with Comcast or Time Warner and that the terms and conditions of that access do not unfairly disadvantage competing MVPDs. All of the national programming networks affiliated with Comcast and Time Warner are delivered by satellite and are therefore subject to the program access rules. The record is devoid of evidence demonstrating that the transactions would increase the economic or technical feasibility of distributing affiliated national programming terrestrially. Furthermore, there is no evidence in the record that Applicants plan to pursue such a strategy. With respect to RCN's claims that PBS Kids and PBS Sprout programming qualify as "must have," we note that several substitutes exist for that programming. Furthermore, as discussed below, entering into a national programming market poses fewer barriers to entry than the market for regional sports programming.
551
552
     169. Similarly, we find that the transactions are not likely to result in public interest harms due to the foreclosure of Applicants' non-sports regional programming. Although some of Comcast's and Time Warner's local and regional networks are delivered terrestrially and therefore are not subject to the program access rules, the record does not indicate that an MVPD's lack of access to this programming would harm competition or consumers. Moreover, entry into the market for regional non-sports programming is not hindered by a lack of content, as is the case with respect to regional sports programming, for which there is a limited supply of distribution rights to desirable local sporting events. Because the transactions are not likely to create public interest harms with respect to national and non-sports regional programming, the conditions advocated by commenters are unnecessary. EchoStar's
553
 
 
proposed a la carte condition, in particular, lacks any apparent connection to the issues raised by the transactions, and EchoStar has not demonstrated that the proposed condition would remedy a transaction-specific harm. Accordingly, we decline to adopt the suggested conditions.
          
2. Access to Unaffiliated Programming/Exclusive Dealing
     170. To provide all the programming their subscribers desire, Comcast and Time Warner must have access to program networks with which they are not affiliated. There are two types of unaffiliated programming in this context: (1) programming from networks that are vertically integrated with cable operators other than Time Warner or Comcast; and (2) programming from networks that are not vertically integrated with any cable operator. Programming networks that are affiliated with a cable operator cannot enter into exclusive contracts absent a waiver of the program access rules, and they also must abide by the rules' nondiscrimination provisions.
554
555
     171. . According to EchoStar, by increasing Comcast's and Time Warner's subscriber reach, the transactions would increase each firm's ability to obtain preferential terms from unaffiliated programmers, which ultimately would harm consumers. EchoStar urges the Commission to impose a condition prohibiting Comcast from entering into exclusive distribution agreements with unaffiliated programming networks or from obtaining other preferential terms or conditions. DIRECTV contends that the proposed transactions would significantly expand the geographic areas in which exclusive agreements would be economically rational, to the detriment of competing MVPDs and ultimately to consumers. DIRECTV urges the Commission to address potential harms to competing MVPDs by prohibiting exclusive deals between Comcast or Time Warner and any unaffiliated RSN in markets where prescribed levels of regional concentration would result post-
Positions of the Parties
556
557
558
 
 
transaction. TCR and CWA/IBEW ask that we prohibit exclusive agreements by Time Warner and Comcast with RSNs. CFA/CU also ask us to prohibit exclusives with unaffiliated programmers.
559
560
561
     172. Applicants oppose the requested conditions, contending that an MVPDs' ability to enter into exclusive arrangements generally has been deemed to promote competition by allowing competing MVPDs to differentiate their service offerings and provide consumers with a wide range of better services. Applicants state that the Commission has previously considered and rejected proposals to extend program access requirements to non-vertically integrated programmers on grounds that such action would contradict congressional intent.
562
563
     173. We find that the transactions will not increase the likelihood of public interest harms deriving from the Applicants' ability to enter into exclusive contracts with unaffiliated programmers. First, the transactions will not enhance the Applicants' incentive or ability to enter into exclusive contracts with programming networks that are vertically integrated with cable operators other than Comcast or Time Warner. The program access rules generally do not allow programmers that are vertically integrated with a cable operator to enter into exclusive contracts or discriminate against unaffiliated MVPDs. In implementing the ban on exclusivity, the Commission sought to achieve Congress' goal of establishing "a video programming marketplace that is competitive and diverse." We do not believe that the transactions will in any way weaken the existing regulatory structure or
Discussion.
564
 
 
somehow permit the Applicants to skirt the existing rules. In any event, Congress recognized that there is some value in certain exclusivity arrangements, as Congress permits the Commission to approve such agreements if it finds them to be in the public interest and does not prohibit the use of exclusive agreements by non-vertically integrated programming networks.
565
     174. Second, the record does not indicate that the transactions at issue here are likely to materially enhance the Applicants' incentive or ability to enter into exclusive contracts with non-vertically integrated programmers. A cable operator will enter into an exclusive distribution agreement with a non-vertically integrated programming network only if doing so is more profitable for both parties than a non-exclusive arrangement. The profitability analysis involves weighing the costs and benefits of an exclusive agreement with the costs and benefits of a non-exclusive agreement. The costs of entering into an exclusive agreement include the costs to compensate the programming network for revenue the network loses when its programming is not sold to competing MVPDs. These costs may be recovered from any additional revenue earned by the cable operator due to its acquisition of new subscribers as a result of the exclusivity agreement. Costs may also be recovered from increased rates charged to the cable operators' existing customers due to the loss of competition from rival MVPDs that are unable to offer the programming. Since the exclusivity agreement enables the cable operator to differentiate its program offerings, the fraction of customers that leave the cable operator in response to a price increase is less than it otherwise would have been. The critical feature in this calculation is the degree to which MVPD customers are willing to switch from one MVPD to another to obtain certain desired programming or to avoid rate increases. The higher the switching rate to gain access to exclusive content, the more likely an exclusive contract is to be profitable for the programming network and a cable operator. This effect is countered by the willingness of existing customers to defect to the competing MVPD in search of lower rates.
566
     175. Commenters have argued that Comcast's and Time Warner's increased horizontal reach will serve to increase their incentives to enter into exclusive contracts. As the area served by a cable operator increases, the number of customers that can be captured from competing MVPDs is also likely to increase. This would have the effect of increasing the total amount that the cable operator would be willing to pay for an exclusive license. However, an exclusive programming contract with a cable operator generally allows the programming network to be carried by other non-competing cable operators, so that it is the willingness to pay of all cable operators that influences the programming network's decision on whether to offer an exclusive license. In this case, the total willingness to pay for an exclusive arrangement by all cable operators in an area would not be affected by consolidation among cable operators, because the number of customers that could be captured by all cable operators from competing MVPDs (DBS) would remain unchanged. Consequently, the amount of revenue that could be paid to the programmer also would be unchanged, as would the programmer's incentives to offer
567
e.g.,
 
 
an exclusive license. The record does not indicate that the transactions would materially reduce the costs of coordinating a regional cable-only exclusive distribution agreement such that the strategy would become profitable where it is not already profitable today.
568
     176. We note that the only exclusive arrangement raised in the record concerning a network that is not affiliated with the Applicants  one between Time Warner and Carolina Sports Entertainment Network ("C-SET")  was ultimately not commercially viable, as C-SET has ceased operations. Though some of the programming formerly carried on C-SET is now available on News 14 Carolina, which is carried exclusively on Time Warner, the fate that befell C-SET indicates that even exclusive arrangements with a cable operator serving more than 50% of the market can fail to meet revenue targets if the programming is not sufficiently valuable to customers.
569
570
     177. DIRECTV alleges that Time Warner considered entering into an exclusive arrangement in Cleveland that would have harmed DBS competition. DIRECTV claims that in Cleveland, .. DIRECTV claims that developments in Charlotte and Cleveland are indicative of foreclosure strategies Comcast and Time Warner are likely to pursue as a result of the transactions with respect to programming they do not own. Applicants claim that these concerns are misplaced.
[REDACTED]
571
572
573
 
 
     178. Although commenters contend that Comcast's increased subscriber reach will give it sufficient market power to demand that unaffiliated programmers refuse to deal with other MVPDs, we have no evidence to support that theory and thus cannot conclude that such harm would occur as a result of these transactions, notwithstanding Time Warner's actions in Charlotte or Cleveland. In addition, Time Warner's decision not to acquire exclusive rights to the new RSN in Cleveland, which was made after the transactions were already proposed, suggests that the transactions have not enhanced the profitability of such an arrangement. Absent evidence indicating that Comcast or Time Warner are more likely as a result of the transactions to gain exclusive rights for highly valued programming, resulting in harm to competition and consumers, we lack any basis for concluding that the transactions are likely to produce public interest harms with respect to programming that is not affiliated with these firms.
574
prima facie
     179. Finally, we conclude that the Act's cable horizontal ownership (Section 613) and program carriage (Section 616) provisions are broad enough to address potential harms to the public in this area, should they later materialize. Section 613 of the Act is intended, in part, to prevent any single cable operator from achieving market power to the degree that it can manipulate the programming market to reduce the flow of video programming to the public. As we have stated in analyzing other potential harms, the transactions will leave Time Warner's subscribership levels well below the Commission's existing horizontal limits, and Comcast's horizontal reach will be almost equivalent to the horizontal reach the Commission approved in the Although the Commission's horizontal ownership limits remain the subject of an ongoing proceeding, we have no evidence that the proposed horizontal reach of either Comcast or Time Warner will allow either cable operator to demand or profit from exclusive contracts with programming networks. Section 616 of the Act expressly prohibits cable operators from coercing programming networks into exclusive arrangements as a condition of carriage. There is no evidence in the record to suggest that the Applicants will violate this prohibition in the future, but we will entertain any complaint by any party if the situation later arises.
575
Comcast-AT&T Order.
576
          
3. Program Carriage Issues
     180. Commenters contend that the proposed transactions would give Comcast and Time Warner market power over unaffiliated national and regional programmers to the detriment of consumers. Commenters argue that without sufficient conditions, Comcast and Time Warner would be able to use their post-transaction market power to "make or break" unaffiliated programmers simply by choosing not to carry them and that Comcast and Time Warner would be more likely as a result of the transactions to favor their affiliated networks over unaffiliated networks in carriage decisions.
     181. As discussed below, we find that the leased access condition we adopt herein will address concerns about Comcast's and Time Warner's incentive and ability to discriminate against unaffiliated programming networks. We find that additional measures are necessary with respect to unaffiliated regional sports networks to mitigate the potential harms deriving from the increased vertical integration and increased regional concentration produced by the transactions. Accordingly, we adopt a condition allowing unaffiliated RSNs to use commercial arbitration to resolve disputes regarding carriage on Comcast or Time Warner cable systems.
 
 
     182. . Several commenters contend that Comcast and Time Warner have the financial incentive and ability to favor their affiliated programming over unaffiliated programming because they are producers and packagers of video programming. TAC contends that vertically integrated media companies like Time Warner and Comcast have a strong disincentive to embrace new networks, which compete with their affiliated networks for viewers, advertising dollars, and channel capacity. TAC presents data showing that Comcast and Time Warner routinely choose to carry their own networks and those owned by other large media companies, while rejecting other networks, and that they tend to carry their own networks and those owned by other large media companies on linear tiers (., analog basic tiers or digital tiers), while relegating other networks to VOD, which TAC views as an inferior carriage option. Specifically, TAC argues that of 114 "independent" networks seeking national carriage in recent years, Comcast launched only one on a national, non-premium basis, and it was a channel owned by the National Football League. Time Warner also launched only one "independent" channel, The Sportsman Channel, on a national, non-premium basis. In contrast, TAC contends that Comcast and Time Warner carry about half of their affiliated networks nationally. TAC argues that absent appropriate conditions, the proposed transactions likely would prevent the emergence of new channels that are unaffiliated with large media companies.
Positions of the Parties: Nationally Distributed Programming
577
578
i.e
579
580
581
582
     183. CWA/IBEW agree with TAC that Comcast and Time Warner would be more likely to favor their affiliated programming and discriminate against unaffiliated programmers as a result of the transactions. CWA/IBEW, TAC, and Free Press support proposed conditions to ensure that programmers unaffiliated with Applicants or other large media companies gain carriage on Comcast's and Time Warner's cable systems.
583
584
     184. Applicants respond that they do not control the viability of independent networks. They reject TAC's assertion that in the present context "independent networks" should exclude networks independently owned by other large media companies. They state that TAC's arguments should be
585
 
 
raised and addressed, if at all, in the Commission's pending cable horizontal and vertical ownership proceeding. Applicants contend that TAC's arguments are belied by a robust programming marketplace. Applicants further assert that TAC's claims directly contradict the court's recognition in that customers with access to an alternative MVPD may switch providers, thereby constraining whatever market power the first MVPD may be thought to have.
586
Time Warner II
587
     185. . TCR raises concerns regarding the transactions' effects on an unaffiliated RSN's ability to obtain carriage on Comcast and Time Warner systems where either Applicant owns a competing RSN. According to TCR, to evaluate whether the post-transaction entity would have an increased incentive and ability to engage in anticompetitive foreclosure strategies regarding RSNs, the Commission should apply a three-prong inquiry that asks (1) whether the post-transaction company would have a large enough share of the relevant MVPD households such that the MVPD's decision not to carry a competing programmer's offering would cause a competing programmer to exit the market or would deter a potential entrant from entering; (2) whether the company owns affiliated programming from which it could benefit by the reduction in programming competition; and (3) whether any additional profits attained by the reduction of competition in the regional market would outweigh the lost earnings from carriage of the competing programming on the MVPD's own systems. TCR maintains that the transactions satisfy each of these criteria and therefore are likely to have anticompetitive effects.
Regional Programming
588
589
     186. TCR notes that Comcast owns and operates a regional sports network, CSN Mid-Atlantic, that carries a substantial amount of regional sports programming in the Baltimore and Washington DMAs. As set forth in its separately-filed program carriage complaint, TCR alleges that Comcast has refused unlawfully to carry TCR's network, MASN, which has the right to exhibit the Washington Nationals baseball games, in order to protect its own competing RSN. TCR contends that Comcast has also attempted to leverage its market power to dissuade other MVPDs from carrying TCR's competitive regional sports content. TCR asserts that other MVPDs have been intimidated by Comcast and thus far have refused to sign affiliation agreements for MASN.
590
591
592
593
 
 
     187. TCR claims that Comcast's subscribers in the Washington DMA have not responded to the unavailability of MASN by switching to alternative MVPDs that carry MASN. TCR contends that post-transaction, Comcast would be able to deny MASN access to more cable homes in the Washington DMA, driving MASN from the market. TCR states that Comcast would then secure the distribution rights to the Washington Nationals games for its own network, thereby extending its downstream market power into the upstream programming market. Using pre-transaction and post-transaction data on ten DMAs in which Comcast owns an RSN, TCR argues that the tipping point for the successful foreclosure of an unaffiliated RSN, ., the point at which foreclosure becomes profitable, is approximately 49% of MVPD subscribers in a DMA and that Comcast's post-merger subscriber share in the Washington DMA will be 53%.
594
595
596
i.e
597
     188. Applicants assert that the proposed transactions present no threats to independent programmers. They contend that much of TCR's petition recounts assertions made in its program carriage complaint against Comcast and that TCR fails to establish grounds for the imposition of any conditions on the proposed transactions. Applicants claim that Comcast's decision not to carry TCR's programming is not the product of discrimination based on affiliation and that TCR's real concern involves a contractual dispute regarding TCR's right to exhibit the Baltimore Orioles' baseball games. Applicants further contend that the market for regional programming networks is robust. They dispute TCR's calculation of post-transaction concentration, claiming that MASN's footprint includes nearly twice as many subscribers as TCR claims and that Comcast's post-transaction share of subscribers in that footprint would be much smaller than TCR contends. Applicants further assert that since Adelphia is not carrying MASN, the transactions will not result in a loss of programming to consumers who currently receive it.
598
599
600
601
602
603
 
 
     189. We find that the leased access condition we adopt above is sufficient to address concerns regarding the carriage of nationally distributed and non-sports regional programming. With respect to regional sports programming, based on the record, we find that the transactions will increase the incentive and ability of Comcast and Time Warner to deny carriage to RSNs that are not affiliated with them. As noted above, the programming provided by RSNs is unique because it is particularly desirable and cannot be duplicated. Moreover, as a result of the transactions, the sports rights with a regional interest become more valuable to the Applicants. Accordingly, post-transaction Time Warner and Comcast will have an increased incentive to deny carriage to rival unaffiliated RSNs with the intent of forcing the RSNs out of business or discouraging potential rivals from entering the market, thereby allowing Comcast or Time Warner to obtain the valuable programming for its affiliated RSNs. We further find that once this occurs, Comcast and Time Warner would have the incentive to raise its rival MVPDs' costs through a uniform price increase or engage in other anticompetitive strategies such as withholding the programming from its rival MVPDs. We find that this strategy would be made less likely by the arbitration and program access conditions that we adopt but recognize that Comcast and Time Warner nevertheless may be more likely to succeed in foreclosing an unaffiliated RSN as a result of the transactions. As a result, consumers could be unable to view the RSN's programming or could have to pay higher costs for the programming. Accordingly, to prevent such behavior, we adopt a further condition requiring Comcast and Time Warner to engage in commercial arbitration with any unaffiliated RSN that is unable to reach a carriage agreement with either firm, should the RSN elect to use the arbitration remedy.
Discussion.
604
605
     190. To constrain Comcast's and Time Warner's ability to unlawfully refuse carriage to unaffiliated RSNs, we impose a remedy based on commercial arbitration such as that imposed in the , as set forth in Appendix B. Under the carriage condition, for a period of six years from the adoption date of this Order, and in lieu of filing a program carriage complaint with the Commission, an RSN unaffiliated with any MVPD that has been denied carriage by Comcast or Time Warner may submit its carriage claim to arbitration within 30 days after the denial of carriage or within ten business days after release of this Order, whichever is later. The arbitration rules would be the same as those for the MVPDs, except that the arbitrator has 45 days to issue a decision, to accommodate deciding the threshold issue of whether carriage should be required. The Commission shall issue its findings and conclusions not more than 60 days after receipt of a petition for review of the arbitrator's award, which may be extended by the Commission for one period of 60 days.
Condition.
News Corp.-Hughes Order
     191. We impose this commercial arbitration condition as an alternative for unaffiliated RSNs to our existing program carriage complaint procedures. By establishing an additional procedure and specific time frames for a full resolution of an unaffiliated RSN's complaint, we seek to alleviate the potential harms to viewers who are denied access to valuable RSN programming during protracted carriage disputes. The timely resolution of carriage disputes is particularly important given the seasonal nature of RSN programming.
VII. ANALYSIS OF OTHER POTENTIAL PUBLIC INTEREST HARMS
     192. We consider below whether the proposed transactions are likely to lead to public interest harms with respect to the carriage of broadcast signals; diversity; deployment of services based on economic status; race and ethnicity; employment practices; Internet related content, applications, or services; and equipment and interactive television. We also consider allegations that Applicants lack the requisite character qualifications to hold Commission licenses. We conclude that the transactions are not likely to result in the potential harms alleged by commenters and petitioners. We find that some of the concerns raised are not transaction-specific and are more appropriately addressed in other proceedings.
 
 
We further find that the character qualifications issues raised in the record do not warrant denial of the applications or the imposition of conditions.
     
A. Broadcast Programming Issues
     193. Several commenters allege that the transactions will harm local broadcast service. Specifically, commenters assert that increased regional cable concentration post-transaction will affect the ability of local broadcast stations to gain carriage on Comcast and Time Warner systems through retransmission consent negotiations, to reach agreements with Comcast and Time Warner about the carriage of multicast digital signals and about other digital transition issues, and to disseminate programming and viewpoints of interest to local communities.
     194. Free Press asserts that the level of ownership concentration resulting from the transactions will create regional monopolies and monopsonies in the top 25 DMAs and will thereby have a "dramatic impact" on the negotiating power of broadcast licensees. It alleges that Comcast and Time Warner will be able to dictate the terms of and freely deny carriage to licensees, causing viewers to suffer as a consequence. More specifically, Free Press anticipates that Comcast and Time Warner may force broadcasters to accept the downgrading of their digital signals to analog quality or place the local broadcast digital signals on more expensive programming tiers. Free Press concludes that the additional regional market power exercised by Comcast and Time Warner post-transaction would delay the national transition to digital TV by increasing the conflict between broadcasters and cable operators. Echoing these concerns, NAB urges the Commission to adopt conditions to ensure that large, regionally clustered cable systems will negotiate reasonably with local broadcast stations for retransmission consent and for the carriage of digital signals, including multicast programming streams. NAB indicates that such conditions would serve the public interest by promoting the widespread dissemination of information from a multiplicity of sources, including those not under the control of the cable operator.
606
607
608
609
     195. KVMD, the licensee of Station KVMD-DT, Channel 23, in Twentynine Palms, California, contends that the transfer of Adelphia cable systems to Comcast and Time Warner may harm localism by preventing viewers from receiving its Spanish-language, local news and public affairs, sports, and lifestyle programming. KVMD asserts that, without carriage on a cable system, its array of programs might otherwise be unavailable to many viewers in the Los Angeles market. KVMD fears that Comcast and Time Warner, after they acquire Adelphia's Los Angeles systems, will attempt to remove certain communities from the KVMD market. KVMD states that unless Comcast and Time Warner
610
611
612
 
 
continue to carry the independent stations currently carried by Adelphia, the proposed transactions will not serve the Commission's localism policies.
613
     196. Applicants urge the Commission to disregard the issues relating to broadcast signal carriage and retransmission consent as not transaction-specific, or, in the alternative, as lacking merit. In addition, they maintain that requests by commenters to address problems generally related to the digital transition or to alter the retransmission consent negotiation process are unrelated to the instant transactions. More specifically, Applicants contend that concerns about must carry and retransmission consent are more appropriately handled on an industry-wide basis, rather than in the context of merger review. Applicants charge that KVMD's concerns relate to the statutory market modification procedures under the must-carry regime and should not be resolved in the context of the instant proceeding.
614
615
616
     197. There are currently several open Commission rulemaking proceedings in which examination of the myriad technical and policy issues surrounding the digital transition are being addressed. Further, we expect cable operators to abide by the Commission's policies regarding material degradation of a television signal.
Discussion.
     
B. Viewpoint Diversity and First Amendment Issues
     198. Several commenters assert that the transactions would reduce programming and viewpoint diversity by granting Comcast and Time Warner gatekeeper control over video and broadband platforms. Free Press maintains that the ability of Comcast or Time Warner to accept or reject advertising or other programming content based on its perceived political orientation or willingness to address controversial subjects has "a chilling effect" that deprives the public of new perspectives and ideas. Free Press and CWA/IBEW assert that the proposed transactions would result in irreparable
617
618
 
 
harm to "the First Amendment principle of diversity in communication" and would enhance the ability of Comcast and Time Warner to influence public debate in 14 of the top 25 markets. Free Press states that the Commission is responsible for preventing the concentration of the mass media and means of communication in the hands of a few private corporations and must foster diversity of content. NHMC states that regardless of the carriage of specific stations or networks, the Commission should impose conditions on the transactions that require Applicants to provide programming that responds to local community needs.
619
620
621
     199. In addition, Free Press asserts that the transactions would result in sufficient concentration in the markets for high-speed Internet, cable programming, and cable advertising to permit Comcast and Time Warner to exclude from public consideration or inhibit discussion of positions and perspectives that they oppose for economic or ideological reasons. Free Press asserts that it does not matter whether the companies' refusal to sell advertising or the decision to block e-mail from politically-oriented web addresses may be justified as a matter of editorial discretion or network management. The companies' past behavior is relevant, according to Free Press, because it demonstrates that Comcast and Time Warner already possess the power to interfere with political discourse, and the geographic concentration that will result from grant of the Applications will aggravate this effect.
622
623
624
     200. NATOA similarly states that additional regional concentration resulting from the transactions could enable Comcast and Time Warner to exercise control over political speech from local officials and prevent local voters from hearing contrary perspectives. NATOA maintains that the transactions would give Comcast and Time Warner vastly increased control over political speech, including the ability to use their media services to "bombard" local residents with "self-serving" advertisements urging acceptance of unfavorable renegotiations of franchise agreements. Lastly,
625
626
 
 
NATOA criticizes the Applicants for using their growing regional and national market power to default on their responsibilities to support PEG channels.
627
     201. In contrast, several commenters contend that the proposed transactions would increase programming diversity, and other commenters argue that Commission restrictions on the ownership of cable systems could harm the public interest.
628
     202. Similarly, Applicants reject allegations that the transactions would threaten the number of available media voices or frustrate the Commission's diversity goal. They disagree with commenters who assert that the transactions would diminish "head-to-head" competition, contending that the transactions would not reduce horizontal competition. Thus, Applicants contend, consumers would not experience a reduction in the number of MVPDs among which they could choose or the number of available "media voices." Comcast and Time Warner assert that they have "repeatedly demonstrated their clear business interest in offering a wide array of programming options to their customers and have continually offered more diversity, rather than less." Responding to commenters who fear a decline in political discourse if the transactions are approved, Applicants state that such assertions are "misguided" and that Comcast and Time Warner have long provided a considerable amount of diverse, locally oriented material through their regional programming and through VOD service.
629
630
631
632
     203. Further, Applicants assert that cable operators' speech is protected under the First Amendment and that any limit on speech in favor of viewpoints advocated by Free Press is "the very antithesis of the First Amendment." Applicants reject assertions that consolidation will stifle diversity in advertising, noting that local advertisers may also purchase advertising time from broadcast stations or
633
 
 
from non-broadcast programming networks carried on Comcast and Time Warner systems. Moreover, Applicants claim that they exercise no control over the majority of advertising content carried on their cable systems and lack the ability or desire to dominate or suppress any advertising message. In response to Free Press' claims that Applicants have declined to carry advertisements from competing ISPs, Applicants state that they have a right to decline advertisements that, they believe, will subject them to liability, that will reflect unfavorably on their companies, or that promote competing businesses.
634
635
     204. Although some commenters fear that Comcast and Time Warner will reject programming or issue advertisements and thereby stifle viewpoint diversity, to the extent that commenters are seeking a right of access to cable systems to disseminate issue advertising, neither the Communications Act nor the Commission's rules mandate such rights of access to cable systems. We decline to adopt such a right in the context of this specific transaction. To the extent commenters raise concerns about Applicants' compliance with local franchise agreements as they pertain to the establishment and operation of PEG channels, they are encouraged to raise such concerns with local franchise authorities.
Discussion.
636
637
     205. Finally, we recognize that commenters' arguments may be relevant to issues addressed in our proceeding to examine the Commission's cable horizontal ownership limits. In its , the Commission sought comment on the ability and incentive of individual cable operators or groups of cable operators to restrict the flow of programming to the consumer. The
Cable Ownership Second Further Notice
638
Cable
 
 
solicits comment on the role and weight diversity concerns should play in setting cable ownership limits.
Ownership Second Further Notice
639
     
C. Deployment of Services Based on Economic Status or Race/Ethnicity
     206. In its petition to deny, NHMC challenges Applicants' claims that the proposed transactions will accelerate the deployment of advanced telecommunications service, new cable programming services, and, generally, improved service to local communities. NHMC states that the rapid deployment of advanced service and cable programming does not serve the public interest when a large segment of the population is excluded.
640
641
     207. NHMC explains that there has been a significant history of "electronic redlining" in minority communities, particularly in the deployment of advanced services, but also in the provision and maintenance of basic services such as telephone and cable service. NHMC claims that providers have sometimes failed to provide certain services to minority communities or have provided inferior services. NHMC states that economic redlining is contrary to the public interest, adding that no service provider should deny services to a group of potential customers because of the community's ethnicity or income levels. NHMC asks that the transfer applications be denied, or, in the alternative, be conditioned to address these concerns. NHMC proposes that the Commission establish enforceable benchmarks for customer service and the deployment of service, including advanced services to minority communities. NHMC requests that if the Applications are approved, the Commission should impose conditions that ensure that the upgrade of Adelphia systems  a public interest benefit on which Comcast relies  takes place in a timely manner in minority neighborhoods.
642
643
644
645
     208. NATOA expresses similar concerns that, in upgrading the Adelphia systems, the Applicants will attempt to "cherry pick" neighborhoods for the deployment of advanced services or new
 
 
cable services by claiming that the provision of such services is not subject to the relevant Adelphia cable franchise agreement. NATOA states that where LFAs have negotiated build-out schedules with Adelphia, or with the Applicants as part of the transfer negotiation, the Commission must condition its approval of the Applications on the Applicants' compliance with these negotiated terms.
646
647
     209. Comcast and Time Warner assert that they will complete their upgrades to the Adelphia cable systems in a fair and non-discriminatory manner. In addition, both Comcast and Time Warner emphatically deny that they have engaged in or will engage in any sort of economic or other redlining. They state that both companies are deeply committed to upgrading their cable systems and improving services for all of their subscribers, including those in low income areas, and detail a number of instances in which deployment of their services, including advanced services, occurred first in minority or low income areas.
648
649
     210. The Commission is deeply committed to ensuring that broadband and advanced services are deployed to all Americans, regardless of their race, ethnicity, or income level. Deployment of facilities or the provision of services in a discriminatory manner would be contrary to section 1 of the Communications Act and the fundamental goal of the 1996 Act to bring communications services "to all Americans."
Discussion.
650
651
652
     211. Based on the record, we find no evidence that Applicants have engaged in discriminatory deployment in the past or that such behavior is likely in the future. Accordingly, we decline to deny the Applications on this basis or to condition the grant on benchmarks for deployment of service.
     
D. Potential Internet-Related Harms
     212. Several commenters assert that the proposed transactions would reduce competition in the market for residential high-speed Internet access or would facilitate discrimination by Comcast or Time Warner against unaffiliated providers of Internet content or applications. We find, however, that
653
 
 
the evidence does not demonstrate that the transactions are likely to result in anticompetitive conduct or interference with subscriber access to Internet content or applications on the part of either Time Warner or Comcast.
     213. Free Press contends that the Supreme Court's decision allows cable providers to block any content or service offered over cable broadband facilities, and that the transactions would give Time Warner and Comcast greater incentives to do so. In particular, Free Press claims that as a result of increased regional and national concentration, Comcast and Time Warner might block their customers' access to non-affiliated providers of VoIP (such as Vonage) and video programming competitors (such as TiVo or Netflix) and has blocked e-mail traffic.
Brand X
654
655
656
     214. Free Press urges the Commission to adopt ISP access and interoperability conditions similar to those imposed by the Federal Trade Commission and the Commission in connection with transaction. In the alternative, Free Press proposes that the post-transaction entities be prohibited from discriminating against providers of content, video, or voice services offered via broadband. CWA/IBEW propose that the Commission require "interoperability of network devices" and content neutrality on Comcast's and Time Warner's post-transaction broadband platforms. IBC proposes that the Commission require Comcast and Time Warner to program their set-top boxes to be Internet-accessible and to devote one cable channel to Internet access via television.
AOL-Time Warner
657
658
659
660
     215. In response to these allegations, the Applicants state that "[t]he record is entirely void of any evidence that Comcast or Time Warner have ever degraded, blocked or otherwise discriminated against any packets delivered by any IP-enabled service application." They emphasize that their desire to satisfy their subscribers and compete against other Internet providers provides sufficient incentive for them to allow their subscribers "unfettered access to all the content, services and applications that the Internet has to offer."
661
662
 
 
     216. The Applicants aver that market forces will ensure that consumers' needs are met because the Applicants face strong competition from other providers of broadband services. Further, they explain that they need flexibility to experiment with business models to respond to the dynamic marketplace and they should not be restricted in their ability to invest in and expand their networks to satisfy their customers. The Applicants also contend that direct enforcement of the Commission's broadband Policy Statement would be difficult to administer and would hamper the Applicants' efforts to resolve issues related to copyright protection, peer-to-peer applications, spam, and identity theft.
663
664
     217. . We conclude that the transactions are not likely to increase incentives for either Comcast or Time Warner to engage in conduct that is harmful to consumers or competition with respect to the delivery of Internet content, services, or applications given the competitive nature of the broadband market. We agree with Applicants that competition among providers of broadband service is vigorous. Broadband penetration has rapidly increased over the last year with more Americans relying on high speed connections to the Internet for access to news, entertainment and communication. Increased penetration has been accompanied by more vigorous competition. In turn, greater competition limits the ability of providers to engage in anticompetitive conduct, a concern of some commenters, since subscribers would have the option of switching to alternative providers if their access to content were blocked or degraded. In particular, incumbent LECs' share of the U.S. broadband market has gradually increased over the past few years through increased deployment and increasingly aggressive pricing. Statistics collected by the Commission indicate that the percentage of broadband subscribers served by cable modem service has decreased over time, from 58% in 2003 to 56% in 2005, while the percentage served by DSL has increased from 38% to 41%. Additionally, consumers have gained access to more choice in broadband providers. For example, while the percentage of zip codes served by only one broadband provider has dropped from 16.4% in 2003 to 9.3% in 2005, the percentage of zip codes served by four or more broadband providers has increased from 43.7% in 2003 to 59.7% in 2005.
Discussion
665
666
667
668
     218. This growth in the number of providers is reflected in an increasing number of subscribers to new broadband technologies. For example, cable modem service and DSL service are facing emerging competition from deployment of cellular, WiFi, and WiMAX-based competitors, and
 
 
broadband over power line (BPL) providers. Commission statistics indicate that satellite and wireless broadband lines more than doubled between June 2004 and June 2005, from 422,000 to 970,000, with BPL lines surveyed for the first time in June 2005. Some analysts project that some of these technologies have the potential to reduce further cable's share of the broadband market beyond the projected continued losses to DSL, particularly in rural areas. Press reports indicate that both DBS providers have signed distribution agreements with WildBlue Communications, Inc., a provider of satellite-broadband Internet service.
669
670
671
672
     219. The only specific factual allegation in the record concerns an instance of e-mails being inadvertently blocked by a Comcast firewall provider. In this regard, Free Press alleges that Comcast blocked e-mails generated by an organization called "After Downing Street" ("ADS"), resulting in e-mails containing a reference to ADS being blocked for one week, without notice to ADS or subscribers. Free Press asserts that, although the problem was blamed on an anti-spam measure deployed by Symantec under contract with Comcast, when ADS contacted Symantec directly, the block was immediately removed. There is no evidence that the block was motivated by subjective judgments regarding the content being transmitted or that it was anything other than the result of a legitimate spam filtering effort by Symantec. Comcast states that it uses Symantec Corporation's Brightmail software solution to filter out spam e-mails. To avoid giving "unscrupulous spam senders a roadmap for avoiding filters," Symantec does not explain how it determines which e-mails are spam. However, Symantec did explain to Comcast that it had received thousands of complaints from end users, saying that ADS e-mails were spam. Comcast stated that the e-mails were blocked "because they exhibited many signature characteristics of unwanted bulk e-mail." ISPs' blocking of spam is a common and generally approved
673
674
675
 
 
practice, and there is nothing in the record here to suggest that the blockage was other than the automatic functioning of the anti-spam software.
676
     220. There is, other than this, no record evidence indicating that Comcast or Time Warner has willfully blocked a web page or other Internet content, service, or application via its high speed Internet platforms. Commenters and petitioners do not offer evidence that Time Warner and Comcast are likely to discriminate against Internet content, services, or applications after the proposed transactions are complete; nor do they explain how the changes in ownership resulting from the transactions could increase Time Warner's or Comcast's incentive to do so. If in the future evidence arises that any company is willfully blocking or degrading Internet content, affected parties may file a complaint with the Commission.
677
     221. Moreover, the AOL-Time Warner transaction  the source of some remedies proposed by commenters  is inapposite here. In the , the Commission supplemented a condition imposed by the FTC that required AOL Time Warner to give unaffiliated ISPs open access to its cable systems. The Commission's condition required that if AOL Time Warner provided such unaffiliated open access voluntarily or otherwise, it must do so on nondiscriminatory terms. The nondiscrimination provision was premised on the Commission's view that Time Warner might leverage AOL's dominance in the narrowband ISP market into dominance of the high-speed Internet access market. As a consequence, the Commission feared that unaffiliated ISPs would be unable, or less likely, to gain nondiscriminatory access to Time Warner's systems for the purpose of offering service to Time Warner's subscribers over its cable facilities.
AOL-Time Warner Order
678
679
680
681
     222. In these transactions, however, the systems Comcast acquires from Time Warner will cease to be vertically integrated with AOL, and the Adelphia systems acquired by Comcast will remain unintegrated with AOL. Therefore, the underlying basis for imposing a nondiscrimination condition on Comcast is absent here.
682
     223. The Commission also has recently adopted a on broadband access to the Internet. This statement reflects the Commission's view that it has the jurisdiction necessary to ensure that providers of telecommunications for Internet access or Internet Protocol-enabled (IP-enabled) services are operated in a neutral manner. To ensure that broadband networks are widely deployed, open, affordable, and accessible, the Commission adopted four principles embodied in that :
Policy Statement
683
Policy Statement
(1) consumers are entitled to access the lawful Internet content of their choice; (2) consumers are entitled to run applications and use services of their choice, subject to
 
 
the needs of law enforcement; (3) consumers are entitled to connect their choice of legal devices that do not harm the network; and (4) consumers are entitled to competition among network providers, application and service providers, and content providers.
684
The Commission held out the possibility of codifying the 's principles where circumstances warrant in order to foster the creation, adoption, and use of Internet broadband content, applications, services, and attachments, and to ensure consumers benefit from the innovation that comes from competition. Accordingly, the Commission chose not to adopt rules in the . This statement contains principles against which the conduct of Comcast, Time Warner, and other broadband service providers can be measured. Nothing in the record of this proceeding, however, demonstrates that these principles are being violated by Comcast or Time Warner or that the transactions before us create economic incentives that are likely to lead to violations. Additionally, the vigorous growth of competition in the high-speed Internet access market further reduces the chances that the transactions are likely to lead to violations of the principles.
Policy Statement
Policy Statement
685
     
E. Equipment and Interactive Television Issues
     224. Free Press asserts that, post-transaction, Comcast and Time Warner would exert significant influence on the market for personal video recorders ("PVRs") and other consumer electronic devices, such as wireless routers that are designed to be attached to cable or residential broadband service. Free Press contends that, with control of more than 40% of the national cable market, Comcast and Time Warner would effectively be allowed to set the standards and terms under which manufacturers would be allowed to attach devices to cable networks. Consequently, states Free Press, competing services such as TiVo would be at a considerable disadvantage unless they acquiesce to the demands of Comcast and Time Warner regarding content control, price, or associated services.
686
687
688
     225. Free Press also raises a number of concerns regarding interests Comcast and Time Warner would acquire in companies that develop electronic program guides ("EPGs") and interactive television ("ITV") software. As a result of the transactions, Time Warner would acquire Adelphia's interest in ICTV, a privately-held interactive TV software provider. Pursuant to the transactions, Comcast would acquire Adelphia's existing interest in Sedna Patent Services, a developer of EPGs, increasing its ownership interest to 47.49%. Free Press notes that Comcast currently holds and is
689
690
 
 
increasing its financial interests in interactive TV entities that provide advanced services such as EPGs, PVRs, VOD, interactive advertising, enhanced programming, portals, and games. Free Press alleges that the combination of these assets with the enhanced regional and national market power Comcast and Time Warner would have post-transaction will give them the ability to dominate the ITV market through anticompetitive practices. Based on these assertions, Free Press seeks conditions on the grant of the Application that would constrain Applicants and their iN DEMAND partnership from "imposing exclusivity or equity as a condition of providing games or other interactive services."
691
692
693
     226. Applicants state, in response, that Free Press "fundamentally misunderstands" the process utilized by the cable industry to set standards for cable-ready devices, cable modems, and other cable-related equipment. Applicants explain that Cable Television Laboratories, Inc., a cable industry non-profit research and development consortium, develops industry specifications that are subjected to public comment and review by expert industry organizations. Applicants contend that Free Press has failed to explain how or why Comcast or Time Warner would be able to alter this established process as a result of the transactions. Moreover, Applicants state that the current marketplace for cable-ready equipment is thriving, with many consumer electronics manufacturers able to offer two-way cable-ready products, including interactive program guides, video on-demand, and other two-way cable services without the need for a set-top box. Additionally, Applicants state that Free Press is "incorrect" in asserting that competing services such as TiVo would be at a considerable disadvantage unless they acquiesce to the demands of Comcast and Time Warner regarding content control, price, or associated services. They maintain that TiVo has continued to expand with new product offerings, and that in late 2006, Comcast and TiVo plan to introduce a new set-top device with TiVo user interface. Finally, Applicants counter that Free Press has failed to provide any evidence that Comcast or Time Warner will possess market power with respect to ITV products such as VOD, DVRs, and EPGs post-transactions. They add that financial investments by Comcast and Time Warner in ITV-related entities represent "minor" investments and that many companies are investing in the competitive and dynamic ITV products market.
694
695
696
697
698
699
700
     227. We conclude that the claims of harms to the equipment, EPG, and ITV markets are speculative and not specific to the transactions under review. We do not find sufficient
Discussion.
 
 
record evidence to support the arguments raised by Free Press that the transactions would create the incentive for Applicants to impede technological developments in the emerging ITV market. Time Warner's assumption of an equity interest in ICTV is not evidence of the incentive or ability to dominate the ITV market, as Free Press speculates. ICTV is not a major ITV software provider and is not in a position to control software development in this emerging industry. Moreover, Applicants have affirmatively stated that ICTV is not currently a major ITV software provider likely to dominate in this developing market. Likewise, we are not persuaded that Comcast's financial interests in entities that develop consumer equipment, EPG, and ITV software present a transaction-specific harm. Specifically, Comcast's acquisition of Adelphia's 2.11% interest in Sedna represents only a modest increase in Comcast's existing ownership interest. The Commission will continue to monitor developments in the equipment and ITV sectors.
701
     
F. Impact on Employment Practices
     228. NHMC states that Comcast has made "scant progress" in its hiring of Hispanic employees and that, despite having 50% turnover in the last three years, Comcast has chosen not to add a Hispanic representative to its board of directors. NHMC notes that Hispanic employment at Comcast lags behind the national average and that, as of 2002, only 3% of Comcast's officials and managers were Hispanic. Accordingly, NHMC requests that the Commission adopt conditions requiring Comcast to submit quarterly reports on its national, regional, and local recruitment and employment of minorities and to increase its employment of minorities in decision-making positions over time.
702
703
704
     229. Applicants state that no commenter has presented any facts that would justify a "wholly unprecedented" intervention by the Commission into the details of the employment relationship between Comcast and its workers. Applicants contend that Comcast provides equal opportunities in employment and is succeeding in its efforts to establish a diverse workforce. Applicants also describe several Comcast initiatives that highlight its commitment to minority hiring and its compliance with the Commission's Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Rules. Applicants reject the claim that Comcast's employment of Hispanics lags when compared to national statistics. Applicants assert that
705
706
707
 
 
imposition of quarterly reporting conditions to monitor Comcast's minority recruiting efforts would be unreasonable and unnecessary. Finally, Applicants assert that Comcast is complying with all of the Commission's EEO rules for MVPDs, including the reporting requirements, and that NHMC has failed to demonstrate why more should be required of Comcast.
708
     230. The Commission has administered regulations governing the EEO responsibilities of cable television operators since 1972. These regulations prohibit discrimination in hiring on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, age, or gender. Moreover, they require cable operators and other MVPDs to reach out in recruiting new employees to ensure that all qualified individuals have an opportunity to apply for job vacancies,a requirement the Commission has held to mean that MVPDs must widely disseminate information concerning all job vacancies. Specifically, the Commission's EEO outreach rules have three prongs that MVPDs must satisfy: (1) they must widely disseminate information concerning each full time job vacancy, except for vacancies filled in exigent circumstances; (2) they must provide notice of each full-time job vacancy to recruitment organizations that have requested such notice; and (3) they must, depending on the staff size and market size of the MVPD employment unit, complete either one or two longer-term recruitment initiatives each year (., mentoring programs, scholarships, or internships).
Discussion.
709
710
711
712
e.g
713
     231. NHMC fails to raise a substantial and material question of fact regarding Comcast's compliance with the Commission's cable EEO outreach rules. The petition to deny presents no specific evidence regarding Comcast's alleged failure to "make progress" in its hiring of Hispanic employees. NHMC does not assert that Comcast has neglected to disseminate widely its employment vacancy information to attract qualified applicants. Nor does it assert that Comcast has failed to send vacancy notices to organizations that have requested such information or that it has failed to initiate and complete longer-term outreach measures as required by the Commission's rules. Comcast has described several measures that, generally, appear to indicate compliance with the EEO rules. It participates annually in job fairs to disseminate information about employment opportunities at Comcast; it works with organizations that can assist it in reaching Hispanic professionals seeking employment; and it has established the Comcast University as a longer term initiative to provide training and instructional support to Comcast employees seeking management and promotional opportunities at the company. Based on the record
 
 
before us, we can discern no reason to impose reporting conditions to monitor Comcast's outreach and recruiting efforts. Thus, we deny NHMC's request for reporting conditions or any other conditions relevant to its EEO rule compliance.
714
     
G. Character Qualifications
     232. Two commenters allege that Comcast does not possess the requisite character qualifications, as required under section 310(d) of the Act, to hold the Adelphia licenses. CWA challenges Comcast's character qualifications based on alleged violations of the National Labor Relations Act ("NLRA"). CWA charges that Comcast has engaged in a concerted campaign to deny its employees their legal rights, under the NLRA, to union representation and collective bargaining for wages, benefits, and working conditions. According to CWA, statements have been made to employees at various Comcast systems that employees at the transferred cable systems will have no guarantee of employment after the transfer. CWA asserts that the provision of quality telecommunications service requires a skilled, experienced, and well-trained workforce and that the Commission should adopt several conditions to ensure such a workforce is preserved if it approves the transactions. CWA urges the Commission to impose a condition to ensure that employees will not be asked or forced to reapply for their jobs and that workers in transferred franchises will not lose their jobs as a result of ownership changes. In addition, CWA asks that we require the new employer to respect and recognize the collective bargaining status of its employees that existed prior to the transfer, retain current compensation for transferred employees based on the transactions, and permit transferred workers to participate in Comcast and Time Warner benefit programs. Finally, CWA asserts that Comcast and Time Warner should be required to recognize the existing contracts of employees with collective bargaining agreements and abide by the "spirit of the law."
715
716
717
718
719
     233. TCR maintains that, in reviewing the character qualifications of an applicant or licensee, the Commission should determine whether the applicant has violated antitrust or other laws protecting competition. TCR alleges that Comcast is using its market power to discriminate and act in an anti-competitive manner by refusing to negotiate with TCR and discriminating in favor of its affiliated
 
 
RSNs. TCR has formally raised its concerns regarding Comcast's refusal to carry its regional sports networks, MASN, with the Commission in a program carriage complaint.
720
721
     234. Responding to CWA, Comcast asserts that it respects workers' rights to organize and adds that the company will continue to abide by relevant labor laws and the current or future terms of bargaining unit agreements it has with IBEW and CWA. Comcast pledges to "respect existing contracts" with Adelphia employees following the proposed transactions. In its view, employees should have the freedom to choose whether to work in a union environment, and as a result of its corporate policies, including benefits, wages, and job enrichment programs, Comcast employees frequently opt against unionizing.
722
723
724
     235. Applicants contend that the Commission should not act on allegations raising labor law issues, as such allegations are better left to the NLRB, which is tasked with resolving claims of unfair labor practices. They state that the matters in litigation before the NLRB do not form a basis for a character qualifications issue and that the cited cases are "isolated incidents" that do not reflect Comcast's general corporate policy and practices. Applicants assert that many of the incidences raised by CWA in its comments have already been adjudicated, and, in most instances, decisions were rendered in Comcast's favor. Accordingly, Applicants urge the Commission to deny the requests to impose labor-oriented conditions.
725
726
727
     236. Comcast asserts that TCR "ignores longstanding Commission precedent" that merger transactions are not the appropriate fora for disposition of complaint proceedings. Comcast states that inasmuch as TCR's carriage complaint mirrors its arguments and request for conditions in the instant matter, consideration of those carriage issues in this proceeding would be duplicative. Nonetheless,
728
729
 
 
Comcast contends that TCR has failed to prove that post-transactions Comcast will possess sufficient market power as a distributor of RSN programming in the Baltimore/Washington area to force MASN to exit the market.
730
     237. Pursuant to statute, the Commission evaluates the "citizenship, character, financial, technical, and other qualifications" of the Applicants when conducting its analysis of a proposed transaction. As part of this assessment, the Commission examines any alleged Commission-related misconduct, ., violations of the Communications Act or the Commission's rules and policies, as well as other behavior. Generally, the Commission considers three types of adjudicated non-Commission related misconduct: (1) felony convictions; (2) fraudulent misrepresentations to governmental units; and (3) violations of antitrust or other laws protecting competition.
Discussion.
731
i.e
732
733
734
     238. The character qualifications allegations raised by commenters do not raise a substantial and material question of fact warranting designation for hearing; nor have commenters justified imposition of labor-oriented conditions. Commenters have not raised issues concerning Commission-related conduct or the types of adjudicated non-Commission misconduct relevant under the
Character Policy Statement.
735
 
 
     239. Further, Comcast has stated emphatically that it will abide by labor laws, as well as current and future bargaining unit agreements with CWA and IBEW. In addition, Comcast pledges to comply with current contracts with Adelphia employees post-transaction. Time Warner states that there is no requirement that Adelphia employees must "reapply" for their jobs, and that it intends to bargain in good faith with the bargaining representative at any locations "where such obligation applies." We see no reason not to accept Comcast's and Time Warner's good faith representations. Moreover, the respective LFAs have not alleged that union labor or other employment issues at local cable systems have resulted in poor or inadequate customer service to their customers. In the absence of such concerns, we see no reason to impose specific conditions regarding bargaining unit employees.
736
737
738
     240. We note that commenters have other, more appropriate, avenues for obtaining relief regarding these non-transaction specific issues. Indeed, it appears that CWA and TCR have appropriately resorted to other fora for redress of their disputes with Comcast. We note CWA's and Comcast's recitation of several adjudicated NLRB decisions. Further, as previously noted, TCR has filed with the Commission a program carriage complaint that seeks individualized relief from Comcast's alleged refusal to carry TCR's regional sports networks. The Media Bureau will address TCR's complaint in a separate proceeding.
739
VIII. ANALYSIS OF PUBLIC INTEREST BENEFITS
     241. The Applicants state that the main benefit of the transactions is that they will result in faster deployment of advanced services on the Adelphia systems. More specifically, the Applicants contend that the proposed transactions would produce the following four public interest benefits: (1) accelerated deployment of advanced digital video services, VoIP service, and high-speed Internet service to former Adelphia subscribers; (2) enhanced competition and pro-consumer efficiencies achieved through increased "geographic rationalization," or clustering of Applicants' respective cable systems; (3) the resolution of Adelphia's bankruptcy proceedings; and (4) the unwinding of Comcast's interests in TWE and TWC.
     242. Although we reject some benefits proffered by the Applicants, we find that the proposed transactions will produce public interest benefits. First, we find that the transactions likely will accelerate the deployment of VoIP service and advanced video services in former Adelphia service areas. Second,
 
 
while increased clustering may result in certain efficiencies and cost savings, we find that Applicants have failed to sufficiently quantify the cost savings or adequately explain how the cost savings will flow through to consumers. We also find that the Applicants have not demonstrated that increased clustering will enhance competition with DBS providers and LECs to the benefit of consumers. Therefore, we do not give weight to these claims. Third, we find that the transactions will facilitate the resolution of Adelphia's bankruptcy proceedings. Finally, we conclude that the unwinding of Comcast's interests in TWE and TWC is not a cognizable benefit, because it effectuates compliance with a prior Commission order. We discuss in detail our findings below.
     
A. Analytical Framework
     243. In addition to assessing the potential public interest harms of a proposed transaction, the Commission also evaluates whether the transaction is likely to produce direct public interest benefits. Then, the Commission must determine whether the potential public interest benefits outweigh the potential harms, such that approval of the associated license transfers may be deemed to serve the public interest. For example, efficiencies created by a proposed transaction can mitigate anticompetitive harms if they enhance a firm's ability and incentive to compete and therefore result in lower prices, improved quality, enhanced service, or new products. Under Commission precedent, the Applicants bear the burden of demonstrating that the potential public interest benefits of the proposed transactions outweigh the potential public interest harms.
740
741
742
743
     244. The Commission applies several criteria in deciding whether a claimed benefit should be considered and weighed against potential harms. First, the claimed benefit must be transaction-specific. This means that the claimed benefit must be likely to be accomplished as a result of the transaction but unlikely to be realized by other means that entail fewer anticompetitive effects. Second, the claimed benefit must be verifiable. Because much of the information relating to the potential benefit of a transaction is in the sole possession of the Applicants, they are required to provide sufficient supporting evidence so that the Commission can verify the likelihood and magnitude of each claimed benefit. Speculative benefits that cannot be verified will be discounted or dismissed. Benefits that are expected to occur only in the distant future are inherently more speculative than benefits that are expected to occur
744
745
746
 
 
more immediately. The magnitude of benefits is calculated net of the cost of achieving them. Third, benefits must flow through to consumers.
747
748
     245. Finally, the Commission applies a "sliding scale approach" to its ultimate evaluation of benefit claims. Under this sliding scale approach, where potential harms appear both substantial and likely, the Applicants' demonstration of claimed benefits also must reveal a higher degree of magnitude and likelihood than the Commission would otherwise demand.
749
     
B. Claimed Benefits
          
1. Deployment of Advanced Services on Adelphia's Systems
     246. Comcast and Time Warner claim that they would upgrade Adelphia's systems to enable the delivery of new or improved advanced services and to speed and expand the rollout of advanced services that already have been introduced. These services include (1) advanced video services (digital cable, HDTV, DVR, VOD, and SVOD); (2) VoIP service; and (3) high-speed Internet service.
750
     247. The Applicants claim that the transactions would allow Time Warner and Comcast to bring their technological leadership to Adelphia's cable systems and that their track records for upgrading and operating broadband networks should serve as proof of their commitment to deliver the same results for Adelphia subscribers. The Applicants provide examples of their past accomplishments, stating, for example, that Comcast spent nearly $8 billion to upgrade systems it acquired from AT&T Broadband in 2002. In addition, Comcast asserts that it exceeded its projected timetable for the upgrades and deployments of advanced services on the AT&T Broadband systems. Time Warner states that it has invested $5 billion since 1996 on plant-related rebuilds and that it was the first MSO to complete a digital upgrade of all of its cable systems, finishing in 1991.
751
752
753
754
     248. Applicants compare Comcast's, Time Warner's, and Adelphia's cable systems, penetration rates, and services in order to demonstrate Adelphia's sub-par performance. For instance, they note that Adelphia lags behind Comcast and Time Warner in the provision of two-way service offerings and in penetration levels for high-speed Internet, VoIP service, and advanced video services.
755
 
 
According to Time Warner, approximately 15% of the existing Adelphia plant to be acquired by Time Warner has not been upgraded to 750 MHz. Time Warner and Comcast claim to provide services to over 99% of their subscribers on cable systems with 750 MHz capacity and two-way capabilities. According to Applicants, Adelphia's basic cable penetration rate of 48.1% lags behind Comcast's 52.6% and Time Warner's 56.7% penetration rates. Applicants state that only 2.8% of Adelphia's basic tier subscribers subscribe to HDTV service, while 6.7% of Comcast's and 5.3% of Time Warner's basic tier subscribers subscribe to HDTV service. According to Applicants, Adelphia has 126,000 DVR subscribers compared to Comcast's 575,000 and Time Warner's 998,000. In addition, Applicants state that Adelphia offers VOD to 60% of its subscribers, compared to approximately 90% and 100% for Comcast and Time Warner, respectively.
756
757
758
759
760
     249. Among the advanced video services Comcast and Time Warner plan to offer on Adelphia systems is local VOD. Comcast's and Time Warner's local VOD offerings include content such as high school and college sports; educational programs and special events, often presented in partnership with schools and community organizations; PSAs; local news; and political programming. Currently, Time Warner offers local VOD programming to virtually all of its cable divisions, with an average of 50 hours of local content per week. Adelphia does not offer local VOD content to its subscribers and does not have any plans to initiate such service in the near future.
761
762
763
 
 
     250. The Applicants also claim that they would provide Adelphia subscribers with VoIP service. Comcast states that it currently can provide its VoIP service, Comcast Digital Voice, to 19 million households in 30 markets and is on track to deploy the service to approximately 32 million homes by the end of 2006. Comcast increased the availability of its Digital Voice Service by seven million households since November 2005. As of September 30, 2005, Time Warner had launched its VoIP service, Digital Phone, in all of its 31 divisions. As a result, it now provides service to 854,000 subscribers and can provide service to three quarters of homes passed. Time Warner claims to be adding thousands of additional subscribers per month. By comparison, Adelphia does not offer cable telephony to its subscribers and has cancelled plans to launch service on its own.
764
765
766
767
     251. Finally, Applicants claim that they would improve high-speed Internet service for Adelphia customers and increase penetration rates in Adelphia's service areas. According to Applicants, while Adelphia offers high-speed Internet service to 96.2% of its subscribers, only 14.4% of homes passed subscribe to the service. In contrast, Comcast's penetration is 18.3%, and Time Warner's is 20.8%. Time Warner states that it currently has over 4.3 million high-speed Internet subscribers and recently launched a redesigned version of its Road Runner service and faster download speeds in all divisions. Time Warner's standard service offers a downstream speed of 5 Mbps, and its premium service offers speeds up to 8 Mbps. Comcast states that it currently has 8.1 million customers and that service is available to 40 million homes. Comcast's high-speed service offers speeds up to 6 Mbps downstream and 768 kbps upstream.
768
769
770
     252. In support of their claims, Applicants provide details regarding projected investments and timetables for the completion of upgrades and the rollout of services. Comcast and Time Warner state that they have earmarked $800 million collectively to upgrade the less advanced Adelphia cable systems. Specifically, Comcast states that it has set aside over $150 million over the next two years for capital improvements to the Adelphia systems, and Time Warner has allocated $650 million costs to be invested in the systems it acquires. Time Warner indicates that $275 million will be devoted to upgrading
771
 
 
Adelphia systems to 750 MHz. Comcast expects that most of the set-aside capital will be spent on "upgrade revisits," which is additional work that must be completed on systems that Adelphia considers upgraded, but Comcast considers insufficient, for the delivery of advanced services. Comcast claims that a vast majority of the expenditures would be for upgrades and system improvements that currently are not contemplated by Adelphia's management. In total, Comcast estimates that it will need to invest nearly in the current Adelphia systems to deliver advanced services and maintain these systems at Comcast's standards.
772
773
774
[REDACTED]
775
     253. The Applicants claim that some of Adelphia's current 750 MHz systems need to be "hardened" in order to provide VoIP service, which will require the installation of new network equipment and other upgrades necessary to bring the Adelphia systems up to industry standards. Time Warner plans to commence upgrading Adelphia systems within 120 to 180 days post-closing. Within 90 to 180 days, Time Warner hopes to launch Digital Phone service, starting with Adelphia systems that already are upgraded to 750 MHz and in close proximity to Time Warner's existing operations, where it has the infrastructure, office operations, backbone network, and connectivity to incumbent LEC rate centers already in place. Within 120 to 180 days, Time Warner plans to roll out VOD service on Adelphia systems that are in close proximity to existing Time Warner systems and are currently VOD-capable. Time Warner plans to initiate the service on those Adelphia systems, because the infrastructure and resources are already in place. Time Warner does not indicate when the upgrades will be completed. Comcast has not indicated when it plans to launch telephony service or VOD in Adelphia's service areas. It states, however, that it plans to invest to upgrade Adelphia systems for cable telephony and projects that telephony service will be substantially deployed in 2007. Comcast states that it has designated in capital expenditures to upgrade and deploy VOD services but does not indicate when VOD will be deployed on Adelphia's systems.
776
777
[REDACTED]
778
[REDACTED]
779
     254. Commenting in support of the Application, many non-profit organizations echo predictions that Applicants would offer new and better services to Adelphia's subscribers and that they would improve conditions in Adelphia cable markets. DIRECTV asserts, however, that none of the claimed benefits regarding improved services to Adelphia's subscribers are transaction-specific, because they could be achieved by any of the parties who bid in the bankruptcy court's asset auction. Thus, DIRECTV concludes, unless the Applicants are claiming that they can offer better service to Adelphia subscribers and have a better track record than other bankruptcy bidders, the claimed benefits are not
780
 
 
transaction- specific. Citing the , DIRECTV further claims that we cannot consider the Applicants' set-aside capital earmarked for improvements as a benefit, because Adelphia had other options for exiting bankruptcy.
781
News Corp.-Hughes Order
782
     255. The Applicants reject DIRECTV's objections, claiming that any comparisons between the Applicants and other potential acquirers of Adelphia are barred by section 310(d) of the Communications Act. Further, the Applicants assert that it is improper for the Commission to consider whether other potential bidders have a better track record in deploying advanced services. The Applicants state that the Commission must focus on the claimed benefits submitted in the Application without reference to whether other bankruptcy bidders could deliver the same benefits.
783
     256. . As the Commission has stated many times, the deployment of advanced video services is a recognized public interest benefit. In reviewing previous transactions, the Commission also has found that accelerated deployment of high-speed Internet service and the provision of competitive, facilities-based telephony service are cognizable public interest benefits. In this case, we have considered whether Adelphia subscribers are more likely than not to obtain additional or superior advanced video services, VoIP service, and high-speed Internet service post-transaction or to obtain these services more quickly than would otherwise be the case. Thus, we find it more likely than not that the proposed transactions will have a positive impact on the deployment of certain advanced services to Adelphia subscribers.
Discussion
784
785
     257. We also find it likely that Comcast and Time Warner will improve the quality and availability of advanced services on Adelphia's systems and that Adelphia subscribers will benefit from the transactions in this regard. Comcast's and Time Warner's timely deployment of advanced services on their own systems, especially those systems that Comcast acquired from AT&T Broadband, suggests that they will further deploy advanced video services, facilities-based telephony service, and high-speed Internet service on Adelphia's systems. We also find that the Applicants have provided sufficient information to conclude that the upgrades likely will occur in the near future. In addition, Comcast and Time Warner have quantified the investments they will make in order to deliver these benefits.
     258. In particular, we find the proposed transactions likely will result in accelerated deployment of VoIP service in Adelphia service areas. Comcast and Time Warner currently offer VoIP service, and both have plans to continue their rollouts. Comcast already has launched VoIP service and projects that it will be fully deployed on its own systems in 2006. As noted above, while Comcast has not stated when it will initiate upgrades and deployment, it projects that VoIP service will be substantially deployed on the acquired Adelphia systems in 2007. Time Warner's Digital Phone service has been launched in all of its cable divisions and is available to over three-quarters of homes passed. Time Warner also states that it will begin upgrades and initiate deployment of VoIP service in three to six
786
787
 
 
months. In comparison, Adelphia does not offer or have plans to offer cable telephony to any of its customers.
788
     259. We also find that the transactions likely would accelerate the completion of upgrades on Adelphia's systems and the deployment of advanced video services. In particular, we find it likely that the Applicants would be able to provide local VOD content sooner than Adelphia could absent the transactions. Adelphia does not offer local VOD currently and has no plans to provide this type of programming in the near future. At the same time, however, we find that Adelphia, on its own, is continuing to make system improvements and is providing its customers with some of the same advanced video services as Comcast and Time Warner provide. Thus, we find it likely that Adelphia, on its own, could continue to provide improvements in its advanced video service offerings. It is likely, however, that large-scale upgrades and service improvements would be delayed significantly due to the bankruptcy proceedings. Thus, the transactions likely would accelerate the system upgrades and deployment of new and/or improved services. Although the Applicants have not given definitive time tables for initiating and completing the planned system upgrades and deployment of new and advanced services, we expect that Comcast and Time Warner have sufficient incentives to carry out the proposed improvements in a timely manner, because doing so serves the goal of maximizing revenues and competing effectively with LECs and DBS providers.
789
790
     260. We are unable to conclude from the information submitted in the record, however, that Comcast and Time Warner will provide significantly better or higher quality high-speed Internet service in Adelphia service areas. While Comcast and Time Warner offer examples of their efforts to innovate and improve their high-speed Internet service offerings, neither provides specific plans to initiate better service or increase penetration rates on Adelphia's systems. Nor do Applicants explain how their high-speed Internet service is superior to Adelphia's. Unlike VoIP service, which Adelphia does not offer, as of year-end 2004, Adelphia offered high-speed Internet service to approximately 97% of homes passed by its plant. In addition, Adelphia's current high-speed Internet offerings appear to be comparable to Time Warner's and Comcast's. In 2005, Adelphia increased its subscribership for high-speed Internet service by 24% to 1.6 million. Therefore, we do not give weight to the claim that the transactions will result in faster deployment, higher penetration rates, or better quality high-speed Internet service.
791
792
793
 
 
     261. With respect to DIRECTV's objections, we find that the deployment of advanced services is a transaction-specific benefit. We recognize that Adelphia had other options for exiting bankruptcy, and that these other options potentially could yield transaction-specific consumer benefits. We note, however, that the Commission does not have to find that a proposed transaction or merger is the only means to achieve a claimed benefit. Instead, we must determine whether a transaction will more likely than not result in the claimed benefit. When determining whether a proposed benefit is transaction-specific, we ask whether the benefit likely will be accomplished in the absence of either the proposed transaction or another means having comparable or lesser anticompetitive effects. For instance, we consider alternative business solutions available to the merging firms, such as divestiture, licensing, or joint ventures. We do not measure the proposed benefits of a pending transaction against the potential harms and benefits resulting from an alternative transaction. If we did, we would be required to compare all proposed mergers with conjectural applications not before the Commission. Such analysis would be inconsistent with section 310 of the Act and is beyond the scope of our analytical framework for evaluating proposed transactions. DIRECTV also suggests that the Commission should disregard the Applicants' track record for providing services, because they did not rank the highest in customer service in various surveys. We reject the notion that the Applicants must show that they are the best performing cable operators in order for us to consider their track records for completing upgrades, deploying new services, and customer service responses when determining whether a claimed benefit likely would materialize or would flow through to consumers.
794
795
796
797
798
799
     262. We likewise disagree with DIRECTV that the capital set-aside for upgrades is not transaction-specific. DIRECTV's reliance on the is misplaced. In , News claimed that Hughes, as a wholly owned subsidiary of GM, had a limited ability to attract outside finances because it had issued only a tracking stock, and its parent company was not fully financing Hughes. As a claimed benefit to the proposed transaction, News Corp. suggested that Hughes more easily could seek outside financing because it would no longer be a subsidiary of GM. The Commission found the proposed benefit not to be transaction-specific, because there were other means besides the proposed merger for Hughes to gain access to capital. For instance, the Commission noted that GM could have split-off Hughes so the company had a separately traded stock. News Corp. was not proposing to invest capital into the company or promising specific outside financing as a direct result of the transaction. Here, in contrast, as a direct result of the transactions at issue, Applicants, combined, are proposing to invest between $800 million and to undertake upgrades and advanced services rollouts. Given Adelphia's bankruptcy, it is not apparent that other sources of capital are readily available. We find, therefore, that the capital contributions proposed by the Applicants are transaction-specific and that the benefit would not be likely to occur, or would not occur as quickly, absent the proposed transactions.
News Corp.-Hughes Order
News Corp.-Hughes
800
[REDACTED]
801
 
 
     263. As a condition to the merger, commenters ask the Commission to monitor Comcast's and Time Warner's deployment of advanced services, particularly in rural and minority areas, to determine whether the transactions would have any negative impact on consumers, workers, or communities, and whether the upgrades and deployments happen in a timely manner. As we have stated, we find that the transactions likely will accelerate system upgrades and deployment of new and/or improved services. In particular, we find that the transactions likely will result in the availability of a new telephony service in the Adelphia service areas, an offering that would compete with service provided by incumbent LECs. We are satisfied that the Applicants have demonstrated their intention to initiate the upgrades and implement new services. Both Comcast and Time Warner have submitted various upgrade and deployment plans, which lend support to their assurances that they intend to provide new services in the near future. In addition, Comcast and Time Warner repeatedly have assured the Commission of their intentions to implement advanced video services and VoIP service in a timely manner. We have no reason to conclude that these representations were not made in accordance with the Commission's candor and truthfulness requirements. Finally, market forces and shareholder expectations provide significant incentives for the Applicants to deliver on the promised new services. Accordingly, we deny CWA's request to condition our approval of the license transfers.
802
     264. We have observed over the years that MSOs have engaged in the strategy of "clustering," whereby many of the largest MSOs have concentrated their operations by acquiring cable systems in regions where the MSO already has a significant presence, while giving up other holdings scattered across the country. This strategy is accomplished, as it is in the transactions under review here, through purchases and sales of cable systems, or by system "swapping" among MSOs. The proposed transactions would result in more clustered operations for Comcast in Pennsylvania; Minnesota; Southern Florida; the mid-Atlantic region (Washington, D.C., Maryland, and Virginia); and New England, and for Time Warner in Western New York, Ohio, Texas, Southern California, Maine, North Carolina, and South Carolina. Applicants claim that the increased clustering of their respective cable systems resulting from the transactions would lead to public interest benefits.
803
804
     265. First, Applicants claim that by further clustering their cable systems through the Adelphia acquisition and cable system swaps between Comcast and Time Warner, Comcast and Time Warner would be better positioned to compete effectively against DBS providers for video and Internet access services and against LECs for the provision of the "voice-video-data triple play." According to Applicants, increased clustering would give each Applicant larger regional footprints, ones more closely approaching the national footprints of the DBS providers and the regional footprints of the major incumbent LECs. Applicants claim that their newly enlarged footprints would create "a more robust competitive environment in response to the DBS industry's national marketing campaigns." The Applicants also contend that enhancing their footprints is crucial to enabling them to compete effectively
805
806
807
 
 
with LECs, who are beginning to provide facilities-based video services in conjunction with their current voice and Internet service offerings.
808
     266. Second, Applicants contend that the location of the existing Time Warner, Comcast, and Adelphia cable properties present a unique opportunity to achieve efficiencies and enhance the rollout of advanced services to consumers currently served by more fragmented systems. In particular, Applicants claim clustering would create overhead efficiencies, more efficient deployment of management and other employees over larger, more contiguous service areas, and infrastructure efficiencies, such as consolidation of head-end facilities. Applicants expect to provide more efficient service to consumers through in-house technical assistance located closer to the communities of the acquired systems, improved coordination of technicians and truck fleets through centralized facilities, and enhanced responsiveness of customer account executives. Time Warner estimates that its transaction-related cost savings would be in the range of $200 million, principally from the elimination of redundant corporate and regional operations and reductions in programming costs. Applicants state that the efficiencies would produce consumer benefits through increased investment in programming and cable infrastructure upgrades. Neither Applicant attempts to quantify the flow-through of these benefits to consumers.
809
810
811
812
     267. Applicants claim that enhanced clustering would create marketing efficiencies that are particularly important with respect to the rollout of new services that require aggressive and expensive marketing campaigns to educate and attract consumers. Applicants state that the advertising and marketing efficiencies would enable them to improve penetration and retention rates and would allow them to mount cost-effective advertising campaigns in competition with DBS providers that offer service nationally and LECs that provide service in expansive regional footprints. For instance, Time Warner states that it currently serves less than 10% of the Los Angeles DMA, making it inefficient to purchase local mass media advertising to generate awareness of its services. As a result, Time Warner states, it currently does not purchase radio, print, or television advertising in the Los Angeles market. Ultimately, according to Time Warner, the mass marketing and additional advertising made possible by increased clustering would lead to greater consumer awareness of competitive offerings, more vigorous competition, and greater choice.
813
814
815
816
     268. DIRECTV contends that any benefits resulting from the clustering achieved by the exchange of cable systems between Comcast and Time Warner should be discounted, because these changes in ownership are not related to the acquisition of the Adelphia systems. Further, DIRECTV contests Applicants' claim that the cable system swaps are necessary to improve service for Adelphia subscribers or improve services on existing systems. DIRECTV also contends that the Applicants have
817
818
 
 
failed to validate, quantify, or show how increased clustering would provide a benefit that would flow through to consumers. In support of its position, DIRECTV submits an analysis that studies whether there is a relationship between the size of the Applicants' clusters and the availability or penetration rates of advanced services. DIRECTV contends that if additional clustering benefits consumers, then the analysis should find less availability and lower penetration rates of advanced services in smaller cable systems than in larger clustered systems. The analysis concludes, however, that the availability of advanced services, such as HSD and telephony service, is often the same for Comcast's and Time Warner's small systems as it is for larger clusters, and therefore it concludes that there is no systematic relationship between the availability of advanced services and system or region size. In addition, DIRECTV's analysis does not find a statistically significant relationship between penetration rates and cluster size.
819
820
821
822
823
824
     269. In response, the Applicants acknowledge that the two aspects of the proposed transactions theoretically are independent of each other, but maintain that neither the swaps without the acquisitions, nor the acquisitions without the swaps, would produce the benefits that these transactions combined would produce. The Applicants explain that it is the "unique convergence of the location of systems currently owned by the Applicants and the systems owned by Adelphia" that would produce the described efficiencies and benefits.
825
826
     270. The Applicants also dispute DIRECTV's econometric study, arguing that the study misses the point, because they are not claiming that clustering alone will lead to the more rapid deployment of advanced services. Thus, the Applicants assert that the regressions testing the relationship between penetration rates and the size of cable system clusters do not undermine their claim that the transactions will benefit Adelphia subscribers by resulting in accelerated deployment of advanced services. In addition, the Applicants question DIRECTV's methodology, claiming that the study is too
827
 
 
imprecise and underdeveloped to support the conclusions. The Applicants state that the study "reveals only that clusters of different sizes have varying penetration rates and availability levels for certain advanced services." They contend that "[s]tanding alone, this showing is meaningless, as the study never makes a serious attempt to explain why these differences occur." In addition, the Applicants state that the relevant issue is not a comparison of the availability and penetration rates of advanced services among different Comcast and Time Warner systems, but a comparison of availability and penetration rates for Adelphia systems before and after being integrated with Comcast and Time Warner's existing operations.
828
829
830
     271. The Commission has noted previously that clustering can have both procompetitive and anticompetitive effects. The Commission also has found that the potential benefits from clustering, including marketing efficiencies and the deployment of facilities-based telephony and Internet access services, outweigh any potential anticompetitive effects of clustering on competition in product markets such as local programming or advertising. In addition, the Commission has noted that clustering can increase economies of scale and size, and thus enable cable operators to offer an increased variety of broadband services at reduced prices to customers in geographic areas that are larger than single cable franchise areas. Therefore, the Commission has noted that clustering can make cable operators more effective competitors to LECs whose local service areas are usually much larger than a single cable franchise area. The Commission also has stated that clustering can provide a means of improving efficiency, reducing costs, and attracting increased advertising. On the other hand, the Commission has noted that clustering can present a barrier to entry for the most likely potential overbuilder (., an adjacent cable operator). Moreover, as DIRECTV notes in its comments, the Commission has stated in its that "[w]hile clustering may help reduce programming and other costs as claimed by commenters, [the Commission's] findings show that these lower costs are not being passed along to subscribers in the form of lower monthly rates."
Discussion.
831
832
833
834
i.e
835
Competition Report,
836
 
 
     272. We agree with the Applicants and reiterate the Commission's previous findings that clustering can lead to certain efficiencies and cost savings. We find, however, that the Applicants have failed to provide sufficient supporting evidence for us to verify and quantify the claimed efficiencies and cost savings or to determine the extent to which they would flow through to consumers. Although Time Warner claims that the cost savings would amount to $200 million, it fails to explain how the figure was derived or provide any other support for this figure. Nor do the Applicants explain why the transactions would lead to certain savings, such as savings in programming costs. Comcast has not claimed that the transactions would result in any operational cost savings for the company at all.
837
838
     273. Although additional clustering may enable Comcast and Time Warner to increase their marketing efforts in a more cost-efficient manner, or perhaps, to participate more fully in national marketing campaigns, the Applicants have not claimed that it would create cognizable benefits, such as reduced prices, enhanced service offerings, or improved service quality. Nor have they claimed that the advertising and marketing efficiencies would spur such beneficial responses from DBS providers or LECs. If potential cost savings would only reduce the Applicants' costs and would not result in reduced prices or other benefits to consumers, than the alleged cost saving are not a cognizable benefit of the proposed transaction.
     274. Moreover, DIRECTV correctly asserts, the Commission is more likely to discount claimed efficiencies if they result in a reduction of fixed costs rather than marginal costs, because reductions in fixed costs are unlikely to lead to a reduction in prices that could counteract the potential anticompetitive effects of a transaction. As the Commission has stated previously, benefits generally are considered cognizable only to the extent that they can mitigate any anticompetitive effects of a transaction. Here, the Applicants have not distinguished, nor is it clear, whether the claimed cost savings in marketing would result in a reduction in marginal cost or a reduction in fixed cost. Therefore, we cannot determine whether it is likely that the reductions in advertising costs would likely be passed on to consumers. Thus, while more cost-effective advertising campaigns may financially benefit the Applicants by decreasing their costs, it is unclear whether they would result in a net increase in consumer surplus, which can be balanced against any anticompetitive effects of a transaction. What is important is the extent to which these lower costs can lead to lower prices, not whether they lead to lower cost structure for the Applicants.
839
840
841
842
     275. We also are not persuaded that the transactions would lead to a more competitive environment for the provision of the triple play of services  video, voice, and data. Cable operators are currently the only service providers offering the triple play package on a widespread basis. DBS
 
 
providers currently do not offer facilities-based telephony service; thus, cable is competing with DBS providers only for a package of video and Internet services. While two LEC providers, Verizon and AT&T, recently entered the video services market in a few communities around the country, for the most part LECs are currently providing video programming services primarily through agreements with DBS providers. Thus, the Applicants have failed to show that further clustering is necessary to effectively compete with DBS providers and LECs in the provision of triple play services. By their own admission, Comcast and Time Warner are leaders in their industry for the provision of advanced video services and have consistently upgraded their systems over the years to provide new and better quality services. Accordingly, the Commission does not find that the increased clustering will result in a better competitive environment for video programming service. Therefore, we cannot give weight to this claimed benefit.
843
844
845
 
 
     276. As for the deployment of telephony service, we reiterate the Commission's previous findings that clustering could better position cable operators as potential providers of the service. As noted in Section VIII.B.1, to the extent that the transactions, through clustering or through the proposed upgrades and deployment schedules, result in the addition of competitive, facilities-based telephony service in Adelphia service areas or to unserved areas where Applicants currently operate cable systems, we find that consumers could benefit.
     277. We reject DIRECTV's contention that we should ignore potential benefits from the increased clustering that are attributable to the cable system swaps between Comcast and Time Warner. As stated previously, what is before us in this proceeding is the sum of all proposed transactions, both the acquisitions and the swaps. The Applicants explain that "[i]t is the unique convergence of the location of systems currently owned by the Applicants and the systems owned by Adelphia" that allows the Applicants to achieve benefits from additional clustering. The Applicants further contend "[n]either a swap of existing systems independent of the Adelphia system acquisitions, nor the acquisition of Adelphia systems independent of systems swaps, would produce a level of geographic rationalization capable of providing the competitive benefits and efficiencies described by the Applicants." That one might have occurred without the other is immaterial for purposes of assessing whether the transactions are likely to produce the claimed public interest benefits. Therefore, when we consider the potential public interest benefits resulting from increased clustering, we will consider the clusters that are created pursuant to the combination of the acquisitions and the cable system swaps.
846
847
     278. The transactions before the Commission are an integral part of Adelphia's plan to emerge from bankruptcy. Adelphia plans to sell the assets of the majority of the Debtors pursuant to a sale under section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code ("the Sale"), and to sell the Debtors' equity interests in two joint ventures pursuant to a plan of reorganization recently filed with the bankruptcy court (the Joint Venture Plan"). If the Commission did not approve these transactions, the Applicants would not be able to consummate the Sale and Joint Venture Plan in their current forms. The Applicants argue that implementation of the Sale and Joint Venture Plan would resolve the Adelphia bankruptcy in a manner
848
849
 
 
that advances the policies of bankruptcy laws and that the Commission has an obligation to promote these policies as a part of its public interest review of the transactions.
850
851
     279. The Applicants contend that consummation of the Sale and Joint Venture Plan would (1) maximize recovery to creditors; (2) fund the settlement of the fraud suit brought by the SEC that will benefit certain defrauded Adelphia investors; and (3) move Adelphia's cable systems from management that has been distracted by a complicated, costly, and time-consuming bankruptcy to well-respected, stable management. The Applicants argue that if the Commission were to deny its approval of the transactions, it would jeopardize these benefits and frustrate the efficient and economical administration of the bankruptcy laws. Adelphia would be required to negotiate and execute a new sale arrangement or develop a stand-alone plan of reorganization. The Applicants argue that this outcome would be contrary to public policy, because Adelphia would incur substantial additional costs while it pursued these efforts and because the terms of its transactions with Time Warner and Comcast are most likely to maximize value to its stakeholders. The Applicants assert that because the debtor-in-possession and the bankruptcy court have decided that these transactions are the best way for Adelphia to emerge from bankruptcy, the Commission is "required to accommodate that decision to the greatest extent possible" in its public interest analysis.
852
853
854
855
856
857
     280. DIRECTV maintains that the Applicants have failed to show that resolving the Adelphia bankruptcy by means of these transactions promotes the public interest. DIRECTV contends that other alternatives for the disposition of Adelphia's cable systems would present fewer competitive concerns. DIRECTV also argues that the Applicants have not established that Adelphia is a "failing firm" and therefore cannot assert a failing firm defense to justify transactions that otherwise would be found to have unacceptable anticompetitive effects. Finally, DIRECTV states that the Commission's obligation to consider the national policies underlying the bankruptcy laws does not supersede the Commission's duty under section 310(d) to ensure that the transactions serve the "public interest, convenience and necessity." DIRECTV notes that the bankruptcy court's role is to protect the rights of creditors, while the Commission is charged with a broader mandate to protect the public interest. No other party commented on this issue.
858
859
860
861
 
 
     281. The Applicants respond that the obligation to consider the bankruptcy laws does not supersede, but rather is an integral part of, the Commission's public interest analysis. And, they emphatically dispute DIRECTV's assertions that the proposed transactions have anticompetitive effects.
862
863
     282. Facilitating the successful resolution of a bankruptcy proceeding is a factor in our analysis of potential public interest benefits. Both the Applicants and DIRECTV acknowledge as much, and the Commission has so indicated in previous decisions.
Discussion.
864
865
     283. We agree with DIRECTV, however, that the Commission's public interest inquiry under section 310(d) is in no way superseded by an obligation to refrain from disturbing the resolution of the bankruptcy court proceedings. The bankruptcy court considers whether the Adelphia transactions would maximize benefits to creditors. The Commission has a mandate to evaluate whether these transactions would frustrate or promote the aims of the Communications Act, including the goals of preserving and enhancing competition in relevant markets, accelerating private sector deployment of advanced services, and managing spectrum in the public interest. The principal duty of the proponents of Adelphia's plan to emerge from bankruptcy is to maximize creditor recovery. These aims are not congruent, although they are not necessarily in opposition.
866
     284. Often the competitive landscape is little changed by license transfers from a debtor-in-possession. For example, the debtor-in-possession frequently transfers its licenses to itself as the reorganized entity. The effect on competition in such cases is minimal, and there is no need for an extensive balancing of potential competitive harms against the benefits of facilitating the debtor's emergence from bankruptcy. The transactions before us, however, are more complicated than an
867
868
 
 
infusion of new capital and ownership interests that enable an existing business to continue. Pursuant to the proposed transactions, the debtor, Adelphia, would cease to exist as a major independent cable operator, and two large participants in the MVPD market would acquire the majority of its cable systems. Furthermore, the acquiring companies are also transferring existing cable systems between themselves for purposes unrelated to Adelphia's bankruptcy proceedings. The benefits of resolving the Adelphia bankruptcy are only tangentially related to the transactions between the other two Applicants. Thus, while we recognize the benefit of bringing an end to the Adelphia bankruptcy, it is simply a part of our overall public interest analysis of these complex, multi-part transactions.
     285. We disagree with DIRECTV that we should disregard the benefit of resolving the Adelphia bankruptcy by means of these transactions because of the possibility that other transactions could have permitted Adelphia to emerge from bankruptcy with fewer competitive concerns, perhaps even as a stand-alone entity. As discussed above, pursuant to the language of section 310(d), the Commission must examine whether the transactions before it will serve the public interest without regard to other possible transactions. Thus, we will not speculate about the competitive effects of other hypothetical transactions. Finally, we do not find that the Applicants relied on a "failing firm" defense to justify possible competitive harms caused by the transactions. The Applicants specifically deny that they rely on such a defense. They maintain that no such justification is needed, because the proposed transactions would not cause anticompetitive effects.
869
870
871
872
     286. We conclude that the resolution of Adelphia's bankruptcy proceeding would provide a public interest benefit insofar as it would compensate creditors and other stakeholders, and avoid the considerable expense associated with arranging an alternative disposition of Adelphia's assets. We recognize this benefit as we conduct the public interest review of the transactions, but we do not give this
 
 
benefit the same weight we might if the transactions before us related solely to the sale of the debtor's assets or if these transactions were the only way to resolve Adelphia's bankruptcy proceeding.
     287. Prior to Comcast's acquisition of AT&T, AT&T owned a 27.64% limited partnership interest (the "TWE Interest") in Time Warner Entertainment, L.P. ("TWE") and Time Warner Inc. held the remaining 72.36%. TWE was formed in 1992 to own and operate substantially all of the businesses of Warner Bros., Inc., HBO, and the cable television systems owned and operated by Time Warner prior to that time. TWE owned cable systems serving 11.32 million subscribers and managed systems owned by Time Warner outside of TWE that served an additional 1.48 million subscribers; TWE was the second largest MVPD after AT&T. AT&T acquired the TWE Interest through its acquisition of MediaOne Group, Inc.
873
     288. The Commission conditioned its approval of Comcast's acquisition of AT&T by requiring that Comcast and AT&T adequately insulate the TWE Interest from the newly merged company by (a) placing the TWE Interest in a divestiture trust (the "TWE Trust"), (b) placing any non-cash assets into the TWE Trust if the TWE restructuring ("TWE Restructuring") took place, (c) ultimately divesting itself of the TWE Interest, and (d) abiding by the restrictions set forth in Appendix B of the . The requires the trustee of the TWE Trust to divest the TWE Interest no later than five years from the closing of the Comcast-AT&T transaction. Following the closing of the Comcast-AT&T transaction, as anticipated, the TWE Restructuring took place and, as a result, the TWE Trust received non-cash consideration in the form of stock of a newly-formed company, Time Warner Cable, Inc. ("Time Warner Cable").
874
Comcast-AT&T Order
875
Comcast-AT&T Order
876
877
     289. If the proposed transactions are approved, the TWE Interest will be unwound by the redemption of Comcast's interests in Time Warner Cable and TWE in exchange for subsidiaries holding certain cable systems and cash. The Applicants claim that the divestiture of the TWE Interest (which now includes stock of Time Warner Cable) is a public interest benefit that the Commission should recognize in considering the proposed transactions, because the divestiture would be realized two years earlier than if the TWE Trust remains the legal owner of the TWE Interest for the full five-year term of the TWE Trust. The Applicants note that the TWE Interest, which has been passed to Comcast from US West as a result of a transaction that occurred 12 years ago, has long been disfavored, and the Commission has before it an opportunity, by granting the Applications, to facilitate the unwinding of the TWE Interest before the required divestiture date. In addition, they assert that the proposed divestiture
878
879
880
 
 
of the TWE Interest would ensure that the parties realize fair value from the disposition of the investment, a result that the Applicants argue the Commission expressly recognized as important to the accomplishment of public interest goals in the Comcast-AT&T Order. The Applicants further contend that the grant of the applications would reduce, rather than increase, media ownership concerns by expeditiously unwinding the TWE Interest, because the TWE Interest would no longer be associated with Comcast.
881
882
     290. DIRECTV and CWA/IBEW counter that Comcast's divestiture, or more appropriately, the trustee's divestiture, of the TWE Interest is not a cognizable benefit. They allege that it is not transaction-specific, as there are other ways in which Comcast could divest those interests and do so without anticompetitive effects. They argue that, in this case, divestiture is not a free-standing public interest benefit, but rather a pre-existing obligation imposed on Comcast in order to avoid potential harm to competition and diversity in video programming that would otherwise have resulted from its acquisition of AT&T. Further, the opponents allege that the transactions would not divest Comcast of its direct voting interest in Time Warner, which would remain subject to the trust and divestiture requirements, and the transactions would not reduce reporting and monitoring conditions the Commission has placed on both Applicants.
883
     291. The Applicants respond that the Commission has "recognized the complexities associated with the divestiture." They represent that, because the TWE Interest is being voluntarily unwound by the parties now, rather than through a forced sale at the end of the divestiture period, the proposed transactions in and of themselves are a public benefit. They further allege that but for the transactions, divestiture would not likely occur until the end of the specified period.
884
     292. . We agree with DIRECTV and CWA/IBEW that although the unwinding of the TWE Interest is a public interest benefit, it is not a benefit that derives from the instant transactions. The Commission accounted for the benefit associated with the divestiture of the TWE Interest when it conditioned its approval of the Comcast-AT&T transaction thereon. The Applicants have, therefore, already received the benefit of their agreement to divest the TWE Interest.
Discussion
     293. We likewise reject the Applicants' suggestion that unwinding the TWE Interest as part of the instant transactions rather than at the end of the term of the TWE Trust is a public interest benefit. The Applicants confuse a divestiture by the Applicants and a divestiture by the TWE Trust. The assets were divested by Comcast when the Comcast-AT&T transaction closed. The trustee now has title to the assets. It is for the trustee to decide when to divest the assets in accordance with the terms of the TWE Trust, not the Applicants. Accordingly, the Applicants' suggestion that absent the transaction a divestiture would not occur prior to the end of the term of the TWE Trust implies that the Applicants, and not the trustee, control the timing of any divestiture. It also suggests a lack of independence on the part of the trustee, something we assume that the Applicants did not mean to imply.
885
886
 
 
IX. BALANCING PUBLIC INTEREST HARMS AND BENEFITS
     294. The Commission has evaluated separately the potential public interest harms and benefits of the proposed transactions. We now weigh the potential harms against the potential benefits to determine if, on balance, the proposed transactions serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity. We find, on balance, the public interest will be served by approval of the Applications subject to the conditions we impose herein.
887
     295. Based on our review of the record, we find that the transactions may increase the likelihood of harm in markets in which Comcast or Time Warner now hold, or may in the future hold, an ownership interest in RSNs, which ultimately could increase retail prices for consumers and limit consumer MVPD choice. Specifically, we find that the transactions would enable Comcast and Time Warner to raise the price of access to RSNs by imposing uniform price increases applicable to all MVPDs, including their own systems. Such a strategy is likely to result in increased retail rates and fewer choices for consumers seeking competitive alternatives to Comcast and Time Warner. Moreover, it is likely to hamper new entrants in their efforts to obtain must have sports programming.
Potential Harms.
     296. As noted previously, our program access rules do not prohibit nondiscriminatory price increases. While a price increase imposed on an RSN's affiliated MVPD would have no actual cost effect, higher rates imposed on DBS operators or other competing MVPDs would result in higher prices and fewer alternatives for consumers. Our evidence indicates that a large number of consumers will refuse to purchase DBS service if the provider cannot offer RSNs. Therefore, DBS providers or other competing MVPDs will be willing to pay a high price to obtain RSN programming. As a result, uniform price increases for RSNs likely will lead to DBS providers raising consumer fees or offering fewer services.
     297. The arbitration conditions imposed herein are intended to constrain Comcast's and Time Warner's incentives to increase rates for RSN programming uniformly or otherwise disadvantage rival MVPDs using anticompetitive strategies. In addition, with respect to program access, the condition is intended to provide protection, if necessary, against permanent foreclosure, temporary foreclosure, and "stealth discrimination." For disputes related to access to RSN programming, the arbitration and program access conditions apply to any RSN, regardless of the means of delivery, that is currently managed or controlled by Comcast or Time Warner and prohibit Comcast or Time Warner from acquiring an attributable interest in, an option to purchase an attributable interest in, or one that would permit management or control of an RSN during the period of the conditions set forth in Appendix B if the RSN is not obligated to abide by the conditions. We also condition our approval of the transactions on a prohibition against the use of exclusive contracts or other behaviors proscribed by the Commission's program access rules with respect to Comcast's and Time Warner's affiliated RSNs, regardless of the means of delivery.
888
     298. In addition, we conclude that the transactions will increase Comcast's and Time Warner's incentive and ability to deny carriage to unaffiliated RSNs, and also may create public interest harms with respect to the carriage of unaffiliated national and non-sports regional programming. Our condition permitting the use of arbitration to resolve disputes involving commercial leased access mitigates potential public interest harms identified by commenters. The program carriage arbitration condition we adopt will alleviate the potential harms to viewers who are denied access to valuable RSN programming during protracted carriage disputes.
     299. We conclude that the transactions likely will result in the accelerated deployment of VoIP service and advanced video services, such as local VOD programming, in Adelphia
Potential Benefits.
 
 
markets. We also find that the transactions will facilitate the resolution of the bankruptcy proceeding. However, we conclude that the Applicants have not provided sufficient information to show that post-transaction the Applicants will improve or further deploy high-speed Internet service to Adelphia subscribers. In addition, while we find that the increased clustering may result in synergies and cost saving efficiencies for the Applicants, we conclude that the Applicants have failed to quantify sufficiently or verify the cost savings or adequately explain how the cost savings will flow through to consumers. We also conclude that the increased clustering is not likely to enhance competition with LECs for the provision of the triple play of services (video, voice, and data). Finally, we conclude that Comcast's unwinding of its TWE interest is not a transaction-specific benefit.
     300. As noted in Section VIII.A, in balancing the public interest harms and benefits, we employ a sliding scale approach. Under that approach, we examine the likelihood and the magnitude of the potential public interest harms. Here, we find that the proposed transactions, as conditioned, will not likely result in potential public interest harms. We also find that the transactions will result in some public interest benefits, particularly, the accelerated deployment of VoIP service and advanced video services in Adelphia's markets. Accordingly, after reviewing the record and weighing the potential harms against the potential benefits, we conclude that, on balance, the proposed transactions, as conditioned, would serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity.
Balancing.
X. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
     
A. City of San Buenaventura Petition to Condition Approval
     301. Numerous local franchising authorities ("LFAs") have jurisdiction in the areas where the Applicants provide service. Pursuant to section 617 of the Act, LFAs whose franchise agreements require LFA approval of the sales of cable systems have 120 days from the date of the Applicants' request for a franchise transfer to render a decision. The Applicants represent that as of March 31, 2006, the transfer of 3,268 cable franchises (equivalent to 99.1% of the affected franchises, according to the Applicants) had been approved or did not require approval. In addition, The Applicants reported that several of their franchise transfer applications had been denied, without prejudice, and that the Applicants continue to seek approval in those communities.
889
890
     302. City of San Buenaventura objects to the Applications on the grounds that they seek approval for assignment of CARS licenses without referencing the necessary local approvals needed to transfer the underlying cable systems. Citing the staff decision in as
891
892
Letter to Jill Abeshouse Stern
 
 
precedent, City of San Buenaventura urges the Commission to condition its approval of the Applications on the approval of the relevant franchising authorities for the transfer of the franchise rights for the underlying cable systems.
893
     303. The Applicants counter that a condition restricting transfer of the cable systems pending LFA review is unwarranted for several reasons. First, they take issue with application of to the transactions at hand. They assert that the decision, issued in 1989 at the Bureau level, holds only that approval of a CARS transfer or assignment application is not dependent upon prior local approval. Applicants add that imposing such a condition on the instant transactions would be impractical given the complexity of the transactions and the need for multiple local, state, and federal agencies to grant approval. Finally, the Applicants contend that there are no CARS facilities to be transferred in the transactions that provide service to the City of San Buenaventura and therefore Commission approval cannot be conditioned on the city's LFA review.
Stern
894
895
896
     304. Both the Applicants and the City of San Buenaventura use to buttress their arguments. The Applicants argue that Commission grant of the CARS licenses is "permissive" in nature and not dependent on prior approval by an LFA to the transfer of the local cable system franchise. The City of San Buenaventura contends that, notwithstanding the permissive nature of the Commission's authorizations, in the Bureau recognized the rights of LFAs to approve by prohibiting the consummation of the underlying transactions until the LFA approved the transfer of the underlying franchise. As the Bureau indicated in , the Commission's approval of a CARS assignment application does not circumvent the local franchise approval process in any way. Nonetheless, in granting the single CARS application at issue in that case, the Bureau chose to impose a condition that the transaction not be consummated until the local franchise authority approved the transfer of the franchise for the underlying cable system. In view of the numerous CARS licenses and authorizations affected by the transactions under review herein, we deem such an approach impractical. Numerous LFAs must approve the transfers of Adelphia's systems to Comcast and Time Warner, as well as transfers between Time Warner and Comcast. To condition our approval on the completion of multiple local review processes would not benefit the smooth processing of the Applications at the federal level. Were we to
Discussion.
Stern
Stern
Stern
897
898
899
 
 
impose such a condition, the Commission would be placed in the untenable position of having to monitor numerous local franchise transfer proceedings and any associated judicial proceedings to determine when individual licenses may be transferred.
900
     305. Commission rules afford the Applicants 60 days after Commission approval of the license transfers to consummate the underlying transactions, which should provide them adequate time to secure the necessary franchise approvals. If the Applicants require additional time, they may request an extension of the 60-day period. As discussed previously in this Order, if any aspect of the transactions fails to transpire, and the Commission deems that aspect material to its public interest analysis, it may warrant re-evaluation of the transactions based on those developments. If the Applicants are unable to obtain the necessary LFA approvals, we will require that they notify the Commission in writing and identify the communities and relevant CARS authorizations for the related franchise transfer applications that have been denied, as well as the number of subscribers attributable to the cable systems in those communities.
901
902
903
904
     306. Moreover, the requested condition is not necessary to protect the integrity of the local transfer review process. If the franchise agreement establishes the right of the City of San Buenaventura or any other LFA to approve the franchise transfer, Commission approval of the license transfers will not override the authority of the City of Buenaventura, and it can enforce its right with or without the requested condition. Accordingly, we decline to adopt it.
     
B. Free Press Motion to Hold in Abeyance
     307. On October 31, 2005, Free Press filed a Motion to Hold in Abeyance, asking the Commission to hold the Adelphia proceeding in abeyance pending the filing and Commission's review of then-proposed applications for the transfer of Susquehanna Cable Company's ("Susquehanna") cable systems to Comcast. Free Press asserts that the Commission can meaningfully review the combined effects of the instant transactions and the Susquehanna transfer on regional concentration only if it considers them together. Comcast opposes the motion, asserting that it raises issues that are irrelevant and unrelated to the transactions. Further, Comcast states that grant of the motion would effectively deny Applicants a fair and expeditious review of their long-pending Applications, thereby harming Applicants as well as Adelphia consumers who are "awaiting the benefits that the proposed Adelphia Transactions will bring.
905
906
 
 
     308. In response to the Commission's information request, Comcast filed subscriber data pertaining to its then-30% equity interest in Susquehanna Cable Company. Further, on December 20, 2005, Comcast filed an application seeking consent for the acquisition of the Susquehanna cable systems. No petitions to deny or other comments in opposition were filed regarding the transfer application. The Media Bureau granted the application and approved the transfer of Susquehanna's cable assets to Comcast on April 13, 2006, during the pendency of this proceeding. Thus, we have taken account of and attributed to Comcast Susquehanna's 226,117 subscribers in the context of our review of the Applications, including the effect on Comcast's horizontal reach. Accordingly, there is no need to hold the Applications in abeyance to achieve the relief that Free Press desires. Therefore, we deny Free Press' motion.
907
908
909
910
     
C. TWE and Time Warner Cable Redemption Transactions
     309. Under the current terms of the trust established pursuant to the any non-cash consideration received by the trustee in return for trust assets is to remain in the trust unless the Commission's Media Bureau approves its distribution to Comcast. Pursuant to the Time Warner Cable Redemption Agreement and TWE Redemption Agreement, Comcast is to acquire the ownership
Comcast-AT&T Order,
911
 
 
interests in certain entities holding cable systems and related assets in exchange for its interests in Time Warner Cable and TWE. Accordingly, Comcast seeks approval to acquire the ownership interests of these directly and not through the trust upon consummation of the transactions.
912
     310. We find there is no public interest reason for denying Comcast's request. We have determined above, pursuant to a full public interest analysis, that approval of the license transfer Applications in this proceeding, as conditioned, will benefit the public interest. The purpose of Section 5(e) of the trust agreement is to ensure that assets acquired by the trust will remain in trust pending a review by the Media Bureau. In this case, the Commission has reviewed Comcast's proposed acquisition of cable systems currently held by TWC and TWE. These acquisitions represent substantial progress toward Comcast's continuing effort to unwind the TWE Interest in compliance with the Consistent with the Commission's intent in requiring the unwinding of the TWE Interest, Comcast's acquisition of the TWC and TWE systems will sever the joint ownership of those systems by Comcast and Time Warner. Because we have found that Comcast's acquisition of these and other systems subject to the transactions will benefit the public interest, the additional regulatory approval required by Section 5(e) of the trust agreement is unnecessary and would serve only to delay ultimate consummation of the transactions, without any concomitant public interest benefit. Accordingly, we grant Comcast's request.
Comcast-AT&T Order.
XI. ORDERING CLAUSES
     311. Accordingly, having reviewed the Applications and the record in this matter, IT IS ORDERED, pursuant to sections 4(i), 4(j), 214(a), 214(c), 309, and 310(d) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.  154(i), 154(j), 214(a), 214(c), 309, 310(d), that the Applications for Consent to the Assignment and/or Transfer of Control of various licenses from and/or between Adelphia Communications Corp., Time Warner Cable, Inc., and Comcast Corp. ARE GRANTED subject to the conditions set forth herein and in Appendix B.
     312. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the above grants shall include authority for Comcast and Time Warner consistent with the terms of this Order to acquire control of (a) any license or authorization issued for any system that is part of these transactions during the Commission's consideration of the Applications or the period required for consummation of the transactions, (b) construction permits held by such systems that mature into licenses after closing, (c) applications filed by such systems that are pending at the time of consummation of the transfers of control or assignments, and (d) licenses that may have been inadvertently omitted from the Applications that are held by such systems.
     313. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that approval IS CONDITIONED as set forth in Sections VI.C-D, and Appendix B.
     314. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that within 60 days after consummation of the transactions, Time Warner and Comcast each provide to the Office of the Secretary of the Commission an affidavit, signed by a competent officer of the companies, certifying that the requirements of section 76.501 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  76.501, have been satisfied.
     315. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that within 90 days after consummation of the transactions, Time Warner and Comcast each provide to the Office of the Secretary of the Commission an affidavit, signed by a competent officer of the companies, certifying without qualification that the requirements of section 76.504 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  76.504, have been satisfied.
     316. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Comcast's request for approval to acquire, upon consummation of the transactions, ownership interests in entities holding cable systems and related assets, in exchange for its interests in Time Warner and TWE, hitherto held in trust, is granted. This grant of
 
 
approval encompasses regulatory approvals required by Section 5(e) of the Trust Agreement for distribution of trust assets to be redeemed pursuant to the Time Warner Redemption Transaction and the TWE Redemption Transaction under the terms of the trust agreement pursuant to
913
Comcast-AT&T Order.
914
     317. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the license transfers approved herein must be consummated and notification provided to the Commission within 60 days of public notice of approval pursuant to Commission rule 78.35(e). The above grants are limited to Commission licenses and authorizations, and shall not be deemed to constitute independently sufficient authorizations to operate the related cable systems. If Applicants are unable to consummate any of the license transfers contained in the Applications because LFA approvals are still pending, or for any other reason, Applicants must submit written notice to the Commission prior to the expiration of the 60-day deadline. If Applicants are unable to consummate consistent with the provisions of Commission rule 78.35(e), Applicants must seek an extension of time within which to consummate or withdraw the affected license transfer or assignment applications. Written notice must include (1) the reason for the inability to consummate any of the transfers or assignments; (2) identification of the affected cable systems, including community and number of subscribers attributable to each cable system; and (3) identification of the relevant CARS, wireless or other authorization. In this regard, if Applicants' failure to consummate would result in violation of any Commission rule, Applicants must file within 30 days of the action that results in violation of the rule(s) the necessary applications to remedy the violation. Applicants must provide notice within seven days of the final outcome of any proceeding which affects their ability to operate a system that would have undergone a change in ownership as a result of the transfers described in the transactions.
915
916
     318. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that pursuant to sections 4(i), 4(j), 214(a), 214(c), 309, and 310(d), of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.  154(i), 154(j), 214(a), 214(c), 309, 310(d), that the Petitions to Deny filed by Free Press et. al., Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, The America Channel LLC and National Hispanic Media Coalition ARE DENIED except to the extent otherwise indicated in this Order.
     319. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that pursuant to sections 4(i), 4(j), 214(a), 214(c), 309, and 310(d), of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.  154(i), 154(j), 214(a), 214(c), 309, 310(d), that the Motion to Hold in Abeyance filed October 31, 2005, by Free Press, Center for Creative Voices in Media, Office of Communication of the United Church of Christ, Inc., U.S. Public Interest Research Group, Center for Digital Democracy, CCTV, Center for Media & Democracy, Media Alliance, National Hispanic Media Coalition, the Benton Foundation, and Reclaim the Media IS DENIED.
     320. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that pursuant to sections 4(i), 4(j), 214(a), 214(c), 309, and 310(d), of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.  154(i), 154(j), 214(a), 214(c), 309, 310(d), that the Petition to Condition Approval of Application to Transfer Control of CARS Stations filed by the City of Buenaventura, California and the Petition of TCR Sports Broadcasting Holding, L.L.P. to Impose Conditions or, in the alternative, To Deny Part of the Proposed Transaction ARE DENIED except to the extent otherwise indicated in this Order.
     321. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED THAT pursuant to sections 4(i), 4(j), 214 (a), 214(c), 309, and 310(d), of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C.  154(i), 154(j), 214(a), 214(c),
 
 
309, 310(d), and 47 C.F.R.  1.46 of the Commission's rules, the Motion for Extension of Time of Black Television News Channel, LLC to File Comments is DENIED.
     322. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this Memorandum Opinion and Order SHALL BE EFFECTIVE upon release, in accordance with section 1.103 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  1.103.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
Marlene H. Dortch Secretary
 
Exhibit 10.46
Petitions to Deny and/or to Condition Approval
City of San Buenaventura, California ("City of San Buenaventura")
Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("CWA/IBEW")
Free Press, Center for Creative Voices in Media, Office of Communication of the United Church of Christ, Inc., U.S. Public Interest Research Group, Center for Digital Democracy, CCTV, Center for Media & Democracy, Media Alliance, National Hispanic Media Coalition, The Benton Foundation, and Reclaim the Media ("Free Press")
National Hispanic Media Coalition ("NHMC") TCR Sports Broadcasting Holding, L.L.P. ("TCR") The America Channel, LLC ("TAC")
Initial Comments
Adam Thierer and Daniel English ("Thierer and English") Americans for Prosperity* Americans for Tax Reform* Black Leadership Forum, Inc.* DIRECTV, Inc. ("DIRECTV") EchoStar Satellite L.L.C. ("EchoStar") Faith and Family Broadcasting Coalition ("FFBC")
Florida Communities of Clay County, Lee County, Orange County, Polk County, and St. Lucie County ("Florida Communities")
FreedomWorks* IBC Worldwide, LTD. ("IBC") KVMD Licensee Co., LLC ("KVMD") Marco Island Cable ("MIC") National Black Chamber of Commerce, Inc.* National Braille Press* National Congress of Black Women, Inc.* National Conference of Black Mayors, Inc.* NDN* RCN Telecom Services, Inc. ("RCN") Urban League of Greater Hartford, Inc.*
Reply Comments
Alliance for Community Peace* ArtServe* Association of Hispanic Advertising Agencies* Black Entertainment & Telecommunications Association* Black Television News Channel ("BTNC") Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("CWA/IBEW")
1
Congreso de Latinos Unidos*
 
 
Consumer Federation of America and Consumers Union ("CFA/CU") Cuban American Publishers Association* El Heraldo de Broward and Viva Broward!* IBC Worldwide, LTD. ("IBC") Florida Hispanic Legislative Caucus* Heart of Los Angeles Youth* Hispanas Organized for Political Equality* Hispanic Unity of Florida* Latin Chamber of Commerce of Broward County* Ministerial Alliance Against the Digital Divide* National Association of Broadcasters ("NAB")
National Association of Telecommunications Officers and Advisors, Reclaim the Media, CCTV, Center for Media & Democracy, Citizens for Independent Public Broadcasting, and Alliance for Community Media ("NATOA")
National Hispanic Corporate Council* National Hispanic Foundation for the Arts* Oiste?* Puerto Rican/Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of Broward County* TCR Sports Broadcasting Holding, L.L.P. ("TCR") TELEMIAMI, Inc.* The Heartland Institute TV One* Westwood Community Development Corporation* WDLP Broadcasting Co. LLC*
 
 
Exhibit 10.46
A. Definitions
For purposes of the conditions set forth below, the following definitions apply:
"Comcast" means Comcast Corporation and its subsidiaries, affiliates, parents, successors, and assigns.
"Time Warner" means Time Warner Cable Inc. and its subsidiaries, affiliates, parents, successors, and assigns.
"Regional Sports Network" and "RSN" mean any non-broadcast video programming service that (1) provides live or same-day distribution within a limited geographic region of sporting events of a sports team that is a member of Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Football League, the National Hockey League, NASCAR, NCAA Division I Football, NCAA Division I Basketball and (2) in any year, carries a minimum of either 100 hours of programming that meets the criteria of subheading 1, or 10% of the regular season games of at least one sports team that meets the criteria of subheading 1.
B. Conditions
1. Program Access Conditions
a. Comcast, Time Warner, and their existing or future Covered RSNs, regardless of the means of delivery, shall not offer any such RSN on an exclusive basis to any MVPD, and Comcast, Time Warner, and their Covered RSNs, regardless of the means of delivery, are required to make such RSNs available to all MVPDs on a non-exclusive basis and on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions.
1
b. Comcast and Time Warner will not enter into an exclusive distribution arrangement with any such Covered RSN, regardless of the means of delivery.
2
c. Neither Comcast nor Time Warner (including any entity with which it is affiliated) shall unduly or improperly influence (i) the decision of any Covered RSN, regardless of the means of delivery, to sell programming to an unaffiliated MVPD; or (ii) the prices, terms, and conditions of sale of programming by a Covered RSN, regardless of the means of delivery, to an unaffiliated MVPD.
3
d. These exclusive contracts and practices, non-discrimination, and undue or improper influence requirements of the program access rules will apply to Comcast, Time Warner, and their Covered RSNs for six years, provided that if the program access rules are modified this condition shall be modified to conform to any revised rules adopted by the Commission.
4
 
 
e. For enforcement purposes, aggrieved MVPDs may bring program access complaints against Comcast, Time Warner, or their Covered RSNs using the procedures found at Section 76.1003, 47 C.F.R. 76.1003, of the Commission's rules.
2. Commercial Arbitration Remedy
     a. An aggrieved MVPD may submit a dispute over the terms and conditions of carriage of an RSN subject to these conditions (i) that Comcast or Time Warner currently manages or controls or (ii) in which Comcast or Time Warner, on or after the date of adoption of this Order and during the period of this condition, acquires either an attributable interest, an option to purchase an attributable interest, or one that would permit management or control of the RSN (a "Covered RSN").
5
     b. Following the expiration of any existing contract, or 90 days after a first time request for carriage, an MVPD may notify the Covered RSN and either Time Warner or Comcast, as appropriate, within five business days that it intends to request commercial arbitration to determine the terms of the new affiliation agreement.
     c. Upon receiving timely notice of the MVPD's intent to arbitrate, either Time Warner or Comcast, as applicable, shall ensure that the Covered RSN allows continued carriage under the same terms and conditions of the expired affiliation agreement as long as the MVPD continues to meet the obligations set forth in this condition.
     d. Carriage of the disputed programming during the period of arbitration is not required in the case of first time requests for carriage.
6
     e. The period following the Covered RSN's receipt of timely notice of the MVPD's intent to arbitrate and before the MVPD's filing for formal arbitration with the American Arbitration Association ("AAA"), shall constitute a "cooling off" period during which time negotiations are to continue.
     f. The MVPD's formal demand for arbitration, which shall include the MVPD's "final offer," may be filed with the AAA no earlier than the fifteenth business day after the expiration of the RSN contract and no later than the end of the twentieth business day following such expiration. If the MVPD makes a timely demand, either Time Warner or Comcast, as applicable, shall ensure that the Covered RSN participates in the arbitration proceeding.
     g. The AAA will notify the Covered RSN, Time Warner or Comcast, as appropriate, and the MVPD upon receiving the MVPD's formal filing.
     h. Either Time Warner or Comcast, as appropriate, shall ensure that the Covered RSN files a "final offer" with the AAA within two business days of being notified by the AAA that a formal demand for arbitration has been filed by the MVPD.
     i. The MVPD's final offer may not be disclosed until the AAA has received the final offer from the Covered RSN.
     j. A final offer shall be in the form of a contract for the carriage of the programming for a period of at least three years. A final offer may not include any provision to carry any video programming networks or any other service other than the Covered RSN.
3. Rules of Arbitration
 
 
     a. The arbitration will be decided by a single arbitrator under the expedited procedures of the commercial arbitration rules, then in effect, of the AAA (the "Rules"), excluding the rules relating to large, complex cases, but including the modifications to the Rules set forth in Appendix . The arbitrator shall issue his decision within 30 days from the date that the arbitrator is appointed.
C
     b. The parties may agree to modify any of the time limits set forth above and any of the procedural rules of the arbitration; absent agreement, however, the rules specified herein apply. The parties may not, however, modify the requirement that they engage in final-offer arbitration.
     c. The arbitrator is directed to choose the final offer of the party that most closely approximates the fair market value of the programming carriage rights at issue.
     d. Under no circumstances will the arbitrator choose a final offer that does not permit the Covered RSN to recover a reasonable share of the costs of acquiring the programming at issue.
     e. To determine fair market value, the arbitrator may consider any relevant evidence (and may require the parties to submit such evidence to the extent it is in their possession), including, but not limited to:
          i. current or previous contracts between MVPDs and RSNs in which Comcast or Time Warner do not have an interest as well as offers made in such negotiations (which may provide evidence of either a floor or a ceiling of fair market value);
          ii. evidence of the relative value of such programming compared to the Covered RSN programming at issue (e.g., advertising rates, ratings);
          iii. contracts between MVPDs and RSNs on whose behalf Comcast or Time Warner have negotiated, made before Comcast or Time Warner acquired control of the systems swapped and acquired in the Adelphia transactions;
7
          iv. offers made in such negotiations;
          v. internal studies or discussions of the imputed value of Covered RSN programming in bundled agreements;
          vi. other evidence (including internal discussions) of the value of Covered RSN programming;
          vii. changes in the value of programming agreements for RSNs in which Time Warner or Comcast do not have an attributable interest;
          viii. changes in the value or costs of the Covered RSN's programming, or in other prices relevant to the relative value of the Covered RSN programming (e.g., advertising rates).
     f. The arbitrator may not consider offers prior to the arbitration made by the MVPD and the Covered RSN for the programming at issue in determining the fair market value.
     g. If the arbitrator finds that one party's conduct, during the course of the arbitration, has been unreasonable, the arbitrator may assess all or a portion of the other party's costs and expenses (including attorney fees) against the offending party.
     h. Following resolution of the dispute by the arbitrator, to the extent practicable, the terms of the new affiliation agreement will become retroactive to the expiration date of the previous affiliation agreement. If carriage of the RSN programming has continued uninterrupted during the arbitration process, and if the arbitrator's award requires a higher amount to be paid than was required under the terms of the expired contract, the MVPD will make an additional payment to the Covered RSN in an amount representing the difference between the amount that is required to be paid under the arbitrator's award and the amount actually paid under the terms of the expired contract during the period of arbitration. If carriage of the RSN programming has continued uninterrupted during the arbitration process, and if the arbitrator's award requires a smaller amount to be paid than was required under the terms of the expired contract, the Covered RSN will credit the MVPD with an amount representing the difference between the amount
 
 
actually paid under the terms of the expired contract during the period of arbitration and the amount that is required to be paid under the arbitrator's award.
     i. Judgment upon an award entered by the arbitrator may be entered by any court having competent jurisdiction over the matter, unless one party indicates that it wishes to seek review of the award with the Commission and does so in a timely manner.
4. Review of Award by the Commission
     a. A party aggrieved by the arbitrator's award may file with the Commission a petition seeking de novo review of the award. The petition must be filed within 30 days of the date the award is published. The petition, together with an unredacted copy of the arbitrator's award, shall be filed with the Secretary's office and shall be concurrently served on the Chief, Media Bureau. The Commission shall issue its findings and conclusions not more than 60 days after receipt of the petition, which may be extended by the Commission for one period of 60 days.
     b. The MVPD may elect to carry the programming at issue pending the FCC decision, subject to the terms and conditions of the arbitrator's award.
     c. In reviewing the award, the Commission will examine the same evidence that was presented to the arbitrator and will choose the final offer of the party that most closely approximates the fair market value of the programming carriage rights at issue.
     d. The Commission may award the winning party costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney fees) to be paid by the losing party, if it considers the appeal or conduct by the losing party to have been unreasonable. Such an award of costs and expenses may cover both the appeal and the costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney fees) of the arbitration.
     e. Judgment upon an award entered by the arbitrator may be entered by any court having competent jurisdiction over the matter.
5. Provisions Applicable to Small MVPDs: An MVPD meeting the definition of a "small cable company" may appoint a bargaining agent to bargain collectively on its behalf in negotiating carriage of an Covered RSN and either Time Warner or Comcast, as applicable, shall ensure that the Covered RSN may not refuse to negotiate carriage with such an entity. The designated collective bargaining entity will have all the rights and responsibilities granted by these conditions. An MVPD that uses a bargaining agent may, notwithstanding any contractual term to the contrary, disclose to such bargaining agent the date upon which its then current carriage contract with the Covered RSN expires.
8
6. Additional Provisions Concerning Arbitration: Not earlier than 60 business days and no later than 20 business days prior to the expiration of an affiliation agreement with an MVPD for video programming subject to this condition, the Covered RSN must provide the MVPD with a copy of the conditions imposed in this Order. No later than ten business days after receiving a first time request for carriage, the Covered RSN must provide the requesting MVPD with a copy of the conditions imposed in this Order.
7. The foregoing arbitration condition shall remain in effect for six years from the adoption date of this Order. The Commission will consider a petition for modification of this condition if it can be demonstrated that there has been a material change in circumstance or the condition has proven unduly burdensome, rendering the condition no longer necessary in the public interest.
 
 
1. We modify the Rules in several respects as they apply to arbitration involving regional sports networks.
2. Arbitration shall be initiated as provided in Rule R-4 except that, under Rule R-4(a)(ii) the MVPD shall not be required to submit copies of the arbitration provisions of the contract, but shall instead refer to this Order in the demand for arbitration. Such reference shall be sufficient for the AAA to take jurisdiction.
Initiation of Arbitration.
3. Appointment of an arbitrator shall be in accordance with Rule E-4 of the Rules. Arbitrators included on the list referred to in Rule E-4(a) of the Rules shall be selected from a panel jointly developed by the American Arbitration Association and the Commission and which is based on the following criteria:
Appointment of the Arbitrator.
     The arbitrator shall be a lawyer admitted to the bar of a state of the United States or the District of Columbia;
     The arbitrator shall have been practicing law for at least 10 years;
     The arbitrator shall have prior experience in mediating or arbitrating disputes concerning media programming contracts;
     The arbitrator shall have negotiated or have knowledge of the terms of comparable cable programming network contracts.
4. At the request of any party, or at the discretion of the arbitrator, the arbitrator may direct the production of current and previous contracts between either of the parties and MVPDs, broadcast stations, video programming networks, and sports teams, leagues, and organizations as well as any additional information that is considered relevant in determining the value of the programming to the parties. Parties may request that access to information of a commercially sensitive nature be restricted to the arbitrator and outside counsel and experts of the opposing party pursuant to the terms of a protective order.
Exchange of Information.
5. If the arbitrator finds that one party's conduct, during the course of the arbitration, has been unreasonable, the arbitrator may assess all or a portion of the other party's costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) against the offending party.
Administrative Fees and Expenses.
6. In the absence of agreement between the parties, the arbitration shall be held in the city that contains the headquarters of the MVPD.
Locale.
 
     1. This appendix explains the economic analysis undertaken by the Commission to evaluate the potential harms deriving from the increased vertical integration of regional sports programming networks and cable systems that may result from the transaction under review. It presents an economic model of a uniform price increase strategy. The model sets forth the most important determinants of the strategy's profitability. The model indicates that one of the most important elements is consumer response to an MVPD's failure to carry an RSN. Accordingly, the appendix describes the estimation of this response. We also assign values to the remaining variables in the model and calculate the signs and magnitudes of the changes in the individual markets due to the transactions.
I. A MODEL OF UNIFORM PRICE INCREASES
     2. Standard economic models of raising rivals' costs assume that firms are able to engage in price discrimination. However, the Commission rules do not permit vertically integrated video programmers to engage in price discrimination except within certain narrow limits. Accordingly, the standard models pertaining to raising rivals' costs do not fit the institutions of the multichannel video programming industry perfectly because the integrated firm would need to raise the costs of both rivals and non-rival firms in order to comply with the Commission's rules. However, a model is available, furnished by Lexecon, on behalf of DIRECTV. Lexecon's simple model of raising rivals' costs illustrates the process by which a vertically integrated RSN has an incentive to increase its prices when there is an increase in size of the MVPD with which it is integrated. Using its framework, Lexecon estimates the maximum amount that a competing MVPD would be willing to pay for access to an integrated RSN. This amount would be the price that would make the competing MVPD indifferent as to whether to pay the price and carry the programming or decline to carry the programming and suffer a subscriber loss because the programming is not available.
1
2
     3. The extent of subscriber losses when an MVPD does not carry particular programming is a critical factor in determining the price an MVPD is willing to pay for that programming. In turn, the loss of subscribers incurred by an MVPD that does not carry the programming is influenced by whether any competing MVPDs carry the programming. If a competing MVPD does carry the programming, the loss of subscribers is likely to be greater than if a competing MVPD does not carry the programming, because some fraction of the consumers who value the programming will switch to an MVPD that does carry the programming. Of course, even if none of the MVPDs in the market carry the programming, there still may be a loss in customers when particular programming is no longer offered, because MVPD service would be less valuable to some customers without the desired programming.
     4. To determine the maximum amount a competing MVPD would be willing to pay for video programming, we compare the profits that the competing MVPD would earn if it carried the video programming with the profits that it would earn if it did not carry the programming. The maximum willingness to pay for the programming is the price that would yield the same level of profits regardless of whether the programming were carried.
     5. The competing MVPD's profits from carrying or not carrying the video programming depend on whether the other MVPDs competing for subscribers in the market carry the programming. To assist us in our analysis, we adopt a simplifying assumption used by Lexecon. We assume that other unintegrated MVPDs that serve the market would have the same willingness to pay as the competing MVPD and, therefore, whenever the price of the video programming is low enough to induce the
 
 
competing MVPD to carry it, the other unintegrated MVPDs will also carry the video programming. If the price of the video programming is so high that the competing MVPD will not carry it, then we assume that the price will also be too high for other unintegrated MVPDs. Since the price of the video programming does not influence the carriage decision of the Applicant's MVPD, which is integrated with the video programming, we assume that the programming will always be carried by the Applicants.
     6. Formally, the profits earned by the competing MVPD that carries the programming is equal to ( - P) , where is the share of households purchasing service from the competing MVPD if all the MVPDs serving the market carry the programming; N is the number of households in the market; P is the per subscriber price of the video programming at issue; and is the profit the competing MVPD earns on an additional subscriber, excluding the price of the programming at issue.
s
++
N
p
0
s
++
0
p
     7. The expression that represents the profits that the competing MVPD would earn if it did not carry the programming is more complex. We need to take into account that the other MVPDs' carriage decisions will depend on whether they are integrated with the programming network at issue. First, we consider the profits that would be earned in the portions of the market served by the competing MVPD and other unintegrated MVPDs. Since we have assumed that the other unintegrated MVPDs have the same willingness to pay as the competing MVPD, they will make the same carriage decision and, therefore they will also refuse to carry the programming. The profits the competing MVPD earns in areas of the market served by unintegrated MVPDs equals , where is the share of households purchasing service from the competing MVPD if all MVPDs serving this portion of the market do not carry the programming, and is the number of households in the portion of the market that is served by unintegrated MVPDs. The profits the competing MVPD earns in areas of the market served by the Applicant is equal to , where is the share of households purchasing service from the competing MVPD if the competing MVPD does not carry the programming but the MVPD serving this portion of the market carries the programming, and is the number of households in the portion of the market the Applicants serve. These two terms can then be combined to obtain the total profits that the competing MVPD would earn if it does not carry the programming at issue: + . The maximum willingness to pay is:
s
--
N
0
U
p
s
--
N
I
0
s
+-
N
0
I
p
s
+-
N
I
0
s
--
N
0
U
p
s
+-
N
0
I
p
This is the price that equalizes the profits of the competing carrier when it carries the programming and the profits earned when it does not carry the programming.
3
     8. We further modify this result by introducing the concept of bargaining power. It may not be possible for the Applicant's programming network to extract fully from the competing MVPD all of its additional profits earned from carrying the network. Therefore, we introduce a parameter for the bargaining power of the programmer, , that lies between 0 and 1. DIRECTV's analysis implicitly assumes that is equal to 1 and that the programmer can obtain a price equal to the MVPD's maximum willingness to pay. We allow for cases where this may not be true. Therefore the price that will be paid by the competing MVPD for the Applicant's programming is:
g
0
g
0
      
 
2
 
      
     9. To examine the transactions' effect on the price of programming, we need to examine which of the elements in equation (2) might change due to the transactions. The number of households in the portion of the market that is served by the Applicant's cable operations, , will change in those markets affected by the transactions. We will use as the post-transaction value for the number of households in the portion of the market the Applicant serves. In addition, the level of bargaining power may change. We will use to represent the bargaining power of the Applicant's programming network after the transactions. We do not believe the reactions of consumers, measured by the terms, are likely to change due to the transactions. Nor are the per subscriber profits, net of the cost of the programming at issue (), likely to change due to the transactions. Therefore, the price of the Applicant's programming at issue following the transactions will be:
N
I
0
N
I
1
g
1
s
p
     10. Equations (2) and (3) can be combined to obtain the predicted increase in the price of the Applicant's programming due to the transactions. The percentage increase in the price of the affiliated video programming network is:
      
Two simplifying assumptions can be used to illustrate the underlying behavior being modeled. One assumption is that the transactions do not influence the amount of bargaining power that the Applicant's video programming network possesses (i.e. = ). The second assumes that the share of households purchasing the competing MVPD's service is the same when neither it nor any other MVPD available in the area carries the video programming at issue and when the competing MVPD and any other MVPD available in the area do carry the video programming (i.e. ). = With these assumptions, the percentage increase in the price of the Applicant's video programming network becomes:
g
0
g
1
s
 
s
++
 
     11. Under these two simplifying assumptions the percentage increase in the uniform price of the Applicant's programming network is equal to the percentage increase in the households that are in the area served by the Applicant's cable systems.
II. ESTIMATING CONSUMER RESPONSES TO THE WITHHOLDING OF REGIONAL SPORTS PROGRAMMING
     12. In order to evaluate the likelihood of uniform price increases, we need information on how consumers react when regional sports programming is not available from some of the MVPDs in a market. The model set forth above requires estimates of the number of subscribers who will shift in the event that highly valued sports programming is unavailable. We base our estimates of this effect on instances in which sports programming has been withheld from MVPDs.
     13. There are three areas in the United States where regional sports programming networks are not offered for sale to DBS operators: Charlotte, North Carolina; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San
3
 
      
Diego, California. We examine the fraction of television households subscribing to DBS service in these areas and use regression analysis to compare that to the fraction subscribing to DBS in locations where regional sports programming is available from DBS operators.
4
     
A. Empirical Model
     14. We follow Wise and Duwadi (2005) in the specification of a model to examine DBS penetration and the variables that affect it. The model estimates the impact of cable prices, cable system characteristics, population demographics, and DBS program offerings on the percent of television households subscribing to DBS service. Each observation in our data corresponds to an incumbent cable system responding to the 2005 FCC Cable Price Survey. The survey provides information on the service rates and characteristics of the responding cable operators' cable systems. We use an estimate from Nielsen Media Research of the number of households subscribing to "alternative delivery systems" in a county to construct our measure of DBS penetration. Demographic variables are also available at the county level from the 2000 Census.
5
6
     15. We use a partial log-linear functional form where the dependent and continuous independent variables are transformed using the natural logarithm. We estimate the following equation:
7
LN DBS PENETRATION= + LN CABLE PRICE + LN CABLE CHANNELS + PHILLY + SANDIEGO + CHARLOTTE + KEYDMA + DBSOVERAIR + CABLECOMP + HDTV + INTERNET + LN INCOME + LN MULTIDWELL + LN LATITUDE +
B
0
B
1
B
2
B
3
B
4
B
5
B
6
B
7
B
8
B
9
B
10
B
11
B
12
B
13
e
Where:
LN DBS PENETRATION is the log of the percent of television households subscribing to an "alternative delivery system" in the county containing the responding cable system;
LN CABLE PRICE is the log of the recurring monthly charge for the basic tier plus the next additional package of channels offered by the responding cable system;
8
LN CABLE CHANNELS is the log of the number of cable channels offered by the responding cable system on the basic tier plus the next additional package of channels;
PHILLY is an indicator variable taking on the value of 1 when the responding cable system is located in the Philadelphia DMA;
SANDIEGO is an indicator variable taking on the value of 1 when the responding cable system is located in the San Diego DMA;
 
4
 
      
CHARLOTTE is an indicator variable taking on the value of 1 when the responding cable system is located in the Charlotte DMA;
KEYDMA is an indicator variable taking on the value of 1 when the responding cable system is located in a DMA that is home to a professional sports team that is a member of Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Football League, or the National Hockey League;
DBSOVERAIR is an indicator variable taking on the value of 1 when one or both DBS operators offer local broadcast signals in the DMA where the responding cable system is located;
CABLECOMP is an indicator variable taking on the value of 1 when the cable system competes against a second cable operator;
HDTV is an indicator variable taking on the value of 1 when the responding cable system offers one or more channels in high-definition format;
INTERNET is an indicator variable taking on the value of 1 when the responding cable system offers high-speed Internet access;
LN INCOME is the log of the median household income in the county containing the responding system;
LN MULTIDWELL is the log of the percent of households in multiple dwelling units ("MDUs") in the county containing the responding system; and
9
LN LATITUDE is the log of the latitude of the county containing the responding system.
     16. We use instrumental variables to account for possible endogeneity of the cable price and the number of cable channels. We use the natural logs of system capacity (MHz) and the number of subscribers served nationally by the cable system owner, as well as the number of networks with which the cable system owner is vertically integrated, as excluded instruments. We perform estimation using the generalized method of moments.
     
B. Results
     17. 
Table A-1
 
5
 
      
 
     18. The results from the estimation indicate that DBS penetration is lower in two of the three areas where DBS operators have not been able to carry regional sports programming even after accounting for other factors that affect consumers' decisions to purchase DBS service. In the case of the independent variables that are expressed as logarithms, the estimated coefficients represent elasticities  the percent change in the DBS penetration rate resulting from a one percent change in the value of the independent variable. This is not true for indicator variables. They measure the change in the natural logarithm of the DBS penetration rate when the indicator variable takes on a value of 1. Therefore, to evaluate the economic significance of access to regional sports programming by DBS operators, we would like to know the impact of unavailability of RSNs on the percent of households purchasing DBS service. We calculate this value by using the regression equation coefficients and the underlying data to predict the log of the DBS penetration rate in Philadelphia and San Diego. We calculate the weighted average of this value using the number of basic subscribers to the responding cable system as weights. The predicted DBS penetration rate in the DMA is the exponential of this value. We calculate this value a second time assuming that the regional sports programming is available (variable PHILLY = 0 and variable SANDIEGO = 0). We find that, in Philadelphia, the regression predicts a DBS penetration rate of 8.6% when the regional sports programming is not available and a rate of 14.5% if the programming were made available. In San Diego, the predicted rate when the programming is not available is 7.4%, and if the programming is available, the penetration rate would be 11.1%. Therefore, we predict that DBS penetration is 40.5% lower in Philadelphia and 33.3% lower in San Diego than it would be if regional sports programming were available.
10
     19. These results are best viewed as estimates of the impact of not having access to regional sports programming on an entrant in the MVPD market. The regional sports programming in Philadelphia and San Diego has not been available to DBS operators since 1997. We therefore view the regression results as an imprecise estimate of the impact on DBS operators if regional sports programming were withdrawn from the operators after having been available for an extended period of time. An alternative approach to estimating the effects of RSN withdrawal involves examining viewership statistics. An average of to of households with access to CSN Philadelphia or CSN Mid-Atlantic view the network in a four-week period and an average of to in a one-week period. A reasonable estimate of the households that
11
[REDACTED]
[REDACTED]
[REDACTED]
[REDACTED]
12
 
6
 
      
would switch MVPDs to retain access to regional sports programming may be that it is comprised of those that watch an RSN on a weekly basis.
     20. An estimate of the minimum number of consumers likely to switch MVPDs can also be developed from instances in which regional sports programming has been withheld for short periods of time. In the , the Commission's staff estimated the effect of withdrawing the Yankees Entertainment and Sports Network (YES), a regional sports network carrying New York Yankees baseball games and New Jersey Nets basketball games, from Cablevision in 2002 and 2003. Cablevision is a cable operator whose cable systems are entirely within the New York DMA. DIRECTV was able to carry this regional sports programming during the period when Cablevision was unable to carry the programming. The number of additional subscribers that DIRECTV acquired during each month of the withdrawal was estimated using confidential information submitted under the protective orders in the proceeding. The resulting analysis is not available in the current record. Instead we rely on the analysis of Cablevision's SEC filings to examine the impact of temporary withholding of regional sports programming. The analysis indicates that, out of the 3 million subscribers and 4.3 million homes passed by Cablevision, it lost approximately 64,000 subscribers during the year it did not carry YES. This equates to a loss of 2.1% of its subscribers and 1.5% of its share of households.
News Corp.-Hughes Order
13
News Corp.-Hughes
14
III. APPLYING THE UNIFORM PRICE INCREASE MODEL TO REGIONAL SPORTS NETWORKS
     21. We use equation (4), above, to predict the transactions' impact on RSN affiliation fees. The equation requires a number of values. Since EchoStar and DIRECTV are the Applicants' largest competitors, we focus our analysis on the uniform price increase that would result if one of them were the target of the strategy. However, as the name indicates, a uniform price increase would be borne by all MVPDs.
     22. The Applicants have submitted estimates of the number of basic subscribers to cable systems they manage in each DMA for the period prior to and following the transactions. We adjust these totals by also including basic subscribers served by systems that are attributed to, but not managed by, the Applicants. Since the Applicants are unable to provide subscriber counts by DMA for some attributable non-managed systems, we must estimate the likely number of subscribers to these systems. Eighty-three DMAs are affected by this estimation procedure. We allocate the total number of current basic subscribers reported by the Applicants for each attributed non-managed entity to each of the communities served by the entity based on historical estimates of the basic cable subscribers in each of the communities. These community-level estimates are then aggregated at the DMA level to obtain an estimate of the number of attributable subscribers in each DMA. We then calculate an estimate of the fraction of homes each Applicant passes by dividing the number of attributable subscribers in each DMA by the total number of cable subscribers in the DMA as estimated by Nielsen Media Research.
Homes Passed by the Applicants.
15
16
     23. The uniform price increase model requires information on the change in the relative market shares of competing MVPDs when they do or do not
Relative Market Shares of Competing MVPDs.
 
7
 
carry the RSN. Our estimates of the impact of withholding based on the situations in San Diego and Philadelphia indicate that the share of households purchasing DBS service is between 33% and 40% lower in those DMAs than in areas where DBS can carry regional sports programming. We do not have any sources to estimate the impact on the market share of a DBS operator that does not carry regional sports programming when the unintegrated cable operator also does not carry the programming. Intuitively, we would expect the impact to be relatively minor since subscribers would have no incentive to switch between MVPDs. However, it is possible that there would be some impact, as some households might drop MVPD service altogether if regional sports programming becomes unavailable. Accordingly, we adopt two estimates of this value: 0% and 2%.
17
18
     24. The RSN's relative bargaining power is reflected in the  and  terms in equation (4). We do not have any information on the relative bargaining power of the parties; however, as long as the transactions do not change the amount of bargaining power, the relative increase in RSN affiliation fees is not influenced by the amount of bargaining power. As equations (2) and (3) indicate, bargaining power does influence the absolute price level. Throughout our analysis, we adopt a standard solution to bargaining games by assuming that the parties split the gains from trade ( = = 0.5).
Bargaining Power.
0
1
g
0
g
1
19
     25. The uniform price increase model requires the per-subscriber profit margin earned by the competing MVPD in order to use equations (2) and (3) to estimate the absolute impact of the transactions on RSN affiliation fees. No other party has proffered an alternative value, and we adopt DIRECTV's estimate of $23 per subscriber.
Profit Margin of the Competing MVPD.
20
     26. Using the values developed in the previous paragraphs, we estimate the percentage change, as a result of the transactions, in the affiliation fee of an RSN that is owned by the largest Applicant in a DMA using equation (4). We must make assumptions about the loss of subscribers if the MVPD chooses not to carry the RSN that other MVPDs in the area do carry. We adopt the assumption that the MVPD's share of subscribers would fall by 15% over an extended period of time. This value is less than the estimated effect in Philadelphia and San Diego and the fraction of households that watch Comcast's established RSNs on a weekly basis. We examine two sets of further assumptions to construct these estimates. The first set of assumptions relies on the simplifying assumption that the MVPD's market share when neither it nor a competing MVPD carries an RSN is the same as when both MVPDs carry the RSN ( = ). Under this simple assumption, the percentage change in the affiliation fee of the RSN simplifies to equation (5). The alternative assumption accounts for the possibility that some consumers will not purchase MVPD service when an RSN is not carried. Specifically, we assume that 2% of current MVPD customers would not purchase MVPD service if regional sports were not available from any of the MVPDs in the market.
Predicting the Transactions' Effect on RSN Affiliation Fees.
21
[REDACTED]
s
 
s
++
22
 
8
 
     27. There are 94 DMAs that are affected by the transactions. Under the simple assumption, the model of uniform price increases predicts that RSN fees will increase by at least 5% in 39 of the DMAs. When the alternative assumption is used, the model predicts increases of at least 5% in 36 DMAs. Table A-2 presents the estimated impact of the transactions in each of 39 Key DMAs. In addition, we estimate the net present value of the absolute increase in payments to an RSN using equations (2) and (3). Under either scenario, 15 Key DMAs are predicted to see an increase in RSN fees of at least 5%. The net present value of the increased payments for carriage of the RSNs in these 15 Key DMAs is million under the simple assumption and million under the alternative assumption.
23
24
[REDACTED]
[REDACTED]
     28. 
Table A-2
 
9
 
10
 
   The consolidated applications filed by Adelphia, Time Warner and Comcast include Commission authorizations and licenses listed in this Appendix. They are separated by the type of authorization or license, and, within each category, listed by licensee name, application or ULS file number, call sign or lead call sign (for ULS filings), and/or other service-specific information, as appropriate. Interested parties should refer to the applications for a more detailed listing of the authorizations or licenses. Each of the Applicants' subsidiaries or affiliates may hold multiple authorizations or licenses of a particular type. Additional applications may have to be filed to identify any additional authorizations involved in these transactions. The transactions involve a series of discrete phases or steps
Licenses to be assigned to
Time Warner NY Cable LLC
 
 
 
Licenses to be assigned to
CAC Exchange I LLC
License to be assigned to
CAP Exchange I LLC
Licenses to be assigned to
C-Native Exchange I, LLC (Pro forma)
Licenses to be assigned to
C-Native Exchange III, LP (Pro forma)
Two-Part Transactions
STEP 1
Licenses to be assigned to
Cable Holdco Exchange II LLC
Licenses to be assigned to
Cable Holdco Exchange I LLC
License to be assigned to
Cable Holdco Exchange IV-2, LLC
2
 
Licenses to be assigned to
Cable Holdco Exchange V, LLC
License to be assigned to
Cable Holdco II Inc. (Pro forma)
STEP 2
Control of licensee to be transferred to
Comcast Corporation
Control of licensee to be transferred to
Time Warner Inc.
3
 
Receive-Only Satellite Earth Stations (TVRO)
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
     The Applicants have filed four applications for consent to the transfer of control of domestic section 214 authority in connection with the transactions described above.
3
 
11
 
 
12
 
"Step-Two" Transactions
5
 
13
 
The table below cross-references the "step-one" assignment applications with the associated "step-two" transfer of control applications for the wireless radio licenses.
 
14
 
Re: , Memorandum Opinion and Order (MB Docket No. 05-192).
Applications for Consent to the Assignment and/or Transfer of Control of Licenses; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors, to Time Warner Cable Inc. (subsidiaries), Assignees; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors and Transferors, to Comcast Corporation (subsidiaries), Assignees and Transferees; Comcast Corporation, Transferor, to Time Warner Inc., Transferee; Time Warner Inc., Transferor to Comcast Corporation, Transferee
I am pleased that the Commission has voted to approve these transactions on a bipartisan basis. I believe that, on balance, the transactions as conditioned will further the public interest.
The acquisition of the Adelphia systems, currently in bankruptcy, should bring significant benefits to the customers of those systems. Comcast and Time Warner have committed to make long-needed upgrades to those systems to enable the rapid and widespread deployment of advanced services to Adelphia subscribers.
I was concerned that the transactions raised the potential for harm to competition in markets where Comcast or Time Warner has an affiliated regional sports network ("RSN"). As the Commission noted in its approval of News Corp.'s acquisition of DirecTV, viewers consider the programming that RSNs carry as "must have" TV. While a new entrant or competing multi-channel video programming distributor ("MVPD") could create a substitute if denied access to a local news channel, for instance, it could not create a substitute for the games of a popular local sports team. In North Carolina, there is no substitute for Tarheel basketball. As a result, we conditioned approval of the News Corp./DirecTV transaction on a requirement that News Corp. make its affiliated RSNs available to other MVPDs and, if the parties were not able to reach an agreement on the terms and conditions, the MVPD could request binding arbitration. We adopt the same condition here: Time Warner and Comcast must make their affiliated RSNs available to other MVPDs and, if the parties are not able to reach an agreement, the MVPD can request arbitration. I believe this condition addresses the potential for anti-competitive behavior and facilitates the ability of parties to compete with the incumbent cable operator, to the benefit of consumers.
The other Commissioners in the majority also tried to address a number of other potential harms. Commissioner Tate raised concerns about access to children's programming. Commissioner McDowell and Commissioner Adelstein raised concerns about MASN and other independent RSNs being carried, and Commissioner Adelstein also raised concerns about how other independent programmers could use our leased access rules. All four of us in the majority worked hard to address these concerns, and I appreciate all of their efforts. I am pleased that, in the end, we could find a way to address these concerns in a limited way and enhance consumers' access to a variety of programming and service options.
In the end there was still some disagreement on net neutrality. This should not be a surprise, as there is not consensus on net neutrality within the industry or among policy experts. I continue to support the principles we adopted last summer. However, I do not think requirements are necessary at this time without evidence of actual harm to consumers or internet users. The Commission has, and will continue to, monitor the situation and will not hesitate to take action to protect consumers when necessary.
 
 
Re: , Memorandum Opinion and Order (MB Docket No. 05-192).
Applications for Consent to the Assignment and/or Transfer of Control of Licenses; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors, to Time Warner Cable Inc. (subsidiaries), Assignees; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors and Transferors, to Comcast Corporation (subsidiaries), Assignees and Transferees; Comcast Corporation, Transferor, to Time Warner Inc., Transferee; Time Warner Inc., Transferor to Comcast Corporation, Transferee
     In transactions coming before this Commission, my obligation is to weigh their promised benefits against their potential harms. This particular transaction is not without positive attributes, but to me the potential harms clearly and substantially outweigh the benefits. That is why I will dissent from today's order. The potential for harm here is in the sheer economic power of distribution and content that can, and likely will, ensue. While rescuing Adelphia from the perils of bankruptcy is laudable, the anti-competitive division of assets proposed by the Applicants is not. The swapping of media properties contemplated by these two giants has the clear potential, even the probability, of limiting competition in numerous media markets across the country. Nothing in this Order can rebut the simple truth that less competition equals higher prices. Indeed, when you step back and look at the totality of these proposed transactions, the direction here is unmistakable: this decision is about Big Media getting bigger, with consumers left holding the bag. There are those in industry trying to lull America into complacency by claiming that media industry consolidation has run its course and we needn't worry about it any longer. This transaction proves them wrong. More than 3300 FCC approvals of media property assignment and transfer grants over the past three years prove them wrong. Believe me, this party is far from over.
     Let me state upfront that the Applicants come to us with what I believe is a commitment to update and upgrade the failing Adelphia cable systems. I commend their intention to modernize these networks. But it comes with too heavy a price tagswaps between Comcast and Time Warner that will result in even more cable concentration in numerous markets. If you live in Pennsylvania, Minnesota, Southern Florida, Washington, D.C., Maryland, Virginia, New England, Western New York, Ohio, Texas, Southern California, North Carolina or South Carolina, you will face increased concentration and all that it entails as a result of these swaps. In some markets, the percentage of homes covered will hover as high as 95 percent. The application and the Order may talk about "geographic rationalization" and "market clustering" in an effort to veil these swaps in something posing as economic logic. Don't buy it. Clever economic terms cannot mask what is a strategy to concentrate ownership and dismantle competition.
     As the Order itself acknowledges, it is totally unclear how any of these purported efficiencies and market rationalizations will flow through to benefit consumers. To the contrary, I fear consumers will end up finding their cable bills climbing still higher. Already cable bills rise at two to three times the rate of inflation. Since 1996, cable rates have risen by 68 percent. Do we really believe that more concentration will lead to a new era of lower rates? That would be a triumph of hope over history. My advice to consumers when they hear about the wonders of clustering and consolidation is to hold onto your pocketbooks. This is not a consumer-friendly transaction.
Competition
     I believe that forfeiting competition is bad for consumers and bad for the future of our media. I believe that ceding gatekeeper control over the content we receive in our homes to fewer and fewer media distributors is something that should alarm us. Combining content and conduit is, after all, the classic strategy for monopoly or control by a privileged few. It is not the recipe for innovation and lower consumer bills. When more than 30,000 individuals and organizations representing millions of others called upon the FCC to protect their rights in this proceeding, we should have paid heed. At the end of the day, I think the American people are owed both a more rigorous analysis of these issues and a better
2
 
outcome from the transaction than they will find in this decision.
     As one commenter in this proceeding put it, enhancing concentration by clustering markets creates a "fortress" that deters competitive entry. In fact, the Commission's own precedent bolsters this point. The Commission has found that cable systems owned by multiple system operators that are part of a regional clusteras the Applicants' systems are heretend to result in higher prices. So we have our own precedent telling us that as a result of the swaps and clustering in this deal, we will have less competition and higher prices. But the majority's decision glides right by this and blithely grants Comcast and Time Warner license to cluster, consolidate and non-compete. Though the item's language is dense and its reasoning is long, one thing is clear: it is consumers who are stuck with the consequences.
1
Programming Diversity
     Today's decision describes two types of programmingprogramming from networks affiliated with the Applicants and programming from independent programmers who are not affiliated with the Applicants.
     Affiliated programming presents special competitive concerns. Both Comcast and Time Warner have ownership stakes in popular cable channels. The Order finds that if an incumbent cable provider owns "must have" content, it has the abilityand perhaps the incentiveto deny that content to satellite companies, other cable providers, even the new IPTV networks from the telephone companies. That makes it difficult for these entities to compete. This finding is correct. The record shows that if you don't have access to regional sports games, it is hard to compete against the dominant cable provider. The Order limits, however, the definition of "must have" content to regional sports networks. But is sports programming the only "must have" programming? What if you only speak Spanish? Wouldn't a Spanish language channel be "must have"? How about local news? Children's programming? We ought to be careful before starting down the slippery slope of determining what is and isn't "must-have" cable content. Setting that aside, the Order imposes a commercial arbitration remedy to prevent the price hikes and competitive foreclosure that result from denying competitors access to affiliated regional sports networks. That's good, as far as it goes. But it inexplicably leaves out Philadelphia, where the vertically integrated sports network is locked up in exclusive deals with the incumbent cable provider. I have heard from a lot of people residing in the City of Brotherly Love and I feel confident in saying they are not happy about this situation. The majority has now made some tweaks on the margins to guard against further inroads beyond the city, but the residents of Philadelphia are still stuck without competitive choices. You don't have to take my word for itread yesterday's : "Philadelphia is Exhibit No. 1 for what happens when a cable company uses must-have content' to limit consumers' choice." The story goes on to call the majority's Philadelphia exclusion a "lousy argument" and makes the point that "Philadelphians deserve equal protection from the FCC." I agree.
Philadelphia Inquirer
     The availability of truly independent programming is another test of whether competition exists. Concentrating so much clout in the Applicants gives them the ability to make or break cable programming across the country. If an aspiring cable channel cannot win carriage on these big concentrated networks, its fate is sealed. It's doomed. And the record is full of examples of channels that will never get to your television and of communitiesespecially minority communitieswho struggle for basic access to programming they want and need. We need a system that works better for them and for all of usbetter program carriage rules, a better complaint process, a better and reinvigorated leased access system so other voices can be heard. I note that a commitment to review leased access and a related arbitration condition have now been added to the item by the majority and this is encouraging. I commend
 
3
 
particularly Commissioner Adelstein for his leadership on this. The proof of how well the Commission lives up to this commitment is down the road, of course, so I urge my leased access friends in localities throughout the country to push us hard to really deliver on this. We need to support independent programmers and independent content production. I'll say it again: we just cannot afford to cede so much content control to so few media companies. It's bad because of the homogenized entertainment and information we are fed and it's bad for our democracy. And what happens if these two companies refuse to take political advertisements for issues they oppose? It's like giving them the keys to control what we watch, see and hear.
     There is one aspect of independent programming where we make headway today. The Mid-Atlantic Sports Network, an independent regional sports network, has been struggling to get on the air in the Washington market. In our own backyard, subscribers to the dominant cable provider can't watch our hometown team's baseball games. This decision makes real progress, in that it requires Comcast to enter into commercial arbitration with the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network to hammer out a deal that can bring the Washington Nationals to Washington's homes. I believe this is the right thing to do. Many Members of Congress agree. Let me note especially the efforts of my new colleague, Commissioner McDowell. It is a good result. Going forward, this is only the tip of the iceberg, however, for independent programmers. While we solve this glaring issue for the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network, there are too many other independent programmers stuck without similar recourse.
Broadband and Net Neutrality
     We all know the future of communications is broadband. I am worried that this decision tightens the grip that cable companies share with telephone companies over our nation's broadband access. FCC data show that these two industries control some 98 percent of the broadband market. Despite this, the majority's Order goes on at length about the supposedly competitive broadband market. Indeed, the competitive picture the majority spins is at odds with too many other reports. A few weeks ago, the Congressional Research Service characterized the broadband market as a "cable and telephone duopoly." Just last week, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) released its Digital Opportunity Index. It's a more nuanced metric than the broadband penetration statistics the ITU employed to peg the United States at 16 in the world in broadband penetration this past year. On this new assessment of digital opportunity, your country and mine is ranked 21. Right after . . . Estonia. If we want to continue to lay claim to the United States as the Land of Opportunity, we'd better find a way to make this country the Land of Digital Opportunity. Placing more control in a handful of entrenched broadband providers may not be the best way to go about it.
th
st
     I also am disappointed that this Order gives such short shrift to network neutrality. It has been our practice to condition recent mergers of this scale on enforcement of the four principles of the Internet Policy Statement that the Commission adopted last year. But here we backtrack and are too timid to even apply them in an enforceable fashion to the transaction at hand. More than that, I believe the Commission needs to consider the addition of a fifth principle to its Internet Policy Statement. We are entering a world where big and concentrated broadband providers are searching for new business models and sometimes even suggesting that web sites may have to pay additional charges and new tolls for the traffic they generate. This could change the character of the Internet as we know it. To keep our policies current, we need to go beyond the original four principles and commit industry and the FCC to a specific principle of enforceable non-discrimination, one that allows for reasonable network management but makes clear that broadband network providers will not be allowed to shackle the promise of the Internet in its adolescence.
     There are other concerns I have with the majority's analysis. It dismisses concerns in the record about economic redlining, job losses, PEG channel commitments and key arguments about loss of viewpoint diversity without fully evaluating their merits. Each of these is important in its own right and each merits more careful handling than it receives here.
4
 
     In the end, the Applicants contend that the proposed transaction has four public interest benefits: a pledge to roll out new video services, efficiencies from "geographic rationalization," resolution of the bankruptcy and unwinding Comcast's interests in a limited partnership acquired in an earlier transaction. But even the Commission finds two of those four claimed benefits non-compelling. That leaves two assertions on which the majority rests its case. One is the promise to deploy new video services, but this is tempered by the majority's doubt that triple play broadband will be much enhanced by the transaction. Second is resolution of the bankruptcy, but no mention is made that other and less anti-competitive options could have accomplished a similar end. That doesn't leave much of a case to justify this kind of potential market disruption and additional industry consolidation.
     Just a few weeks ago, the Commission voted to revisit its broadcast ownership rules. I argued then for an open and transparent process and for doing independent and granular studies so as to understand what is happening in various media markets before we vote again to change the limits. I hope we will do just that. It's what we should be doing here, too. But today's action doesn't encourage me. We have cable ownership limits that were returned to the Commission years ago for study and reworking and they continue to languish with no action. Instead we plunge ahead to approve a huge transaction without the factual foundation we should have before changing the media environment so profoundly.
     As I have said before, mergers and acquisitions are not inherently bad. In the past I have supported mergers when the benefits truly outweigh the harms. As I mentioned upfront, there are some positives to be found in the revival and improvement of Adelphia's systems. But they cannot and do not overcome the broader negatives and consumer costs inherent in this mega-transaction. Because of the potential for harm and what I believe are inevitable higher costs for consumers, I do not join my colleagues in supporting this decision and will dissent from it.
5
 
Re: , Memorandum Opinion and Order (MB Docket No. 05-192).
Applications for Consent to the Assignment and/or Transfer of Control of Licenses; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors, to Time Warner Cable Inc. (subsidiaries), Assignees; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors and Transferors, to Comcast Corporation (subsidiaries), Assignees and Transferees; Comcast Corporation, Transferor, to Time Warner Inc., Transferee; Time Warner Inc., Transferor to Comcast Corporation, Transferee
     After more than a year, this Commission has finally completed its public interest review of the acquisition by Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") and Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC") of the cable systems and assets of Adelphia Communications Corporation ("Adelphia"), and related transactions in which Comcast and TWC will exchange various cable systems and assets, and expedite the redemption of Comcast's interests in TWC and Time Warner Entertainment Company ("TWE").
     At the outset, I must say that I share many of the concerns raised by opponents of this merger, and I might have preferred that Adelphia remain an independent entity, or that it be purchased by companies without the enormous market power that the Applicants have in some of Adelphia's service areas. Ultimately, though, the question is whether it is better for consumers for Adelphia to remain in bankruptcy, or for this transaction to proceed, with appropriate conditions.
     We do not choose the mergers that come before us. Faced with this merger, we must analyze the record evidence and determine whether the public will be served better by the transaction being approved or being denied, and what conditions may be necessary to mitigate harms to consumers. While I continue to have some concerns, I believe this acquisition, with the conditions we adopt in this Order, generates several ancillary benefits that, on balance, satisfy the Commission's statutory obligations to protect consumers. Because of the willingness of my colleagues to consider critical consumer protections that significantly mitigate some of the potential harms, I believe consumers will be better served by this transaction proceeding rather than allowing Adelphia to remain in bankruptcy while its customers watch their service continue to deteriorate.
     Notably, in seeking approval for this transaction, Comcast and TWC have pledged to invest over $1.6 billion to upgrade Adelphia's network, which should bring improved broadband service, access to voice over Internet protocol telephone service, video on demand and other innovations that are currently enjoyed by many customers of other cable and telephone companies. Most importantly, my support for this item is based on critical conditions that were included in our negotiations to protect sports fans' ability to get video access to their home teams, to promote the diversity of independent programming available to cable customers, and to ensure the video marketplace remains competitive.
     The underlying fact of this acquisition is that Comcast and TWC are buying a bankrupt cable company, Adelphia, whose five million subscribers and cable systems in 31 states are suffering from a severe lack of investment and a resulting deterioration of service in the course of a protracted bankruptcy and regulatory process. Adelphia, the nation's fifth largest cable operator, is essentially rotting on the vine awaiting the completion of this transaction, and as a result, its consumers are being further victimized by the fraud perpetrated by Adelphia's former executives.
     This transaction has the benefit of facilitating the successful resolution of the Adelphia bankruptcy proceeding. It also has the added benefit of unwinding Comcast's interests in TWC and TWE. Although Comcast and TWC have a preexisting obligation to unwind Comcast's interests, their continued financial entanglement has long been a significant concern to this Commission and many of us
6
 
who are worried about the implications of those ties for media consolidation.
     In the final analysis, both Comcast and TWC will remain below the Commission's thirty-percent cable ownership limits post-transaction. Nevertheless, while there are meritorious reasons to support the instant acquisition, there are potential public interest harms that compelled the adoption of essential program access and program carriage conditions to preserve and enhance a competitive video market.
defacto
2
     Based on my review of the record, there is a reasonable likelihood that this transaction could increase the incentive for Comcast or TWC to foreclose or engage in other anticompetitive practices against independent, unaffiliated programmers. Congress specifically authorized commercial leased access for unaffiliated programmers to gain reasonable access to cable systems, and empowered the Commission to create a pricing regime and complaint process. Unfortunately, while it was widely recognized that cable operators had the incentive and ability to prefer their own programming, or the programming of another operator, rather than an independent programmer, the Commission's pricing regime and complaint process have not facilitated the use of leased access.
     I am pleased that my colleagues are sensitive to this problem and to the potentially increased harm this transaction would have on small, independent, unaffiliated programmers. Accordingly, this Order provides aggrieved independent programmers with the option to seek arbitration in the event there is a dispute with the cable operator over the terms and conditions.
     Also, because the Commission's price formula currently allows cable operators to gain full compensation for all potential costs or risks that leased access might impose on cable subscribers, cable operators may not be offering independent programmers a reasonable, justifiable rate to provide access. I am especially pleased that the Chairman and my colleagues agreed to launch an NPRM within three months on the broader issue of leased access that will address these concerns about pricing and other issues. This, combined with the condition on the merger, presents a real opportunity to revitalize a moribund program, so that it can reach the potential Congress envisioned in promoting diversity of programming available to cable consumers. I especially want to thank Chairman Martin for agreeing with me to move that NPRM to a final order in a reasonable period of time. I would also thank Harold Feld and the Media Access Project for their leadership in bringing this to the attention of the Commission, and for making a real difference in the final product.
     In addressing another concern, Commission analysis determined that increased geographic clustering resulting from this acquisition would indeed make it more likely for Comcast or TWC to engage in certain anticompetitive practices. This could effectively foreclose overbuilders, satellite and telephone distribution competitors from gaining access to "must have" regional sports programming owned or controlled, in whole or in part, by Comcast and TWC. While the parties argued that geographic clustering generates certain economies of scale and efficiency, there is a real opportunity for abuse here, as well. The Order acknowledges that consumers will gain little measurable benefit from
3
 
7
 
clustering. I share Commissioner Copps' concern about the potential abuse of market power such concentration may permit in local markets where clustering is occurring.
     In analyzing the likely impact of this transaction on the relevant video distribution and programming markets, the Commission found that Comcast and TWC would have the increased incentive and ability to adopt certain stealth discriminatory practices, such as "uniform overcharge pricing." As a result, in this Order, the Commission prohibits Comcast and TWC from either their affiliated RSNs to a video distributor on an exclusive basis or into any exclusive distribution arrangement with their affiliated RSNs, notwithstanding the terrestrial exemption to the program access rules. Additionally, we also provide aggrieved video distributors with the option to seek binding commercial arbitration to settle disputes concerning terms and conditions.
offering
entering
     I am pleased that my colleagues agreed to "grandfather" cable operators that currently have access to Philadelphia Sports Net, in order to refrain from disenfranchising hundreds of thousands of Philadelphia sports fans. As a result, customers of competitive cable operators in the Philadelphia market will not have to worry about being cut off from watching their favorite sports teams. Now these Philadelphia-area cable operators, similar to other operators seeking access to affiliated RSN programming across the country, will have the opportunity to request arbitration to determine the terms and conditions of future contracts.
     At my urging, the Commission also agreed to impose the program access and arbitration conditions to all "affiliated" RSNs in which Comcast or TWC have management control or an option to purchase an attributable interest. This extension should capture RSNs in which Comcast or TWC do not have an ownership interests, but have a relationship that effectively operates like one.
     I am concerned, though, that we do not address in the item those financial relationships that significantly lower the net effective rate that applicants pay for the RSN programming. Using arrangement like marketing or sales agreements, competitors have alleged that the applicants can artificially raise the rate that competitors must pay for RSN programming, while insulating themselves from the full impact of the rates by cross-subsidizing it with other "backroom" deals. The Commission should remain vigilant about such arrangements and explore it through the rulemaking process. In that regard, I thank the Chairman for his commitment to launch an NPRM regarding our cable ownership attribution rules that will include questions about this practice.
     I dissent in part from this Order because I am particularly concerned that the Commission fails to adopt explicit, enforceable provisions to preserve and promote the open and interconnected nature of the Internet. The Internet has been a source of remarkable innovation and has opened a new world of social and economic opportunities. One reason that it is such a transformative tool is its openness and diversity. To help preserve this character, the FCC last fall adopted an Internet Policy Statement that sets out a basic set of consumer expectations for broadband providers and the Internet. With these four principles, we sought to ensure that consumers are entitled to access the lawful Internet content of their choice, to run applications and use services of their choice, subject to the needs of law enforcement, and to connect their choice of legal devices that do not harm the network. I am deeply concerned that the majority does not require the applicants to meet these basic provisions adopted unanimously by the Commission and applied as enforceable conditions to the mergers of our nation's largest telephone companies, less than a year ago.
     It is a major step back to let these large media conglomerates, including two of the nation's largest broadband providers, grow even bigger without requiring that they comply with basic network neutrality principles. The majority's decision to backtrack from earlier Commission precedent is particularly troubling given that we should be thinking about how to enhance our consumer protections in the broadband world, not to erode them. We continue to see a broadband market in which, according to FCC statistics, telephone and cable operators control nearly 98 percent of the market, with many
8
 
consumers lacking any meaningful choice of providers. Given the increase in concentration and the significant combinations of content and services presented in this transaction, this Commission should even be looking to add a principle to address incentives for anti-competitive discrimination, in addition to imposing those principles the Commission already has unanimously approved. Without even the bare minimum of enforceable provisions to address these issues in the context of this merger, I must dissent in part.
     I am also pleased that my colleagues made efforts to address concerns about sports and children's programming that deserved attention. I commend Commissioner McDowell for his leadership in ensuring fair treatment for the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network in its carriage dispute with Comcast, and Commissioner Tate for her efforts to help resolve concerns about the provisioning of PBS Sprout to a competing cable provider.
     I want to thank my colleagues for their willingness to consider so many of my concerns and adopt meaningful conditions to address potential anti-competitive harms to consumers. Their cooperation enabled me to support in part this item.
9
 
Re: , Memorandum Opinion and Order (MB Docket No. 05-192).
Applications for Consent to the Assignment and/or Transfer of Control of Licenses; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors, to Time Warner Cable Inc. (subsidiaries), Assignees; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors and Transferors, to Comcast Corporation (subsidiaries), Assignees and Transferees; Comcast Corporation, Transferor, to Time Warner Inc., Transferee; Time Warner Inc., Transferor to Comcast Corporation, Transferee
     The Communications Act requires the parties in these applications to demonstrate that allowing this transaction to go forward will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity. I have carefully reviewed the thoughtful comments provided by numerous parties  from the America Channel to the Urban League of Greater Hartford and everyone in between. Based on this review, I have concluded that the applicants have met the standards dictated by the statute, and I therefore support this Order.
     In proceedings such as this, the burden is on the Applicants to show by a preponderance of the evidence that the proposed transactions would benefit the public interest more than it would harm it. The Commission's review is limited to the transaction presented, and it should not attempt to use this Order to conduct an industry-wide rulemaking. Accordingly, the conditions that we impose today are limited to merger-specific issues that remedy identified harms that might otherwise occur. That said, many of the concerns raised in the comments implicate serious questions about the underlying cable ownership rules that I hope we can address on an industry-wide basis in other proceedings pending at the Commission in the near future.
     With regard to this item, I have met with the Applicants and received numerous assurances about how they will behave following the completion of the proposed transaction. Let me respond to those assurances with one of my own: I intend to see that promises made are promises kept.
     The FCC  following the lead of the President of the United States  has made deployment of broadband to all Americans a top priority. This deployment is critical to our nation's competitiveness in the global economy and to our national security. It implicates every aspect of our lives  from health to education to public safety. All consumers should expect to benefit from this technology. I have been repeatedly assured that broadband and other services will be deployed on a fair, equitable, and expedited basis to the areas served by these companies. Given the importance of this deployment, let me make it absolutely clear that so-called redlining  the distribution of services based solely on the ethnicity or income level of an area  will not be tolerated. Period.
     I am also troubled by the continued reports of the difficulty that smaller, independent channels have in getting carriage on cable systems. The names Comcast and Time Warner frequently are invoked by these smaller programmers as  and I'll put it diplomatically here  being difficult to work with on this issue. It is in the public interest to have a diversity of voices on the air. When the America Channel is seen by more people outside the United States than in it, when Hispanic-focused channels have trouble getting carriage in Los Angeles and other large Hispanic markets  when I hear these and other similar reports I am far from convinced that cable providers are doing an adequate job in promoting a diversity of voices on television.
     Nonetheless, I am not willing to combat allegations of unfairness with an unfair act of our own. Addressing industry-wide problems on a case-by-case basis only undermines the development of a truly competitive marketplace, and such onerous conditions have no place in an Order by a Commission committed to helping American businesses stay ahead in an increasingly competitive world. The Commission once again takes steps in line with my own philosophy of regulatory humility and resists the
10
 
temptation to burden the market with rules and regulations that would stifle innovation and growth.
     I do, however, think the time has come to reenergize the cable ownership discussion at the FCC. The Act requires us to develop meaningful protections through our rulemaking process to ensure that the incentives created by vertical integration of cable systems with affiliated programming do not unreasonably restrict the flow of independent programming to consumers. The comments that have come to my attention  comments including statements like "unlawful refusal," "intimidation," and "coercion"  are serious allegations. I call on the parties that have raised these allegations to refresh the record with updated filings and to join us in a renewed dialog about how the FCC can promote the public interest in a diversity of voices while still allowing cable operators the freedom to make sound business decisions.
     I know that there are many people from across this country who are concerned about this transaction. Many have filed comments and been extremely helpful in shaping the discussions related to these transactions. I hope that they will continue to be helpful by assisting the FCC in monitoring the implementation of this Order. The Order notes many of the ways that parties can seek redress for the specific concerns that have been raised in this process:
I encourage consumers and programmers and anyone else to avail themselves of those mechanisms if they feel they have been treated unfairly by these or any other service providers out there.
     I am pleased to note that this proceeding has also led to some resolution of the issue concerning access to PBSKids Sprout. PBS creates publicly-funded, noncommercial programming, which makes it unique among programming providers in America. Its unique nature and inherent public interest value should not and can not be allowed to be used by company as leverage in negotiations with another company that wants to provide this programming to its subscribers. By making PBS Sprout available to other Video-on-Demand platforms, Comcast has committed to making this important children's programming as widely available as possible. The FCC should not be in the business of writing contracts between private companies, and the resolution of this issue through private rather than regulatory means recognizes the unique nature of PBS programming, but does not impose onerous burdens on Comcast's ability to make business decisions.
any
     Finally, I want to take a moment to recognize that while there are concerns and criticisms of the cable industry that have taken a center stage in this proceeding, the parties to this proceeding  and many others in the industry  have been good corporate citizens. These companies dedicate considerable amounts of time, money, and energy to the communities they serve. Their charitable endeavors have made a difference to thousands of lives. Moreover, they have, in some cases, worked to use the power of the media to make a positive difference in people's lives. From educating the public on how to control the content that enters their homes to the enormously successful Cable in the Classroom program to support for public affairs programming like C-SPAN, these companies have worked to inform, educate,
11
 
and inspire the American people through the power of media. Yes, I would like to see them do more, and I have and will continue to say so. But by expressing that desire, I do not in any way mean to suggest that they do not deserve credit for all that they have already accomplished.
     I thank the Chairman, my fellow Commissioners, and the dedicated FCC staff for their hard work on this item. I particularly want to thank all those who filed thoughtful comments and excellent legal analysis which contributed to this important debate. I look forward to a continuing dialog with all parties in the coming months.
12
 
Re: , Memorandum Opinion and Order (MB Docket No. 05-192).
Applications for Consent to the Assignment and/or Transfer of Control of Licenses; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors, to Time Warner Cable Inc. (subsidiaries), Assignees; Adelphia Communications Corporation (and subsidiaries, debtors-in-possession), Assignors and Transferors, to Comcast Corporation (subsidiaries), Assignees and Transferees; Comcast Corporation, Transferor, to Time Warner Inc., Transferee; Time Warner Inc., Transferor to Comcast Corporation, Transferee
     I support the Commission's decision to approve this transaction. Clearly, the merger will benefit consumers, particularly those who continue to be served by Adelphia during its lengthy bankruptcy proceeding, by creating synergies that will spur investment, create efficiencies and speed the roll-out of competitive new technologies.
     However, it has become clear to me through this merger review process that the Commission's regulations governing program carriage agreements and program access by MVPDs for years have not been enforced in the expeditious manner contemplated by Congress and our own rules. Although the substance of these regulations provides MVPDs and programmers with standards and processes for redress of their program access and program carriage disputes with cable providers, very few parties have filed complaints to adjudicate their disputes. Those that are filed often wait too long for resolution. In fact, it seems that many disputes are never resolved. Why? Because the FCC has not been doing its job. The parties to these complaints deserve better treatment from this Commission. More importantly, so do consumers. Competition, in this quickly evolving market, should not be held back by an indolent bureaucracy's failure to obey simple Congressional mandates. Speedy resolution of disputes is critical, especially where regional sports networks are concerned. When a programmer or an MVPD is unable to air games at the start of a season, the competitive damage to its business has already been done. The FCC's inaction should not be responsible for such a delay. Accordingly, I strongly support the commitment by the Commission to review and reform the procedures for enforcement of its program access and program carriage rules. And I applaud the commitment to do so in short order.
     In the meantime, part of what the Commission is doing today is to pave a path toward a private sector solution to resolve program access disputes. Of course, our preference is that conflicts be resolved and deals be made without parties having to resort to litigation or arbitration. This Order provides incentives for such resolutions. However, should parties refuse to negotiate or fail to agree, we are paving a path toward private sector binding arbitration, with the ultimate destination being final resolution. With a two-step analysis commencing with a determination of whether carriage should be required at all, followed by baseball-style arbitration to determine rates, terms and conditions, no particular outcome is guaranteed. Furthermore, no new legal standards are being created. However, to ensure speedy resolution, we are imposing a "shot clock" on all proceedings, including any relevant Commission review of arbitration decisions. Again, arbitration can be avoided if parties make deals. But, should arbitration be necessary, it will be concluded swiftly and at minimal cost. This dispute resolution framework is used successfully thousands of times per day throughout the country in the private sector, and we are confident that it will be just as successful in this context as well. We believe all parties will benefit, especially the American consumer.
     For similar reasons, I also wholeheartedly support binding arbitration of the dispute between the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network and Comcast over carriage of the Washington Nationals games. Protracted negotiations and legal wrangling between the parties somehow have failed to produce televised coverage of 75 percent of this season's games for the 1.3 million Comcast subscribers in the Washington D.C. market. And, apparently, the MASN complaint has been left to rot in some lost crypt inside this building. Accordingly, the narrow arbitration remedy in the Order creates a private-sector solution to the dispute.
13
 
     This remedy also does not dictate a particular outcome, nor does it create a new legal standard for reviewing program carriage issues. It does, however, provide for a timely and long-overdue decision that will break the long-standing impasse between MASN and Comcast. One way or the other, a decision will be made. Of course, the parties are free to resolve the dispute beforehand, at any time.
     I would like to thank my fellow Commissioners for their hard work on this important matter. The lights have been burning late here at the FCC recently. Many thanks to Commissioner Tate for her insight  especially regarding children's programming. Thank you, Commissioner Adelstein, for your efforts regarding program access and carriage. Commissioner Copps, many thanks for initiating the conversation on net neutrality. I appreciate your thoughtfulness and look forward to additional dialogue. And lastly, Mr. Chairman, thank you for your leadership, especially working so hard into the wee hours.
     I thank Donna Gregg and the Media Bureau staff for their dedication and hard work on this item. I look forward to our review and reform of our rules.
14

 
Exhibit 10.43
                    
Released: July 27, 2006
By the Chief, Media Bureau:
     1. On July 21, 2006, the Commission released a (FCC 06-105) in the above-captioned proceeding. This Erratum corrects that document as indicated.
Memorandum Opinion and Order
     2. The words "Comcast Communications Corporation" are corrected to read as "Comcast Corporation" in: (1) line II.B. of the Table of Contents; (2) the heading for Section II.B., before paragraph 7; (3) the first sentence of paragraph one; and (4) the Definitions section of Appendix B.
     3. The words "TWE Redemption Transaction" are corrected to read as "TWE and Time Warner Cable Redemption Transactions" in: (1) line X.C. of the Table of Contents and (2) the heading for Section X.C., before paragraph 309.
     4. In the second sentence of footnote 19, the word "virtually" is deleted. Also in footnote 19, the third sentence, which reads, "Separately, Adelphia will transfer a small number of subscribers
 
from the Century-TCI partnerships directly to Time Warner.", is deleted.
1
     5. In the first sentence of paragraph 13, the word "Following" is amended to "Prior to". Also in paragraph 13, the last sentence, which reads, "In addition, Time Warner Cable would pay Comcast $1.9 billion in cash.", is amended to read, "In addition, the Time Warner Cable subsidiary would hold $1.9 billion in cash."
2
     6. In footnote 57, after the words "Public Interest Statement at 3;" the following words are inserted, "at Ex. A, Asset Purchase Agreement between Adelphia Communications Corp. and Time Warner NY Cable LLC, Section 2.8, at 53". Also in footnote 57, the word "segment" is deleted.
id.
3
     7. In the first sentence of paragraph 14, the word "Next" is deleted and the first letter of the word "under" is capitalized. Also in paragraph 14, the last sentence, which reads, "In addition, TWE would pay $133 million in cash to Comcast.", is amended to read, "In addition, the limited liability company would hold $133 million in cash."
     8. In the first sentence of paragraph 22, the word "related" is deleted.
     9. In the last sentence of paragraph 46, the words "and certain other systems acquired from Adelphia" are deleted.
4
     10. In paragraph 54, in the seventh sentence, the words "prior to the closing date of the transactions," are amended to read, "within 90 days after consummation of the transactions" and the words "will be in compliance with the requirements of section 76.504 after the transactions." are amended to read, "is in compliance with the requirements of section 76.504."
     11. In footnote 877, the word "received" is changed to "retained".
     12. In the first sentence of paragraph 289, the words "in exchange for certain cable systems and cash" are amended to "in exchange for subsidiaries holding certain cable systems and cash".
     13. In footnote 911, the two references to "Time Warner" are amended to "Time Warner Cable" in the sentence that begins "Such assets include . . . ." In the second sentence of paragraph 309, the two references to "Time Warner" are amended to "Time Warner Cable".
 
 
     14. In the fifth sentence of paragraph 310, the word "partnership" is amended to "Interest". In the sixth sentence of paragraph 310, the words "unwinding of TWE" are amended to "unwinding of the TWE Interest".
     15. In paragraph 314, the words "within 60 days of consummation" are amended to read "within 60 days after consummation".
     16. Paragraph 315 is amended to read "IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that within 90 days after consummation of the transactions, Time Warner and Comcast each provide to the Office of the Secretary of the Commission an affidavit, signed by a competent officer of the companies, certifying without qualification that the requirements of section 76.504 of the Commission's rules, 47 C.F.R.  76.504, have been satisfied."
     17. This action is taken under delegated authority pursuant to section 0.283 of the Commission's rules.
5
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
Donna C. Gregg Chief, Media Bureau
 

 
Exhibit 10.45
1. Purpose of the Plan
     The purpose of the Plan is to aid the Company and its Affiliates in recruiting and retaining employees, directors and advisors and to motivate such employees, directors and advisors to exert their best efforts on behalf of the Company and its Affiliates by providing incentives through the granting of Awards. The Company expects that it will benefit from the added interest which such employees, directors and advisors will have in the welfare of the Company as a result of their proprietary interest in the Company's success.
2. Definitions
     The following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
     (i) any "Person" within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Act (other than (a) the Company or any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company; or (b) Time Warner Inc. or any successor to Time Warner Inc.) becomes the "Beneficial Owner" within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Act of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors at a time that Time Warner Inc. or any successor controls less than a majority of such voting power; , , any circumstance in which such beneficial ownership resulted from any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or
excluding
however
 
related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or by any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the Company;
     (ii) a change in the composition of the Board since the Effective Date, such that the individuals who, as of such date, constituted the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board; any individual who becomes a director of the Company subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by either (a) the vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board or (b) Time Warner Inc., a successor to Time Warner Inc. or subsidiaries of Time Warner Inc. or a successor to Time Warner Inc., at a time that Time Warner Inc. or a successor to Time Warner Inc. controls a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company, shall be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board; and , that any individual who was initially elected as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-12 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Act, or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person or Entity other than the Board shall not be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board;
Incumbent Board
provided that
provided further
     (iii) a reorganization, recapitalization, merger or consolidation (a "") involving the Company, unless securities representing more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company or the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction (or the parent of such corporation) are held subsequent to such transaction either (a) by the person or persons who were the beneficial holders of the outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction or (b) by the person or persons who were the beneficial holders of the outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of Time Warner Inc. or any successor to Time Warner Inc. immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, if such Corporate Transaction occurs at a time that Time Warner Inc. or a successor to Time Warner Inc. controls a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Company;; or
Corporate Transaction
     (iv) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
 
 
3. Shares Subject to the Plan
     The total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is 100,000,000. Any Shares issued in connection with Awards other than Option or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this authorization as the number of Shares equal to the Ratio for every one Share issued in connection with such Award or by which the Award is valued by reference. Any shares issued in connection with Awards of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this limit as one share for every one share issued. The maximum aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted during a calendar year, net of any Shares which are subject to Awards (or portions thereof) which, during such year, terminate or lapse without payment of consideration, shall be equal to 1.5% of the number of Shares outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year; for the year ended December
provided that
 
31, 2006 if such number of outstanding shares is less than one billion, such number shall be deemed to be one billion. The maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted during a calendar year to any Participant shall be 1,500,000; the maximum number of Shares that may be awarded in the form of Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards payable in Shares during any calendar year to any Participant shall be 1,500,000 divided by the Ratio. The number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the full number of Shares covered by Awards granted under the Plan (including, without limitation, the full number of Shares covered by any Stock Appreciation Right, regardless of whether any such Stock Appreciation Right or other Award covering Shares under the Plan is ultimately settled in cash or by delivery of Shares); , that the number of Shares covered by Awards (or portions thereof) that are forfeited or that otherwise terminate or lapse without the payment of consideration in respect thereof shall again become available for issuance under the Plan; and that any Shares that are forfeited after the actual issuance of such Shares to a Participant under the Plan shall not become available for re-issuance under the Plan.
provided that
provided, however
provided further
4. Administration
 
5. Limitations
6. Terms and Conditions of Options
     Options granted under the Plan shall be, as determined by the Committee, nonqualified or incentive stock options for federal income tax purposes, as evidenced by the related Award agreements, and shall be subject to the foregoing and the following terms and conditions and to such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent therewith, as the Committee shall determine, and as evidenced by the related Award agreement:
 
 
7. Terms and Conditions of Stock Appreciation Rights
 
8. Restricted Stock
 
9. Other Stock-Based Awards
 
10. Adjustments Upon Certain Events
     Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan to the contrary, the following provisions shall apply to all Awards granted under the Plan:
 
11. No Right to Employment or Awards
     The granting of an Award under the Plan shall impose no obligation on the Company or any Affiliate to continue the Employment of a Participant and shall not lessen or affect the Company's or Subsidiary's right to terminate the Employment of such Participant. No Participant or other person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants, or holders of Awards. The terms and conditions of Awards and the Committee's determinations and interpretations with respect thereto need not be the same with respect to each Participant (whether or not such Participants are similarly situated).
 
12. Successors and Assigns
     The Plan shall be binding on all successors and assigns of the Company and a Participant, including without limitation, the estate of such Participant and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Participant's creditors.
13. Non-transferability of Awards
     Unless otherwise determined by the Committee (and subject to the limitation that in no circumstances may an Award be transferred by the Participant for consideration or value), an Award shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. An Award exercisable after the death of a Participant may be exercised by the legatees, personal representatives or distributees of the Participant.
14. Amendments or Termination
     The Board or the Committee may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made, (a) without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, if such action would (except as is provided in Section 10 of the Plan), increase the total number of Shares reserved for the purposes of the Plan or increase the maximum number of Shares of Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards that may be awarded hereunder, or the maximum number of Shares for which Awards may be granted to any Participant, (b) without the consent of a Participant, if such action would diminish any of the rights of the Participant under any Award theretofore granted to such Participant under the Plan or (c) to Section 5(b), relating to repricing of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, to permit such repricing; , , that the Committee may amend the Plan in such manner as it deems necessary to permit the granting of Awards meeting the requirements of the Code or other applicable laws.
provided
however
     Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to the extent applicable, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Plan and Awards issued hereunder shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretative guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the Committee determines that any amounts payable hereunder will be taxable to a Participant under Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance, prior to payment to such Participant of such amount, the Company may (a) adopt such amendments to the Plan and Awards and appropriate policies and procedures, including amendments and policies with retroactive effect, that the Committee determines necessary or appropriate to preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided by the Plan and Awards hereunder and/or (b) take such other
 
actions as the Committee determines necessary or appropriate to avoid or limit the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code.
15. International Participants
     With respect to Participants who reside or work outside the United States of America and who are not (and who are not expected to be) "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, amend the terms of the Plan or Awards with respect to such Participants in order to conform such terms with the requirements of local law or to obtain more favorable tax or other treatment for a Participant, the Company or an Affiliate.
16. Other Benefit Plans
     All Awards shall constitute a special incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be taken into account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participant for the purpose of determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance or other benefit plan of the Company or under any agreement between the Company and the Participant, unless such plan or agreement specifically provides otherwise.
17. Choice of Law
     The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to conflicts of laws, and except as otherwise provided in the pertinent Award agreement, any and all disputes between a Participant and the Company or any Affiliate relating to an Award shall be brought only in a state or federal court of competent jurisdiction sitting in Manhattan, New York.
18. Effectiveness of the Plan
     The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date.
19. Section 409A
     Notwithstanding other provisions of the Plan or any Award agreements thereunder, no Award shall be granted, deferred, accelerated, extended, paid out or modified under this Plan in a manner that would result in the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code upon a Participant. In the event that it is reasonably determined by the Committee that, as a result of Section 409A of the Code, payments in respect of any Award under the Plan may not be made at the time contemplated by the terms of the Plan or the relevant Award agreement, as the case may be, without causing the Participant holding such Award to be subject to taxation under Section 409A of the Code, the Company will make such payment on the first day that would not result in the Participant incurring any tax liability under Section 409A of the Code.

 
Exhibit 10.46
EXECUTION COPY
     This MASTER DISTRIBUTION, DISSOLUTION AND COOPERATION AGREEMENT, dated as of January 1, 2007 (this ""), is entered into by and among Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), as assignor of the assets and liabilities to be distributed hereunder, Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership, as assignee of the other TWI Partner (the ""), Comcast TCP Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as assignee of the other Comcast Partners (the "", and together with the TWI Assignee, the ""), each of the Partners, each of the TWI Transferred Subsidiaries (as defined below), each of the Comcast Transferred Subsidiaries (as defined below) and Comcast Distribution LLC (as defined below). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Partnership Agreement (as defined below).
Agreement
Partnership
TWI Assignee
Comcast Assignee
Assignees
     WHEREAS, each Partner is a party to that certain Limited Partnership Agreement of the Partnership, dated as of June 23, 1998, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 11, 1998, Amendment No. 2, dated as of May 16, 2000, Amendment No. 3, dated as of August 23, 2000, Amendment No. 4, dated as of May 1, 2004, and Amendment No. 5, dated as of February 28, 2005 (as amended, the "");
Partnership Agreement
     WHEREAS, the Partners intend for the Partnership to be dissolved in accordance with the dissolution provisions of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6  17-101 . .) (the "") and pursuant to the Dissolution Procedure set forth in Section 8.4 of the Partnership Agreement;
et
seq
DRULPA
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.4(a) of the Partnership Agreement, the Comcast Partners initiated a Dissolution Procedure by delivering a Dissolution Notice to the TWI Partners on July 3, 2006;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.4(b) of the Partnership Agreement, the Comcast Partners delivered an Allocation Notice to the TWI Partners on July 3, 2006;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.4(c) of the Partnership Agreement, the TWI Partners delivered a written notice to the Comcast Partners on August 1, 2006, identifying the Kansas & SW Asset Pool as the Asset Pool selected by them to be distributed to them in connection with the Dissolution Procedure;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.4(h)(ii) of the Partnership Agreement, the TWI Partners have elected to have the Kansas & SW Asset Pool distributed to the TWI Assignee, as a designee (as defined in Section 8.4(h)(v) of the Partnership Agreement) of the TWI Partners, and the Comcast Partners have elected to have the
 
Houston Asset Pool distributed to the Comcast Assignee, as a designee (as defined in Section 8.4(h)(v) of the Partnership Agreement) of the Comcast Partners, in each case, in complete redemption of the Interests (except to the extent relating to any TWI Delayed Asset or Comcast Delayed Asset, as applicable) of such Partners in the Partnership, subject to the terms and conditions of the Partnership Agreement and this Agreement;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.4(l) of the Partnership Agreement, the Partners, their designees, the Partnership and the Subsidiaries, as appropriate, have agreed to execute and deliver, in each case as of the Distribution Date with respect to the relevant Asset Pool, (i) appropriate assignment agreements to effectuate the transfer of applicable Assets to the Receiving Partners (or their designees or to a Subsidiary of the Partnership that will be transferred as provided herein), (ii) appropriate assumption agreements pursuant to which the Receiving Partners (or their designees or a Subsidiary of the Partnership that will be transferred as provided herein) will assume all Liabilities (as defined therein) attributable to the Asset Pool being distributed to them and (iii) appropriate indemnities to the other set of Related Partners for any losses such Partners may suffer with respect to any of such Liabilities assumed by the Receiving Partners (or their designees or a Subsidiary of the Partnership, as applicable);
     WHEREAS, also pursuant to Section 8.4(l) of the Partnership Agreement, each set of Related Partners has agreed to execute (or cause their designees to execute) other agreements and instruments reasonably necessary to ensure an orderly winding up of the affairs of the Partnership and its Subsidiaries, including customary agreements providing for cooperation with respect to post-dissolution tax audits and controversies, sharing of information, record retention, and defense of third-party claims;
     WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 4.5(n) of the Partnership Agreement, the Partnership has obtained the unanimous written consent of the members of the Management Committee to redeem the entire Interest (except to the extent relating to any TWI Delayed Asset or Comcast Delayed Asset, as applicable) of each Partner of the Partnership on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Partnership Agreement;
     WHEREAS, in furtherance of the Dissolution Procedure and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, (A) (i) the Partnership shall directly or indirectly transfer all of its (and its Subsidiaries') interest in the TWI Transferred Assets (as defined herein) to the TWI Assignee and the TWI Assignee shall accept such interest in the TWI Transferred Assets and (ii) the Partnership shall redeem the entire Interest of each TWI Partner (except to the extent relating to any TWI Delayed Asset) and (B) (i) the Partnership shall directly or indirectly transfer all of its (and its Subsidiaries') interest in the Comcast Transferred Assets (as defined herein) to the Comcast Assignee and the Comcast Assignee shall accept such interest in the Comcast Transferred Assets and (ii) the Partnership shall redeem the entire Interest (except to the extent relating to any Comcast Delayed Asset) of each of Comcast Partner;
 
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.4(n) of the Partnership Agreement, the parties intend that (i) the Kansas & SW Asset Pool shall be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having been distributed to the TWI Assignee in complete redemption of all Interests in the Partnership held by the TWI Partners on August 1, 2006 and (ii) the Houston Asset Pool shall be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having been distributed to the Comcast Assignee in complete redemption of all Interests in the Partnership held by the Comcast Partners on August 1, 2006; and
     WHEREAS, upon the completion of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and at the time set forth herein, the Partners desire to wind up the Partnership and to cancel the certificate of limited partnership of the Partnership in accordance with Section 17-203 of the DRULPA.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises made herein and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
     Section 1.1 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings.
Definitions
          (a) "" means any demand, action, suit, countersuit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any federal, state, local, foreign or international Governmental Authority or any arbitration or mediation tribunal.
Action
          (b) "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Agreement
          (c) "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Assignees
          (d) "" means the Comcast Assumed Liabilities and the TWI Assumed Liabilities.
Assumed Liabilities
          (e) "" means an interest rate per annum equal to the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City.
Base Interest Rate
          (f) "" means the forms of Bill of Sale and Assignment and Assumption Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A and Exhibit C, as applicable.
Bill of Sale
 
          (g) "" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banks in New York, New York are authorized or required to be closed.
Business Day
          (h) "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Comcast Assignee
          (i) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5 of this Agreement.
Comcast Assumed Liabilities
          (j) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement.
Comcast Cash Amount
          (k) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b)(i) of this Agreement.
Comcast Contracts
          (l) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.9 of this Agreement.
Comcast Delayed Asset
          (m) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(a) of this Agreement.
Comcast Distributed Systems
          (n) "" means Houston TKCCP Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company that is a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Partnership.
Comcast Distribution LLC
          (o) "" means $35,633,484.00, the estimated amount of cash in the Houston Asset Pool as of the Distribution Date.
Comcast Estimated Cash Amount
          (p) "" means all Income Taxes, other than Pass-Through Entity Level Income Taxes, relating to or arising out of, or resulting from the ownership or operation of the Comcast Transferred Assets for taxable periods, or portions thereof, ending on or prior to the date immediately preceding the Selection Date, other than Income Taxes suffered by the Comcast Assignee or any of its Affiliates as a partner in the Partnership.
Comcast Excluded Taxes
          (q) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(d) of this Agreement.
Comcast Excluded Telecom License Liabilities
          (r) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
Comcast Fixed Assets
          (s) "" means each Comcast Transferred Subsidiary, Comcast Distribution LLC, the Comcast Assignee and each other Comcast Partner, any of their respective Affiliates (after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement), and their respective successors and assigns.
Comcast Group
 
          (t) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2 of this Agreement.
Comcast Indemnifying Party
          (u) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1 of this Agreement.
Comcast Indemnitee
          (v) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
Comcast Properties
          (w) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(d) of this Agreement.
Comcast Telecom License Liabilities
          (x) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4 of this Agreement.
Comcast Transferred Assets
          (y) "" means each of TCP Security Company LLC, a Texas limited liability company, TCP-Charter Cable Advertising, LP, a Delaware limited partnership, TCP/Conroe-Huntsville Cable Advertising, LP, a Delaware limited partnership, TKCCP/Cebridge Texas Cable Advertising, LP, a Delaware limited partnership, and TWEAN-TCP Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Comcast Transferred Subsidiary
          (z) "" means any contract, lease, agreement, covenant, indenture, note, security, instrument, arrangement, commitment or any other binding understanding, whether written or oral.
Contract
          (aa) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1 of this Agreement.
Damages
          (bb) " means the Comcast Delayed Assets and the TWI Delayed Assets.
Delayed Assets"
          (cc) "" means April 2, 2007 or such other date as shall be mutually agreed by the Partners.
Dissolution Date
          (dd) "" means (i) any agreement or instrument contemplated by Section 8.4(l) of the Partnership Agreement that the Partnership enters into in connection with the Dissolution Procedure, including this Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Tax Cooperation Letter, any Bill of Sale and any Real Property Instrument and (ii) any other agreement or instrument that is entered into in connection with the Dissolution Procedure and is approved by both the Comcast Partners and the TWI Partners.
Dissolution Document
          (ee) "" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
DRULPA
          (ff) "" means the Employee Matters Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among the Partnership, TWI
Employee Matters Agreement
 
Assignee, Comcast Assignee, each of the Partners, each of the TWI Transferred Subsidiaries, each of the Comcast Transferred Subsidiaries and Comcast Distribution LLC.
          (gg) "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 405 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 as in effect on the date hereof and, in any event, shall also include (i) any capital stock of a corporation, any partnership interest, any limited liability company interest and any other equity interest, as applicable; (ii) any security or indebtedness having the attendant right to vote for directors or similar representatives; (iii) any security or right convertible into, exchangeable for, or evidencing the right to subscribe for any such stock, equity interest, security or indebtedness referred to in clause (i) or (ii); (iv) any stock appreciation right, contingent value right or similar security or right that is derivative of any such stock, equity interest, security or indebtedness referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii); and (v) any contract to grant, issue, award, convey or sell any of the foregoing.
Equity Security
          (hh) "" means a Third Party Claim (a) for injunctive or equitable relief against the Indemnitee, (b) in respect of which it is reasonably likely that, based on the financial condition of the Indemnifying Party and the maximum amount of Liability that could reasonably be expected to result from such Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party would not possess the financial resources to satisfy such Liability or (c) in which the interests of the Indemnifying Party and Indemnitee conflict.
Excepted Third Party Claim
          (ii) "" means a written "franchise" within the meaning of Section 602(9) of the Communications Act of 1934.
Franchise
          (jj) "" means any supranational, national, state, municipal or local government, political subdivision or other governmental department, court, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality, or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority, whether domestic or foreign.
Governmental Authority
          (kk) "" means the TWI Group or the Comcast Group as the context requires. Any Person in a Group may be referred to as a "Member."
Group
          (ll) "" shall mean any federal, state or local Tax which is based upon, measured by, or calculated with respect to (i) net income or profits (including any capital gains or minimum tax) or (ii) multiple bases (including corporate franchise, doing business or occupation taxes), if one or more of the bases upon which such Tax may be calculated is described in clause (i) hereof.
Income Taxes
          (mm) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8 of this Agreement.
Indemnification Payment
 
          (nn) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2 of this Agreement.
Indemnifying Party
          (oo) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2 of this Agreement.
Indemnitee
          (pp) "" means information, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible forms, stored in any medium, including studies, reports, records, books, Contracts, instruments, surveys, discoveries, ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, designs, specifications, drawings, blueprints, diagrams, models, prototypes, samples, flow charts, data, computer data, disks, diskettes, tapes, computer programs or other software, marketing plans, customer names, communications by or to attorneys (including attorney-client privileged communications), memos and other materials prepared by attorneys or under their direction (including attorney work product) and other technical, financial, employee or business information or data.
Information
          (qq) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.4(a) of this Agreement.
Insurance Policy
          (rr) "" means those monies received by an insured from an insurance carrier, or paid by an insurance carrier on behalf of an insured, in any such case net of any costs or expenses incurred in the collection thereof.
Insurance Proceeds
          (ss) "" means any foreign or domestic law, statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, treaty, or judgment, enacted, entered or promulgated by a Governmental Authority.
Law
          (tt) "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Partnership
          (uu) "" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Partnership Agreement
          (vv) "" means any Information related to the Partnership, including Information relating to either Asset Pool.
Partnership Information
          (ww) "" means the entire ownership interest of a Partner in the Partnership at any time, including the rights of such Partner to Partnership capital, income, loss, distributions and other benefits to which such Partner may be entitled under the Partnership Agreement, and the obligations of such Partner to comply with the applicable terms and provisions of the Partnership Agreement.
Partnership Interest
          (xx) "" means an entity which, for federal Income Tax purposes, is a partnership, disregarded entity or a grantor trust for federal Income Tax purposes.
Pass-Through Entity
 
          (yy) "" shall mean Income Taxes of a Pass-Through Entity or any entity owned directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by such Pass-Through Entity to the extent that such Income Taxes are imposed by Law on such entity and not passed through to its owners by reason of such entity being a Pass-Through Entity.
Pass-Through Entity Level Income Taxes
          (zz) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.9 of this Agreement.
Real Property Instrument
          (aaa) "" means a "cable television system" within the meaning of Section 602(7) of the Communications Act of 1934.
System
          (bbb) "" means the Tax Cooperation Letter Agreement, dated February 15, 2006, by and among the TWI Partners and the Comcast Partners.
Tax Cooperation Letter
          (ccc) "" means all levies and assessments of any kind or nature imposed by any Governmental Authority, including all income, sales, use, ad valorem, value added, franchise, severance, net or gross proceeds, withholding, payroll, employment, F.I.C.A., excise or property taxes, levies and any payment required to be made to any state abandoned property administrator or other public official pursuant to an abandoned property, escheat or similar law, together with any interest thereon and any penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts applicable thereto.
Taxes
          (ddd) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4 of this Agreement.
Telecom Licenses
          (eee) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(a) of this Agreement.
Third Party Claim
          (fff) "" means the Comcast Transferred Assets and the TWI Transferred Assets.
Transferred Assets
          (ggg) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.3 of this Agreement.
Time Warner Cable Marks
          (hhh) "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
TWI Assignee
          (iii) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5 of this Agreement.
TWI Assumed Liabilities
          (jjj) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b)(i) of this Agreement.
TWI Contracts
          (kkk) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.7 of this Agreement.
TWI Delayed Asset
 
          (lll) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a) of this Agreement.
TWI Distributed Systems
          (mmm) "" means all Income Taxes, other than Pass-Through Entity Level Income Taxes, relating to or arising out of, or resulting from the ownership or operation of the TWI Transferred Assets for taxable periods, or portions thereof, ending on or prior to the date immediately preceding the Selection Date, other than Income Taxes suffered by the TWI Assignee or any of its Affiliates as a partner in the Partnership.
TWI Excluded Taxes
          (nnn) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
TWI Fixed Assets
          (ooo) "" means each TWI Transferred Subsidiary, the TWI Assignee and TWE-A/N GP, any of their respective Affiliates (after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement), and their respective successors and assigns.
TWI Group
          (ppp) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1 of this Agreement.
TWI Indemnifying Party
          (qqq) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2 of this Agreement.
TWI Indemnitee
          (rrr) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(b)(ii) of this Agreement.
TWI Properties
          (sss) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4 of this Agreement.
TWI Transferred Assets
          (ttt) "" means each of KCCP Trust, a Delaware statutory trust, Time Warner Cable Information Services (Kansas), LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Time Warner Cable Information Services (Missouri), LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Time Warner Information Services (Texas), L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, Time Warner Cable/Comcast Kansas City Advertising, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and TCP/Comcast Las Cruces Cable Advertising, LP, a Delaware limited partnership.
TWI Transferred Subsidiary
     Section 1.2 The definitions in Article I shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed to be references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement unless the context shall otherwise require. All Exhibits and Schedules attached hereto shall be deemed incorporated herein as if set forth in full herein and, unless otherwise defined therein, all terms used in any Exhibit or Schedule shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in this Agreement. The words
Usage.
 
"include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, and except for purposes of Section 10.2, any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein.
     Section 2.1 . Subject to Section 2.6, effective as of the date hereof, the Partnership will assign, transfer, convey and deliver to the TWI Assignee, and the TWI Assignee will accept from the Partnership all of the Partnership's and its Subsidiaries' respective right, title and interest in and to the TWI Transferred Assets, as separately evidenced by a Bill of Sale and Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as and the Real Property Instruments referred to in Section 2.9.
Transfer of Assets
Exhibit A
     Section 2.2 . Effective as of the date hereof, the TWI Assignee will absolutely and irrevocably assume and agree to be liable and responsible to pay when due, perform and discharge, all the TWI Assumed Liabilities (except to the extent such TWI Assumed Liabilities are Liabilities of a TWI Transferred Subsidiary, in which case such TWI Transferred Subsidiary shall retain such TWI Assumed Liabilities), in accordance with their respective terms, as separately evidenced by a Bill of Sale and Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as . The TWI Assignee shall be responsible for all TWI Assumed Liabilities (except to the extent such TWI Assumed Liabilities are Liabilities of a TWI Transferred Subsidiary, in which case such TWI Transferred Subsidiary shall be responsible for such TWI Assumed Liabilities), regardless of when or where such TWI Assumed Liabilities arose or arise, or whether the facts on which they are based occurred prior to, on or subsequent to the date hereof, regardless of where or against whom such Liabilities are asserted or determined or whether asserted or determined prior to the date hereof, and regardless of whether arising from or alleged to arise from negligence, recklessness, violation of Law, fraud or misrepresentation or any other cause by a Member of any Group or any of their respective Subsidiaries, directors, officers, employees or agents or Affiliates. The TWI Assignee hereby agrees (and shall cause each TWI Transferred Subsidiary) to be bound by all obligations of the TWI Partners in accordance with Section 8.4(h)(v) of the Partnership Agreement, and the TWI Partners agree to be jointly and severally liable with the TWI Assignee and each TWI Transferred Subsidiary for their obligations under the Dissolution Documents. The TWI Assumed Liabilities shall not include the TWI Excluded Taxes.
Assumption of Liabilities
Exhibit A
 
     Section 2.3 . The transactions contemplated by Sections 2.1 and 2.2 above shall be effected as of 12:00:45 a.m. CST on the date hereof.
Time of Transfers
     Section 2.4 . For purposes of this Agreement, "" means the Telecom Licenses and all of the Assets included in the Kansas & SW Asset Pool and shall include, to the extent part of Kansas & SW Asset Pool:
TWI Transferred Assets
TWI Transferred Assets
          (a) the Systems and Franchises set forth on (the "");
Exhibit B
TWI Distributed Systems
          (b) all Assets of the Partnership and its Subsidiaries primarily related to the TWI Distributed Systems, including:
          (i) all rights under the Contracts listed on (the "");
Schedule 2.4(b)(i)
TWI Contracts
          (ii) the real property described on (the "");
Schedule 2.4(b)(ii)
TWI Properties
          (iii) the fixed Assets described on (the ""); and
Schedule 2.4(b)(iii)
TWI Fixed Assets
          (c) the Shared Assets described on .
Schedule 2.4(c)
     Section 2.5 . For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all Liabilities related to the Telecom Licenses (other than the Comcast Telecom License Liabilities) and all Liabilities included in the Kansas & SW Asset Pool and shall include, to the extent otherwise part of the Kansas & SW Asset Pool:
TWI Assumed Liabilities
TWI Assumed Liabilities
          (a) all Liabilities (other than Debt) of the Partnership and any of its Subsidiaries that are primarily related to the TWI Distributed Systems, including:
          (i) all obligations under the TWI Contracts;
          (ii) all Liabilities primarily related to the TWI Properties;
          (iii) all Liabilities primarily related to the TWI Fixed Assets;
          (b) all Debt described on ; and
Schedule 2.5(b)
          (c) 50% of Other Liabilities, including those described on .
Schedule 2.5(c)
 
     Section 2.6 . Notwithstanding Sections 2.1 and 2.2, the Partners agree that any TWI Transferred Assets to be assigned, transferred, conveyed and delivered hereunder and any TWI Assumed Liabilities to be assumed hereunder, shall, if such Asset is owned directly by a TWI Transferred Subsidiary (including any Telecom Licenses) or such Liability is the direct obligation of a TWI Transferred Subsidiary, be transferred or assumed, as applicable, by transferring, directly or indirectly, free and clear of any liens or encumbrances (other than those that are Liabilities of the Kansas & SW Pool), all of the Equity Securities held directly or indirectly by the Partnership in the TWI Transferred Subsidiary that owns such TWI Transferred Assets or is directly subject to such TWI Assumed Liabilities, as applicable, , that, if such TWI Transferred Subsidiary directly owns any Assets that are not TWI Transferred Assets or is subject to any Liabilities other than TWI Assumed Liabilities, such Assets and Liabilities shall be assigned to or assumed by the Partnership prior to the transfer of such Equity Securities. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, Assets will be assigned, transferred, conveyed and delivered directly and Liabilities will be assumed directly.
Transfer of Equity Interests
provided
     Section 2.7 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, any TWI Transferred Asset (other than any TWI Transferred Asset held by any TWI Transferred Subsidiary), the assignment, transfer, conveyance or delivery of which without the consent, authorization, approval or waiver of a third party would constitute a breach or other contravention of Law or such TWI Transferred Asset or in any way adversely affect the rights of the Partnership, any of its applicable Subsidiaries, the Partners or the TWI Assignee thereunder (a ""), shall not be assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered until the earlier of (i) such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained and (ii) immediately prior to the dissolution of the Partnership on the Dissolution Date, at which time such TWI Delayed Asset shall, pursuant to the Bill of Sale and Assignment and Assumption Agreement, be automatically assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered without further action on the part of the Partnership, its applicable Subsidiaries, the Partners or the TWI Assignee. Until the earlier of (i) such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained and (ii) immediately prior to the dissolution of the Partnership on the Dissolution Date, (A) the Partnership (and its applicable Subsidiaries), the Partners and the TWI Assignee shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the relevant consent, authorization, approval or waiver, (B) the Partnership (and its applicable Subsidiaries) shall endeavor to provide the TWI Assignee with the benefits under each TWI Delayed Asset as if such TWI Delayed Asset had been assigned to the TWI Assignee, including preserving the benefits of and enforcing for the benefit of the TWI Assignee, at the TWI Assignee's expense, any and all rights of the Partnership or any of its applicable Subsidiaries under such TWI Delayed Asset, and (C) to the extent permissible with respect to such TWI Delayed Asset, the TWI Assignee shall (1) be responsible for the obligations of the Partnership or its applicable Subsidiaries with respect to such TWI Delayed Asset and (2) act as the agent of the Partnership or its applicable Subsidiaries in preserving the benefits of and enforcing any and all rights of the Partnership or its applicable Subsidiaries in such TWI Delayed Asset. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement or the Partnership Agreement to
TWI Delayed Assets
TWI Delayed Asset
 
the contrary, any TWI Delayed Asset shall be deemed a TWI Transferred Asset for purposes of determining whether any Liability is a TWI Assumed Liability. Following the assignment, transfer, conveyance and delivery of any TWI Delayed Asset, the applicable TWI Delayed Asset shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Dissolution Documents as a TWI Transferred Asset.
     Section 2.8 . The Partnership, the applicable Subsidiaries and the TWI Partners, at the reasonable written request of the Comcast Partners, shall use their reasonable commercial efforts to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment required to novate and assign all obligations under agreements, leases, licenses and other obligations or Liabilities of any nature whatsoever that constitute TWI Assumed Liabilities, or to obtain in writing the unconditional release of all parties to such arrangements other than the TWI Assignee (or the applicable TWI Transferred Subsidiary), so that, in any such case, the TWI Assignee (or the applicable TWI Transferred Subsidiary) will be solely responsible for such Liabilities; , that none of the Members of any Group shall be obligated to pay any additional consideration or undertake any additional obligations to any third party from whom any such release, consent, approval, substitution or amendment is requested or to surrender, release or modify any material rights or remedies in order to obtain any such release, consent, approval, substitution or amendment.
Novation of TWI Assumed Liabilities
provided
however
     Section 2.9 To the extent necessary, in furtherance of the assignment, transfer and conveyance of the TWI Transferred Assets and the assumption of the related TWI Assumed Liabilities, on the date hereof (to the extent practicable) or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, each of the Partnership, its Subsidiaries and the TWI Assignee, will execute and deliver such deeds, lease assignments and assumptions, leases, subleases and sub-subleases, transfer tax returns, affidavits and similar instruments as may be necessary to effect the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (collectively, the ""), that the Real Property Instruments need not be delivered to the extent that the real property included in the TWI Transferred Assets is already owned by or held in the name of any TWI Transferred Subsidiary. The applicable Real Property Instruments will be on mutually acceptable terms.
Documents Relating to Transfer of Real Property Interests.
Real Property Instruments
provided
     Section 2.10 . In the event that at any time or from time to time, the Partnership or any Comcast Group Member shall receive or otherwise possess any Asset or be subject to any Liability that is allocated to the TWI Assignee (or any TWI Transferred Subsidiary, as applicable) pursuant to this Agreement or any other Dissolution Document (including receipt or possession of such Assets or assumption of such Liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with Section 8.4(e) of the Partnership Agreement), such Person shall promptly transfer, or cause to be transferred, such Asset or Liability to the TWI Assignee (or the applicable TWI Transferred Subsidiary). Prior to any such transfer, the Person receiving or possessing such Asset or being subject to such Liability shall hold such Asset or Liability in trust for the TWI Assignee (or the applicable TWI Transferred Subsidiary).
Misallocated Assets or Liabilities
 
     Section 3.1 . Subject to Section 3.2, Section 3.6 and Section 4.1, effective as of the date hereof, the Partnership will assign, transfer, convey and deliver to Comcast Distribution LLC, and Comcast Distribution LLC will accept from the Partnership, all of the Partnership's and its Subsidiaries' respective right, title and interest in and to the Comcast Transferred Assets, as separately evidenced by a Bill of Sale and Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as and the Real Property Instruments referred to in Section 3.11.
Transfer of Assets
Exhibit C
     Section 3.2 . On December 29, 2006, the Partnership assigned, transferred, conveyed and delivered the Comcast Estimated Cash Amount to an account of Comcast Distribution LLC.
Transfer of Comcast Estimated Cash
     Section 3.3 . Effective as of the date hereof, Comcast Distribution LLC will absolutely and irrevocably assume and agree to be liable and responsible to pay when due, perform and discharge, all the Comcast Assumed Liabilities (except to the extent such Comcast Assumed Liabilities are Liabilities of a Comcast Transferred Subsidiary, in which case such Comcast Transferred Subsidiary shall retain such Comcast Assumed Liabilities), in accordance with their respective terms, as separately evidenced by a Bill of Sale and Assignment and Assumption Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as . Comcast Distribution LLC shall be responsible for all Comcast Assumed Liabilities (except to the extent such Comcast Assumed Liabilities are Liabilities of a Comcast Transferred Subsidiary, in which case such Comcast Transferred Subsidiary shall be responsible for such Comcast Assumed Liabilities), regardless of when or where such Comcast Assumed Liabilities arose or arise, or whether the facts on which they are based occurred prior to, on or subsequent to the date hereof, regardless of where or against whom such Liabilities are asserted or determined or whether asserted or determined prior to the date hereof, and regardless of whether arising from or alleged to arise from negligence, recklessness, violation of Law, fraud or misrepresentation or any other cause by a Member of any Group or any of their respective Subsidiaries, directors, officers, employees or agents or Affiliates. The Comcast Assignee hereby agrees (and shall cause each Comcast Transferred Subsidiary) to be bound by all obligations of the Comcast Partners in accordance with Section 8.4(h)(v) of the Partnership Agreement, and the Comcast Partners agree to be jointly and severally liable with the Comcast Assignee for its obligations under the Dissolution Documents. The Comcast Assumed Liabilities shall not include the Comcast Excluded Taxes.
Assumption of Liabilities
Exhibit C
     Section 3.4 . For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all of the Assets included in the Houston Asset Pool and shall include, to the extent part of Houston Asset Pool:
Comcast Transferred Assets
Comcast Transferred Assets
          (a) the Systems and Franchises set forth on (the "");
Exhibit D
Comcast Distributed Systems
 
          (b) all Assets of the Partnership and its Subsidiaries primarily related to the Comcast Distributed Systems, including:
          (i) all rights under the Contracts listed on (the "");
Schedule 3.4(b)(i)
Comcast Contracts
          (ii) the real property described on (the "");
Schedule 3.4(b)(ii)
Comcast Properties
          (iii) the fixed Assets described on (the ""); and
Schedule 3.4(b)(iii)
Comcast Fixed Assets
          (c) the Shared Assets described on , it being understood that the parties have agreed that the cash and cash equivalent portion thereof shall be paid in accordance with Section 4.1;
Schedule 3.4(c)
that notwithstanding anything herein or in the Partnership Agreement to the contrary, the Comcast Transferred Assets shall not include any consent, authorization or approval issued by the FCC or any state Governmental Authority authorizing or permitting the provision of telephony services ("") and no such Telecom Licenses will be treated as part of the Houston Asset Pool or the Houston Business.
provided
Telecom Licenses
     Section 3.5 . For purposes of this Agreement, "" means all Liabilities included in the Houston Asset Pool and shall include, to the extent otherwise part of the Houston Asset Pool:
Comcast Assumed Liabilities
Comcast Assumed Liabilities
          (a) all Liabilities (other than Debt) of the Partnership and any of its Subsidiaries that are primarily related to the Comcast Distributed Systems, including:
          (i) all obligations under the Comcast Contracts;
          (ii) all Liabilities primarily related to the Comcast Properties;
          (iii) all Liabilities primarily related to the Comcast Fixed Assets;
          (b) all Debt described on ; and
Schedule 3.5(b)
          (c) 50% of Other Liabilities, including those described on ;
Schedule 3.5(c)
          (d) all Liabilities under any Telecom License arising, or relating to any period (or any portion thereof) ending, prior to the Distribution Date but only to the extent related to the Houston Asset Pool (the ""); that notwithstanding anything herein or in the Partnership
Comcast Telecom License Liabilities
provided
 
Agreement to the contrary, the Comcast Assumed Liabilities shall not include any Liabilities under any Telecom License to the extent (i) arising, or relating to any period (or any portion thereof) ending, on or after the Distribution Date (except in respect of the portion of any such period that is prior to the Distribution Date) or (ii) not related to the Houston Asset Pool (the ""), and no such Comcast Excluded Telecom License Liability will be treated as a part of the Houston Asset Pool.
Comcast Excluded Telecom License Liabilities
     Section 3.6 . Notwithstanding Section 3.1 and Section 3.3, the Partners agree that any Comcast Transferred Assets to be assigned, transferred, conveyed and delivered hereunder and any Comcast Assumed Liabilities to be assumed hereunder, shall, if such Asset is owned directly by a Comcast Transferred Subsidiary or such Liability is the direct obligation of a Comcast Transferred Subsidiary, be transferred or assumed, as applicable, by transferring, directly or indirectly, free and clear of any liens or encumbrances (other than those that are Liabilities of the Houston Asset Pool), all of the Equity Securities held directly or indirectly by the Partnership in the Comcast Transferred Subsidiary that directly owns such Comcast Transferred Assets or is directly subject to such Comcast Assumed Liabilities, as applicable, , that, if such Comcast Transferred Subsidiary owns any Assets that are not Comcast Transferred Assets or is subject to any Liabilities other than Comcast Assumed Liabilities, such Assets and Liabilities shall be assigned to or assumed by the Partnership prior to the transfer of such Equity Securities. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, Assets will be assigned, transferred, conveyed and delivered directly and Liabilities will be assumed directly.
Transfer of Equity Interests
provided
     Section 3.7 . Immediately after the transactions contemplated by Sections 3.1 and 3.3 are effected, the Partnership will transfer to the Comcast Assignee, free and clear of any liens or encumbrances (other than those that are Liabilities of the Houston Asset Pool), all of the Equity Securities in Comcast Distribution LLC.
Transfer of LLC Interest
     Section 3.8 . The transactions contemplated by (i) Sections 3.1 and 3.3 above shall be effected as of 12:00:30 a.m. CST on the date hereof and (ii) Section 3.7 above shall be effected as of 12:00:45 a.m. CST on the date hereof.
Time of Transfers
     Section 3.9 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, any Comcast Transferred Asset (other than any Comcast Transferred Asset held by any Comcast Transferred Subsidiary), the assignment, transfer, conveyance or delivery of which to Comcast Distribution LLC (or, following such assignment, transfer, conveyance or delivery, the transfer of the Equity Securities of Comcast Distribution LLC to Comcast Assignee) without the consent, authorization, approval or waiver of a third party would constitute a breach or other contravention of Law or such Comcast Transferred Asset or in any way adversely affect the rights of the Partnership, any of its applicable Subsidiaries, Comcast Distribution LLC, the Partners or the Comcast Assignee thereunder (a ""), shall not be assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered to Comcast Distribution LLC until the earlier of (i)
Comcast Delayed Assets
Comcast Delayed Asset
 
such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained and (ii) immediately prior to the dissolution of the Partnership on the Dissolution Date, at which time such Comcast Delayed Asset shall, pursuant to the Bill of Sale and Assignment and Assumption Agreement, be automatically assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered without further action on the part of the Partnership, its applicable Subsidiaries, Comcast Distribution LLC, the Partners or the Comcast Assignee. Until the earlier of (i) such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained and (ii) immediately prior to the dissolution of the Partnership on the Dissolution Date, (A) the Partnership (and its applicable Subsidiaries), Comcast Distribution LLC, the Partners and the Comcast Assignee shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the relevant consent, authorization, approval or waiver, (B) the Partnership (and its applicable Subsidiaries) shall endeavor to provide Comcast Distribution LLC with the benefits under each Comcast Delayed Asset as if such Comcast Delayed Asset had been assigned to Comcast Distribution LLC, including preserving the benefits of and enforcing for the benefit of Comcast Distribution LLC, at Comcast Distribution LLC's expense, any and all rights of the Partnership or any of its applicable Subsidiaries under such Comcast Delayed Asset, and (C) to the extent permissible with respect to such Comcast Delayed Asset, Comcast Distribution LLC shall (1) be responsible for the obligations of the Partnership or its applicable Subsidiaries with respect to such Comcast Delayed Asset and (2) act as the agent of the Partnership or its applicable Subsidiaries in preserving the benefits of and enforcing any and all rights of the Partnership or its applicable Subsidiaries in such Comcast Delayed Asset. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement or the Partnership Agreement to the contrary, any Comcast Delayed Asset shall be deemed a Comcast Transferred Asset for purposes of determining whether any Liability is a Comcast Assumed Liability. Following the assignment, transfer, conveyance and delivery of any Comcast Delayed Asset, the applicable Comcast Delayed Asset shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Dissolution Documents as a Comcast Transferred Asset.
     Section 3.10 . The Partnership, the applicable Subsidiaries, Comcast Distribution LLC and the Comcast Partners, at the reasonable written request of the TWI Partners, shall use their reasonable commercial efforts to obtain, or to cause to be obtained, any release, consent, substitution, approval or amendment required to novate and assign all obligations under agreements, leases, licenses and other obligations or Liabilities of any nature whatsoever that constitute Comcast Assumed Liabilities, or to obtain in writing the unconditional release of all parties to such arrangements other than Comcast Distribution LLC (or the applicable Comcast Transferred Subsidiary), so that, in any such case, Comcast Distribution LLC (or the applicable Comcast Transferred Subsidiary) will be solely responsible for such Liabilities; , that none of the Members of any Group shall be obligated to pay any additional consideration or undertake any additional obligations to any third party from whom any such release, consent, approval, substitution or amendment is requested or to surrender, release or modify any material rights or remedies in order to obtain any such release, consent, approval, substitution or amendment.
Novation of Comcast Assumed Liabilities
provided
however
 
     Section 3.11 To the extent necessary, in furtherance of the assignment, transfer and conveyance of the Comcast Transferred Assets and the assumption of the related Comcast Assumed Liabilities, on the date hereof (to the extent practicable) or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, each of the Partnership, its Subsidiaries and Comcast Distribution LLC, will execute and deliver Real Property Instruments; that the Real Property Instruments need not be delivered to the extent that the real property included in the Comcast Transferred Assets is already owned by or held in the name of any Comcast Transferred Subsidiary. The applicable Real Property Instruments will be on mutually acceptable terms.
Documents Relating to Transfer of Real Property Interests.
provided
     Section 3.12 .
Misallocated Assets or Liabilities
          (a) In the event that at any time or from time to time, the Partnership or any TWI Group Member shall receive or otherwise possess any Asset or be subject to any Liability that is allocated to Comcast Distribution LLC (or any Comcast Transferred Subsidiary, as applicable) pursuant to this Agreement or any other Dissolution Document (including receipt or possession of such Assets or assumption of such Liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with Section 8.4(e) of the Partnership Agreement), such Person shall promptly transfer, or cause to be transferred, such Asset or Liability to Comcast Distribution LLC (or the applicable Comcast Transferred Subsidiary). Prior to any such transfer, the Person receiving or possessing such Asset or being subject to such Liability shall hold such Asset or Liability in trust for Comcast Distribution LLC (or the applicable Comcast Transferred Subsidiary). For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that those Contracts set forth on (i) are not Comcast Transferred Assets and the Liabilities thereunder are not Comcast Assumed Liabilities and (ii) shall not be subject to this Section 3.12(a), shall remain a Contract of the applicable Affiliate of the TWI Group, shall not be transferred to or assumed by Comcast Distribution LLC (or any Comcast Transferred Subsidiary) and shall not be held in trust for Comcast Distribution LLC (or any Comcast Transferred Subsidiary), unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the parties hereto.
Schedule 3.12
          (b) In the event that as of the date hereof any TWI Group Member other than the Partnership or any of its Subsidiaries is a party to any Contract used primarily in the Houston Business and used exclusively by one or more cable television systems serving areas exclusively located in the Houston DMA, such Person shall promptly transfer, or cause to be transferred, such Contract to Comcast Distribution LLC (or the applicable Comcast Transferred Subsidiary), subject to the receipt of any necessary consent. Prior to any such transfer, such TWI Group Member shall hold such Contract in trust for Comcast Distribution LLC (or the applicable Comcast Transferred Subsidiary). The parties agree that any such Contract which, after giving effect to the transfer under this Section 3.12(b), is between Comcast Distribution LLC (or the applicable Comcast Transferred Subsidiary), on the one hand, and a member of the TWI Group, on the other hand, shall terminate without penalty no later than 120 days after the Distribution Date. For the avoidance of doubt, those Contracts set forth on shall not be subject to this Section 3.12(b), shall remain a Contract of the applicable
Schedule 3.12
 
Affiliate of the TWI Group, shall not be transferred to or assumed by Comcast Distribution LLC (or any Comcast Transferred Subsidiary) and shall not be held in trust for Comcast Distribution LLC (or any Comcast Transferred Subsidiary), unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the parties hereto.
     Section 4.1 .
Cash of Houston Asset Pool
          (a) Pursuant to Section 3.2, an amount of cash equal to the Comcast Estimated Cash Amount was transferred to Comcast Distribution LLC on December 29, 2006, and pursuant to Section 3.7, all of the interests in Comcast Distribution LLC will be transferred to the Comcast Assignee. The Comcast Estimated Cash Amount is TWC's good faith estimate of the amount of cash in the Houston Asset Pool as of the Distribution Date taking into account, among other things, the amount of cash of the Houston Asset Pool (including its share of cash constituting Shared Assets) as of the Allocation Date and the net cash generated by the Houston Asset Pool since that date taking into account the cash revenues of the Houston Asset Pool and the cash expenditures of the Houston Asset Pool, including those necessary to pay off intercompany payables of the Houston Asset Pool. The parties acknowledge and agree that the amount of cash of the Houston Asset Pool as of the Distribution Date after settlement of the net intercompany balance of the Houston Asset Pool as of the Distribution Date (the "") cannot be finally determined as of the date hereof (including as a result of the fact that the net intercompany balance of the Houston Asset Pool as of the Distribution Date has not been finally determined as of the date hereof) and the parties agree to cooperate in good faith to determine such amount. From time to time as the facts establish that the amount transferred to the Comcast Group (taking into account transfers under Section 3.2 and this sentence) in respect of the Comcast Cash Amount is not accurate, the TWI Partners will make a payment to the Comcast Partners or the Comcast Partners will make a payment to the TWI Partners, as applicable, in an amount necessary to adjust for such inaccuracy. Each payment under the preceding sentence will include interest at the Base Interest Rate from and including the Distribution Date to but excluding the date of payment.
Comcast Cash Amount
          (b) For the avoidance of doubt, except as set forth in Section 4.1(a) regarding the timing of the payment of the intercompany account balance of the Houston Asset Pool, the provisions of Section 8.4(e) of the Partnership Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
          (c) The parties agree, for all Income Tax purposes, to treat any amounts paid pursuant to Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement, to the extent designated as interest, in the same manner as provided for interest payments in Section 8.4(t) of the Partnership Agreement. Amounts paid pursuant to Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement and not described in the immediately preceding sentence shall be treated as repayment of principal amounts of the obligations described in Section 8.4(e) of the Partnership Agreement, and shall be treated as made between the same parties as are the
 
corresponding payments of interest attributable to periods beginning on or after the Selection Date.
     Section 5.1 .
Redemption
          (a) Effective as of the date hereof, the Partnership hereby redeems the entire Interest held by each Partner, except to the extent relating to any TWI Delayed Asset or Comcast Delayed Asset, as applicable, and each such Partner hereby transfers and delivers such portion of its Interest to the Partnership. As Delayed Assets are transferred pursuant to Section 2.7 or 3.9 after the date hereof, the applicable portion of the Interests held by the applicable Related Partners will, concurrent with such transfers, automatically be redeemed, transferred and delivered without further action on the part of the Partnership, Comcast Assignee, Comcast Distribution LLC or TWI Assignee consistent with the preceding sentence and this Agreement.
          (b) After giving effect to each redemption under Section 5.1(a), each set of Related Partners whose Interests were not redeemed in full pursuant to Section 5.1(a) shall remain Partners of the Partnership and all Interests held by them shall be economic interests solely in the Asset Pool or remaining Delayed Assets intended to be distributed to such set of Related Partners in accordance with Section 8.4 of the Partnership Agreement and Section 2.7 or Section 3.9 (as applicable) which interest shall be allocated among the members of such set of Related Partners in proportion to the allocation of Interests held by such Related Partners immediately prior to giving effect to such redemption. Notwithstanding that a set of Related Partners' entire Interest may have been redeemed in full pursuant to Section 5.1(a), each of the Comcast Partners and TWI Partners is hereby granted a non-economic interest in the Partnership that is allocated among the Comcast Partners and the TWI Partners in proportion to the allocation of Interests held by such Related Partners immediately prior to giving effect to the redemptions contemplated by this Section 5.1, and shall remain a partner until the Partnership is dissolved in accordance with Article VII. For the avoidance of doubt, none of the TWI Partners shall have any economic interest or rights in respect of the Houston Asset Pool and none of the Comcast Partners shall have any economic interest or rights in respect of the Kansas & SW Asset PoolThe Partnership Agreement will be deemed to be amended to reflect the arrangements described in this Article V.
.
     Section 6.1 . The TWI Assignee and the TWI Partners (collectively, the "") shall jointly and severally indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Comcast Partners, Comcast Distribution LLC and the Comcast Transferred Subsidiaries, their respective successors, assigns and Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors, agents and employees (collectively, the
TWI Indemnities
TWI Indemnifying Parties
 
"") from and against all claims, losses, Liabilities, demands, obligations, actions, penalties, expenses and costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, including any such fees and expenses incurred in enforcing this indemnity) (collectively, "") which may be made or brought against a Comcast Indemnitee or which a Comcast Indemnitee may suffer or incur as a result of, based upon or arising out of, (i) any of the TWI Transferred Assets, TWI Delayed Assets, TWI Assumed Liabilities or TWI Delayed Liabilities; (ii) operation of the Kansas & SW Business after the date hereof or (iii) any breach of the covenants or obligations made or to be performed by a TWI Indemnifying Party under the Dissolution Documents; , that, a Comcast Indemnitee shall not be entitled to indemnification under this Section 6.1 to the extent the relevant Damages arose from any Comcast Indemnitee's gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of the Partnership Agreement, the Management Agreement or any Dissolution Document.
Comcast Indemnitees
Damages
provided
     Section 6.2 . The Comcast Assignee, Comcast Distribution LLC and the Comcast Partners (collectively, the "", and together with the TWI Indemnifying Parties, the "") shall jointly and severally indemnify, defend and hold harmless the TWI Partners and the TWI Transferred Subsidiaries, their respective successors, assigns and Affiliates, and their respective officers, directors, agents and employees (collectively, the "", and together with the Comcast Indemnitees, the "") from and against all Damages which may be made or brought against a TWI Indemnitee or which a TWI Indemnitee may suffer or incur as a result of, based upon or arising out of, (i) any of the Comcast Transferred Assets, Comcast Delayed Assets, Comcast Assumed Liabilities or Comcast Delayed Liabilities; (ii) operation of the Houston Business after the date hereof or (iii) any breach of the covenants or obligations made or to be performed by a Comcast Indemnifying Party under the Dissolution Documents; , that, a TWI Indemnitee shall not be entitled to indemnification under this Section 6.2 to the extent the relevant Damages arose from any TWI Indemnitee's gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of the Partnership Agreement, the Management Agreement or any Dissolution Document.
Comcast Indemnities
Comcast Indemnifying Parties
Indemnifying Parties
TWI Indemnitees
Indemnitees
provided
     Section 6.3 .
Indemnification Obligations Net of Insurance Proceeds and Other Amounts
          (a) The parties intend that any indemnification or reimbursement obligation pursuant to this Agreement or any other Dissolution Document will be net of Insurance Proceeds that actually reduce the amount of any Liability. Accordingly, the amount which any Indemnifying Party is required to pay to any Indemnitee will be reduced by any Insurance Proceeds theretofore actually recovered by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in reduction of the related Liability. If an Indemnitee receives an Indemnification Payment from an Indemnifying Party in respect of any Liability and subsequently receives Insurance Proceeds, then the Indemnitee will pay to the Indemnifying Party an amount equal to the excess of the Indemnification Payment received over the amount of the Indemnification Payment that would have been due if the
 
Insurance Proceeds had been received, realized or recovered before the Indemnification Payment was made.
          (b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the parties intend that any covered claims under workers compensation, auto liability and general liability insurance policies continue to be administered in the ordinary course of business and if any Indemnitee that is a beneficiary of such a policy submits claims to the carrier and is then obligated to reimburse the carrier for any amounts (including deductibles) advanced by the carrier to employees or third parties in respect of such claim or for any expenses or costs of the carrier in connection with such claim, such amounts actually reimbursed to such carrier by such Indemnitee shall be subject to indemnification under Section 6.1 or 6.2, as applicable (to the extent such Damage claim relates to the items subject to indemnification thereunder), without regard to the procedures set forth in Section 6.4; that (in the case of a TWI Indemnitee) simultaneous with or promptly following submission of such claim to the carrier the Indemnitee provides the Indemnifying Party with notice of such claim and the Indemnifying Party has not notified the Indemnitee and the carrier that it is assuming defense of such claim pursuant to Section 6.4 sufficiently in advance of any payment by the carrier or the Indemnitee in respect of such claim so as to have avoided such Damage to the Indemnitee.
provided
          (c) An insurer who would otherwise be obligated to defend or make payment in response to any claim shall not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto or, solely by virtue of the indemnification provisions hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto, it being expressly understood and agreed that no insurer or any other third party shall be entitled to a "windfall" (, a benefit it would not be entitled to receive in the absence of the indemnification provisions) by virtue of the indemnification provisions hereof.
i.e.
          (d) With respect to all Insurance Policies, the parties agree to act in good faith and to use their reasonable best efforts to preserve and maximize the insurance benefits due to be provided thereunder and to cooperate with one another as necessary to permit each other to access or obtain the benefits under those policies; , , that nothing in this Section 6.3 shall be construed to prevent any party or any other Person from asserting claims for insurance benefits or accepting insurance benefits provided by the policies. The parties agree to exchange information upon reasonable request of the other party regarding requests that they have made for insurance benefits, notices of claims, occurrences and circumstances that they have submitted to the insurance companies or other entities managing the policies, responses they have received from those insurance companies or entities, including any payments they have received from the insurance companies and any agreements by the insurance companies to make payments, and any other information that the parties may need to determine the status of the Insurance Policies and the continued availability of benefits thereunder.
provided
however
 
     Section 6.4 .
Procedures for Indemnification of Third Party Claims
          (a) If an Indemnitee shall receive notice or a senior officer of the Indemnitee shall learn of the assertion by a Person (including any Governmental Authority) who is not a Member of either Group of any claim or of the commencement by any such Person of any Action (collectively, a "") with respect to which an Indemnifying Party may be obligated to provide indemnification to such Indemnitee pursuant to Section 6.1 or 6.2, or any other Section of this Agreement or any Dissolution Document (except as otherwise provided therein), such Indemnitee shall give such Indemnifying Party prompt written notice thereof. Any such notice shall describe the Third Party Claim in reasonable detail. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of any Indemnitee to give notice as provided in this Section 6.4(a) shall not relieve the related Indemnifying Party of its obligations under this Agreement or any Dissolution Document, except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure to give notice.
Third Party Claim
          (b) An Indemnifying Party may elect to defend (and, except as set out in clause (e) below, unless the Indemnifying Party has specified any reservations or exceptions, to seek to settle or compromise), at such Indemnifying Party's own expense and by such Indemnifying Party's own counsel (provided such counsel is reasonably acceptable to the Indemnitee), any Third Party Claim; that notwithstanding the foregoing, an Indemnitee may elect to defend any Excepted Third Party Claim and the Indemnifying Party shall have the right to elect to defend such Excepted Third Party Claim only if the Indemnitee does not elect to do so. Within 30 days after the receipt of notice from an Indemnitee in accordance with Section 6.4(a) (or sooner, if the nature of such Third Party Claim so requires), the Indemnifying Party shall notify the Indemnitee of its election whether the Indemnifying Party will assume responsibility for defending such Third Party Claim, which election shall specify any reservations or exceptions. After notice from an Indemnifying Party to an Indemnitee of its election to assume the defense of a Third Party Claim, such Indemnitee shall have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in (but not control) the defense, compromise, or settlement thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be the expense of such Indemnitee, except as set forth in the next sentence. In the event that the Indemnifying Party has elected to assume the defense of the Third Party Claim but has specified and continues to assert, any reservations or exceptions in such notice, then, in any such case, the reasonable fees and expenses of one separate counsel (and one separate local counsel) for all Indemnitees shall be borne by the Indemnifying Party.
provided
          (c) If an Indemnifying Party elects not to assume responsibility for defending a Third Party Claim, or fails to notify an Indemnitee of its election as provided in Section 6.4(b), or in the case of an Excepted Third Party Claim, such Indemnitee may defend such Third Party Claim at the reasonable cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnifying Party shall not settle or compromise any such Third Party Claim.
 
          (d) Unless the Indemnifying Party has failed to assume the defense of the Third Party Claim in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, no Indemnitee may settle or compromise any Third Party Claim (including any Excepted Third Party Claim) without the consent of the Indemnifying Party (not to be unreasonably withheld), unless such Indemnitee has waived any rights to indemnification hereunder in respect of such Third Party Claim.
          (e) Without the consent of the Indemnitee (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Indemnifying Party shall not enter into or consent to any settlement or compromise of any Third Party Claim, unless such settlement or compromise involves only the payment of money damages concurrently with such settlement (and such amount is so paid by the Indemnifying Party), does not impose any equitable relief upon the Indemnitee or any of its Affiliates, or any of its or their respective officers or directors, contains an unconditional release of the Indemnitee, each of its Affiliates and each of its and their respective officers or directors in respect of such claim, does not include an admission of responsibility by the Indemnitee, any of its Affiliates or any of its and their respective officers or directors in respect of such claim and shall remain confidential.
     Section 6.5 .
Additional Matters
          (a) Any claim on account of a Liability that does not result from a Third Party Claim shall be asserted by written notice given by the Indemnitee to the related Indemnifying Party. Such Indemnifying Party shall have a period of 30 days after the receipt of such notice within which to respond thereto (or sooner, if the nature of such claim so requires). If such Indemnifying Party does not respond within such period, such Indemnifying Party shall be deemed to have refused to accept responsibility to make payment. If such Indemnifying Party does not respond within such period or rejects such claim in whole or in part, such Indemnitee shall be free to pursue such other remedies as may be available to such party.
          (b) In the event of payment by or on behalf of any Indemnifying Party to any Indemnitee in connection with any Third Party Claim, such Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated to and shall stand in the place of such Indemnitee as to any events or circumstances in respect of which such Indemnitee may have any right, defense or claim relating to such Third Party Claim against any claimant or plaintiff asserting such Third Party Claim or against any other Person but only to the extent of such payment. Such Indemnitee shall cooperate with such Indemnifying Party in a reasonable manner, and at the reasonable cost and expense of such Indemnifying Party, in prosecuting any subrogated right, defense or claim.
          (c) In the event of an Action in which the Indemnifying Party is not a named defendant, if either the Indemnitee (in the case where the Indemnifying Party has not specified any reservations or exceptions) or Indemnifying Party shall so request, the parties shall endeavor to substitute the Indemnifying Party for the named defendant, if at all practicable. If such substitution or addition cannot be achieved for any reason or is not requested, the named defendant shall allow the Indemnifying Party to
 
manage the Action as set forth in Section 6.4 and the Indemnifying Party shall fully indemnify the named defendant against all Liabilities in connection therewith, including costs of defending the Action (including court costs, sanctions imposed by a court, attorneys' fees, experts' fees and all other external expenses), the costs of any judgment or settlement, and the cost of any interest or penalties relating to any judgment or settlement.
     Section 6.6 . The remedies provided in this Article VI shall be cumulative and shall not preclude assertion by any Indemnitee of any other rights or the seeking of any and all other remedies against any Indemnifying Party.
Remedies Cumulative
     Section 6.7 . The rights and obligations of each Partner and their respective Indemnitees under this Article VI shall survive the sale or other transfer by any party of any Assets or the assignment by it of any Liabilities.
Survival of Indemnities
     Section 6.8 . For all Tax purposes (unless required by a change in applicable Tax law or good faith resolution of a contest), the parties hereto agree to treat, and to cause their respective Affiliates to treat any amounts paid to a party pursuant to an indemnification, reimbursement or refund obligation provided for in this Agreement (an "") (i) as having been part of the Asset Pool which has been or is intended to be distributed, as applicable, to the Assignee of the Partner that is entitled to receive such Indemnification Payment, and (ii) as not being part of the Asset Pool which has been or is intended to be distributed, as applicable, to the Assignee of the Partner that is required to make such Indemnification Payment, in each case as of the Allocation Date.
Tax Effects of Indemnification
Indemnification Payment
     Section 7.1 . On the Dissolution Date (i) all right, title and interest of the Partnership in any remaining Delayed Assets will be automatically transferred to, or as directed by, the TWI Assignee or the Comcast Assignee, as applicable, (ii) any remaining interests in the Partnership will be automatically redeemed and (iii) immediately thereafter the Partnership shall be dissolved in accordance with the Partnership Agreement and the DRULPA.
Dissolution
     Section 7.2 . The General Manager shall file or shall cause to be filed with the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a certificate of cancellation in accordance with Section 17-203 of the DRULPA and effective as of the Dissolution Date, which certificate shall set forth: (i) the name of the Partnership, (ii) the date of filing of the Partnership's certificate of limited partnership, (iii) the effective date and time of cancellation of the Partnership's certificate of limited partnership and (iv) such other information as the General Manager shall reasonably determine necessary or appropriate.
Certificate of Cancellation
 
     Section 8.1 .
Agreement for Exchange of Information
          (a) Each Group agrees to provide, or cause to be provided, to the other Group, at any time after the date hereof, as soon as reasonably practicable after written request therefor, any Partnership Information in the possession or under the control of such respective Group that the requesting party reasonably needs (i) to comply with reporting, disclosure, filing or other requirements imposed on the requesting party (including under applicable securities or Tax laws) by a Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the requesting party, (ii) for use in any other judicial, regulatory, administrative, Tax or other proceeding or in order to satisfy audit, accounting, claims, regulatory, litigation, Tax or other similar requirements, (iii) to comply with its obligations under this Agreement or any other Dissolution Document or (iv) for any other proper purpose; , , that in the event that either Group determines that any such provision of Partnership Information could be commercially detrimental, violate any Law or agreement, or waive any attorney-client privilege, the parties shall take all reasonable measures to permit the compliance with such obligations in a manner that avoids any such harm or consequence. The parties intend that any transfer of Information that would otherwise be within the attorney-client privilege shall not operate as a waiver of any potentially applicable privilege.
provided
however
          (b) After the date hereof, each Group shall maintain in effect adequate systems and controls to the extent necessary to enable the Members of the other Group to satisfy their respective reporting, accounting, audit and other obligations.
     Section 8.2 . Any Information owned by one Group that is provided to the other Group pursuant to Section 8.1 shall be deemed to remain the property of the providing Group. Unless specifically set forth herein, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as granting or conferring rights of license or otherwise in any such Information.
Ownership of Information
     Section 8.3 . The Group requesting such Information agrees to reimburse the other Group for the reasonable third party out-of-pocket costs, if any, of creating, gathering and copying such Information, to the extent that such costs are incurred for the benefit of the requesting Group. Except as may be otherwise specifically provided elsewhere in this Agreement or in any other agreement between the parties, such costs shall be computed in accordance with the providing party's standard methodology and procedures.
Compensation for Providing Information
     Section 8.4 . To facilitate the possible exchange of Information pursuant to this Article VIII and other provisions of this Agreement after the date hereof, the parties agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts to retain all Information in their respective possession or control on the date hereof in accordance with their respective record retention policies as in effect on the date hereof. No party will destroy, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to destroy, any Information that any other
Record Retention
 
party may have the right to obtain pursuant to this Agreement prior to the third anniversary of the date hereof without first using its commercially reasonable efforts to notify the other parties of the proposed destruction and giving the other parties the opportunity to take possession of such Information prior to such destruction; , , that in the case of any Information relating to Taxes, employee-related matters or to environmental liabilities, such period shall be extended to the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (giving effect to any extensions thereof). Moreover, no party will destroy, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to destroy, any policies of insurance (or records related to such insurance policies that are necessary to be retained in order to preserve the right of recovery under such policies) without first using its commercially reasonable efforts to notify the other parties of the proposed destruction and giving the other parties reasonable opportunity to take possession of such Information prior to such destruction, if it is possible (in the first party's reasonable judgment) that the other parties may be able to obtain coverage under such policies. (The foregoing includes "occurrence"-based liability policies, which continue to cover liability for alleged harm during their policy period, even if no claim is made based on such alleged harm until after the end of the policy period.)
provided
however
     Section 8.5 . No party shall have any Liability to any other party in the event that any Information exchanged or provided pursuant to this Agreement that is an estimate or forecast, or that is based on an estimate or forecast, is found to be inaccurate, in the absence of willful misconduct by the party providing such Information. No party shall have any Liability to any other party if any Information is destroyed after commercially reasonable efforts by such party to comply with the provisions of Section 8.4.
Limitation of Liability
     Section 8.6 . The rights and obligations granted under this Article VIII are subject to any specific limitations, qualifications or additional provisions on the sharing, exchange or confidential treatment of information set forth in any Dissolution Document.
Other Agreements Providing for Exchange of Information
     Section 8.7 .
Production of Witnesses; Records; Cooperation
          (a) After the date hereof, except in the case of an adversarial Action by one party against the other party (which shall be governed by such discovery rules as may be applicable thereto), each party hereto shall take all reasonable steps to make available to the other party, upon written request, the former, current and future directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents of the Members of its respective Group (whether as witnesses or otherwise) and any books, records or other documents within its control or that it otherwise has the ability to make available, to the extent that such person (giving consideration to business demands of such directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents) or books, records or other documents may reasonably be required in connection with any Action (including preparation for such Action) in which the requesting party may from time to time be involved, regardless of whether such Action is a matter with respect to which indemnification may be sought
 
hereunder. The requesting party shall bear all reasonable costs and expenses in connection therewith.
          (b) If an Indemnifying Party chooses to defend or to seek to compromise or settle any Third Party Claim, or if any party chooses or is required to prosecute, pursue, otherwise evaluate or defend any Action, the other party shall reasonably cooperate in such defense, settlement or compromise, or such prosecution, evaluation or pursuit, as the case may be. The requesting party shall bear all reasonable costs and expenses in connection therewith.
          (c) Without limiting the foregoing, the parties shall cooperate and consult to the extent reasonably necessary with respect to any Actions.
          (d) The obligation of the parties to make available former, current and future directors, officers, employees, other personnel and agents pursuant to this Section 8.7 is intended to be interpreted in a manner so as to facilitate cooperation and shall include the obligation to make available inventors and other officers without regard to whether such individual or the employer of such individual could assert a possible business conflict (subject to the exception set forth in the first sentence of Section 8.7(a)). Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that neither it nor any Member of its respective Group will take any adverse action against any employee of its Group based on such employee's provision of assistance or information to the other party pursuant to Section 8.7(a).
          (e) In connection with any Action contemplated by this Article VIII, the parties will enter into a mutually acceptable joint defense agreement so as to maintain to the extent practicable any applicable attorney-client privilege or work product immunity of either Group.
     Section 8.8 .
Confidentiality
          (a) Subject to Section 8.9 and 10.1, each Member of each Group agrees to hold, and to cause its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives to hold, in strict confidence, with at least the same degree of care that it applies to its respective Group's own confidential and proprietary information pursuant to policies in effect as of the date hereof, all Information concerning the other Group (and the Asset Pool being transferred to such Group) that is either in its possession (including Information in its possession prior to and as of the date hereof) or furnished by the other Group or its respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives at any time pursuant to this Agreement, or any Dissolution Document, and shall not use any such Information other than for such purposes as shall be expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder, except, in each case, to the extent that such Information has been (i) in the public domain through no fault of such party or such party's Group or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives, (ii) later lawfully acquired from other sources by such party (or such party's Group), which sources are not
 
themselves bound by a confidentiality obligation to the knowledge of such party or Members of such party's Group or (iii) independently generated without reference to any proprietary or confidential Information of the other Group.
          (b) Each party agrees not to release or disclose, or permit any member of its Group to release or disclose, any such Information concerning the other Group (or the Asset Pool being transferred to the other Group) to any other Person, except its directors, officers, employees, agents, accountants, counsel and other advisors and representatives who need to know such Information (who shall be advised of their obligations hereunder with respect to such Information; , that, the disclosing party shall be responsible for any breach of this Section 8.8 by such Person to whom it disclosed or released any Information concerning the other Group (or the Asset Pool being transferred to the other Group)) and in compliance with Section 8.9 and Section 10.1. Without limiting the foregoing, when any Information held by one Group concerning the other Group (or the Asset Pool being transferred to the other Group) is no longer needed for the purposes contemplated by this Agreement or any Dissolution Document, each member of the first Group will, except as otherwise required by Law, promptly after request of the other Group either return to the other Group all such Information in a tangible form (including all copies thereof and all notes, extracts or summaries based thereon) or certify to the other Group that it has destroyed such Information (and all electronic or other copies thereof and all notes, extracts or summaries based thereon).
provided
     Section 8.9 . In the event that any party or any Member of its Group either determines on the advice of its counsel that it is required to disclose any Information concerning the other Group (or the Asset Pool being transferred to the other Group) pursuant to applicable Law or receives any demand under lawful process or from any Governmental Authority to disclose or provide Information concerning the other Group (or the Asset Pool being transferred to the other Group) that is subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof, such party shall notify the other Group prior to disclosing or providing such Information and shall cooperate at the expense of the requesting party in seeking any reasonable protective arrangements requested by such other party. Subject to the foregoing, the Person that received such request may thereafter disclose or provide Information to the extent required by such Law (as so advised by counsel) or by lawful process or such Governmental Authority.
Protective Arrangements
     Section 9.1 .
Further Assurances
          (a) In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Agreement and the other Dissolution Documents, but subject to the provisions hereof and thereof, each of the parties hereto shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things, reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws, regulations
 
and agreements to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Dissolution Documents.
          (b) Without limiting the foregoing each party hereto shall cooperate with the other party, and without any further consideration, to execute and deliver, or use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be executed and delivered, all instruments, including instruments of conveyance, assignment and transfer, and to make all filings with, and to obtain all consents, approvals or authorizations of, any Governmental Authority or any other Person under any permit, license, agreement, indenture or other instrument, and to take all such other actions as such party may reasonably be requested to take by any other party hereto from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Agreement and the other Dissolution Documents, in order to effectuate the provisions and purposes of this Agreement and the other Dissolution Documents and the transfers of the Transferred Assets, the assignment and assumption of the Assumed Liabilities and the other transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
     Section 9.2 . Concurrently herewith, certain of the parties and/or their Affiliates are entering into transitional services agreements relating to each respective Asset Pool.
Transitional Services
     Section 9.3 . For a period of 150 days after the date hereof, the Comcast Group shall be entitled to use the trademarks, trade names, service marks, service names, logos and similar proprietary rights of TWC and its Affiliates to the extent incorporated in or on the Comcast Transferred Assets and not part of the Comcast Transferred Assets (collectively, the ""), provided, that (a) the Comcast Group acknowledges that the Time Warner Cable Marks belong to TWC and its Affiliates, and that the Comcast Group shall not acquire any rights therein during or pursuant to such 150 day period; (b) all such Comcast Transferred Assets shall be used in a manner consistent with the use made by the Partnership prior to the date hereof; (c) the Comcast Group shall exercise reasonable efforts to remove all Time Warner Cable Marks from the Comcast Transferred Assets as soon as reasonably practicable following the date hereof; and (d) the use of the Time Warner Cable Marks during such period shall inure to the benefit of TWC; provided, that Comcast Group shall indemnify and hold harmless TWC for any Liabilities arising from or otherwise relating to the Comcast Group's use of the Time Warner Cable Marks. Upon expiration of such 150-day period, the Comcast Group will remove all Time Warner Cable Marks from the Comcast Transferred Assets and destroy all unused letterhead, checks, business-related forms, preprinted form contracts, product literature, sales literature, labels, packaging material and any other materials displaying the Time Warner Cable Marks within ten Business Days. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Comcast Group shall not be required to remove or discontinue using any such proprietary rights that are affixed to converters or other items located in customer homes or properties such that prompt removal is impracticable for the Comcast Group; , that the Comcast Group shall remove or discontinue such proprietary rights promptly upon the return of such converters or other items to their possession.
Use of Names and Logos
Time Warner Cable Marks
provided
 
     Section 9.4 .
Insurance
          (a) The parties intend that Comcast Distribution LLC, after the date hereof, shall be successor-in-interest to and retain all rights and interest (whether known, unknown, contingent or otherwise) that any of the parties or any of their Affiliates have as of the date hereof under any policies of title, property, fire, casualty, liability, life, workers' compensation, libel and slander, and other forms of insurance of any kind to the extent they relate to the Houston Asset Pool and are maintained by or on the behalf of TWE or its Affiliates, including any rights or interests each has, as an insured, named insured, or additional named insured, Subsidiary, Affiliate, division or department, to avail itself of any benefit under any such Insurance Policy or any such agreement related to such policy, in each case which are in force as of the date hereof (each, an ""). The provisions of this Agreement are not intended to relieve any insurer of any Liability under any policy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, TWE shall not be deemed to have made any representation or warranty as to the availability of any Insurance Policy or the rights and benefits provided thereunder.
Insurance Policy
          (b) This Agreement shall not be considered as an attempted assignment of (if such an assignment would be prohibited or would otherwise adversely affect the rights of the insured parties under such policies) any rights or interest under any policy of insurance or as a contract of insurance and shall not be construed to waive any right or remedy of any party in respect of any Insurance Policy or any other contract or policy of insurance.
          (c) TWE does hereby agree that, as and to the extent necessary to give effect to Section 9.4(a), it will assign any chose in action, claim, right or benefit under an Insurance Policy.
          (d) Subject to Section 9.4(e), each of the parties does hereby agree that all duties and obligations under any Insurance Policy, including the fulfillment of any conditions and the payment of any deductibles, retentions, co-insurance payment or retrospective premiums, that correspond in any way with or may be necessary to perfect, preserve or maintain an insured's right to obtain benefits under that Insurance Policy, will be performed by the insured that is seeking the benefits, subject to the indemnification provisions of Article VI. In the event Members of both Groups have claims under a given policy, any deductibles, retentions, co-insurance payments, retrospective premiums, caps, limitations on average and similar items will be appropriately allocated between such parties based on the recoveries they would have obtained in the absence of such items.
          (e) TWE will use commercially reasonable efforts to take such actions as are necessary to cause insurance policies of TWE and its Affiliates that immediately prior to the date hereof provide coverage to or with respect to the Houston Asset Pool to continue to provide such coverage with respect to acts, omissions, and events occurring prior to the date hereof in accordance with their terms as if the transactions contemplated by the Dissolution Documents had not occurred; provided, that, to the extent TWE takes any action with respect to its umbrella insurance policies
 
that similarly affects all of the Kansas & SW Asset Pool but results in such insurance coverage no longer being available (other than a change denying coverage based upon a Person ceasing to be an Affiliate of TWE), TWE shall not be deemed to have breached this Section 9.4 and shall have no liability with respect thereto. TWE will give the Comcast Assignee written notice of the taking of any such action if done during the first 12 months after the date hereof prior to such action or as soon as practicable thereafter. TWE shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, cooperate with and assist Comcast Distribution LLC, if Comcast Distribution LLC determines to make any claim under any such policy with respect to any act, omission or event prior to the date hereof. Comcast Distribution LLC shall use commercially reasonable efforts to promptly notify TWE when it becomes aware of any such claim; , that the failure of Comcast Distribution LLC to provide such notice shall not relieve TWE of its obligations under this Section 9.4, except to the extent that TWE's rights under the applicable insurance policy are prejudiced by such failure to give notice.
provided
     Section 10.1 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, from and after the date hereof, (i) the non-compete provisions of Section 6.2 of the Partnership Agreement shall remain in effect for one year after the date hereof for each set of Related Partners and its Cable Affiliates only as to the municipalities included in the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the other set of Related Partners and (ii) the confidentiality obligations set forth in Section 6.3 of the Partnership Agreement shall remain in effect for each set of Related Partners only as to matters relating to the Asset Pool intended to be distributed to the other set of Related Partners. For the avoidance of doubt, and notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or the other Dissolution Documents (except to the extent expressly inconsistent with this Agreement or any Dissolution Documents), the covenants contained in Sections 5.4(a), 8.4(d), 8.4(e), 8.4(g), 8.4(l), 8.4(m), 8.4(n), 8.4(o), 8.4(q), 8.4(r), 8.4(s), 8.4(t), 8.4(u), 8.4(v), 8.4(y), 10.13, 10.14 and 10.15 of the Partnership Agreement shall, to the extent applicable (and subject to express amendment thereto as provided in Section 10.2 hereof), survive execution and delivery of this Agreement and the dissolution and winding up of the Partnership in accordance with the terms and conditions as set forth in the Partnership Agreement.
Certain Covenants
     Section 10.2 . The sixth sentence of Section 8.4(l) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby deemed amended by inserting "other than, in the case of the Houston Asset Pool, the one described on Schedule 8.4(l) hereto" after the words "commercial agreement or arrangement" and a Schedule 8.4(l) is hereby deemed to be attached to the Partnership Agreement disclosing the following:
Amendment to the Partnership Agreement
     "Capacity License Agreement dated as of July 1, 1998 by and among the Houston Division of Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership, as Licensor, and Time Warner Communications of Houston, L.P. as Licensee."
 
Section 10.3 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement but except as provided in Section 10.1 of this Agreement, the other Dissolution Documents or the Partnership Agreement, all employee-related matters in connection with the Dissolution Procedure shall be governed exclusively by the Employee Matters Agreement except as expressly provided therein.
Employee Matters
     Section 10.4 . (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the other Dissolution Documents or the Partnership Agreement, any costs incurred by the Partnership in connection with the Dissolution Procedure shall be shared equally by the Triggering Partners and the Non-Triggering Partners; that each set of Related Partners shall be responsible for the costs of its own legal counsel and the costs associated with refinancing any Debt allocated to the Asset Pool to be distributed to such set of Related Partners.
Expenses
provided
     (b) All sales, use, transfer and similar taxes or assessments, including transfer fees and similar assessments for Transferred Assets arising from or payable by reason of or otherwise related to the transfers contemplated by this Agreement shall be paid one-half by the TWI Assignee and one-half by the Comcast Assignee (it being understood and agreed that if any such payable is satisfied by a party or any Affiliate thereof, then, promptly after the demand of the paying party, the other party shall reimburse the paying party for one-half of any such amounts paid by the paying party).
     Section 10.5 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE (OTHER THAN ITS RULES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY).
Governing Law
     Section 10.6 . No provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed waived, amended, supplemented or modified by any party, unless such waiver, amendment, supplement or modification is in writing and signed by the authorized representative of the party against whom such waiver, amendment, supplement or modification it is sought to be enforced.
Amendments
     Section 10.7 . This Agreement, the other Dissolution Documents and the Exhibits and Schedules hereto and thereto contain the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof or thereof, supersede all previous agreements, negotiations, discussions, writings, understandings, commitments and conversations with respect to such subject matter and there are no agreements or understandings between the parties other than those set forth or referred to herein or therein.
Entire Agreement
     Section 10.8 . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns; , , that no party hereto may assign its respective rights or delegate its respective obligations under this Agreement without the express prior written consent of each of the other parties hereto.
Binding Effect; Assignment
provided
however
 
     Section 10.9 . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, and shall not be deemed to alter or affect the meaning or interpretation of any provisions hereof.
Headings
     Section 10.10 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
     Section 10.11 . Any notice, request, demand or other communication required or permitted to be given under this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered in person or by first class, prepaid, registered or certified mail, or sent by courier or, if receipt is confirmed, by telecopier:
Notices
     If to any TWI Group Member:
     c/o Time Warner Cable Inc.
     290 Harbor Drive
     Stamford, CT 06902
     Attention: General Counsel
     Telecopy No: (203) 328-4094
     With a Required Copy to:
     Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP
     1285 Avenue of the Americas
     New York, NY 10019-6064
     Attention: Ariel J. Deckelbaum
                         Kelley D. Parker
                         Robert B. Schumer
     Telecopy No: (212) 757-3990
     If to any Comcast Group Member:
     c/o Comcast Corporation
     1500 Market Street
     Philadelphia, PA 19102
     Attention: General Counsel
     Telecopy No: (215) 981-7794
     With a Required Copy to:
 
     Davis Polk & Wardwell
     450 Lexington Avenue
     New York, NY 10017
     Attention: William L. Taylor
     Telecopy No: (212) 450-4800
or to such other address as any party shall have last designated by notice to the other parties, as the case may be. All notices will be deemed to have been received on the date of delivery, which in the case of deliveries by telecopier, will be the date of the sender's confirmation.
     Section 10.12 . The Comcast Partners will cause the Members of the Comcast Group to perform their obligations hereunder. The TWI Partners will cause the Members of the TWI Group to perform their obligations hereunder.
Performance
     Section 10.13 . The Comcast Partners and the TWI Partners each represent to the other that, (i) with respect to each of Comcast Distribution LLC and KCCP Trust, neither such Partners nor any of their Affiliates have taken any action, or caused the Partnership to take any action, the result of which is to cause Comcast Distribution LLC or KCCP Trust, as the case may be, to be treated as an entity that is separate and apart from its owner for U.S. federal Income Tax purposes and (ii) with respect to Comcast Distribution LLC, neither such Partners nor any of their Affiliates have caused Comcast Distribution LLC to conduct any business or activities not primarily related to the business of the Houston Asset Pool.
Certain Representations
     [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     BILL OF SALE AND ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (""), dated January 1, 2007, by and between Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, whose U.S. taxpayer identification number is 06-1516836 (""), and Time Warner EntertainmentAdvance/Newhouse Partnership, a New York general partnership, whose U.S. taxpayer identification number is 13-3790433 (""). All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Distribution Agreement (as defined below).
Bill of Sale
TKCCP
TWI Assignee
     Pursuant to that certain Limited Partnership Agreement of TKCCP, dated as of June 23, 1998, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 11, 1998, Amendment No. 2, dated as of May 16, 2000, Amendment No. 3, dated as of August 23, 2000, Amendment No. 4, dated as of May 1, 2004, and Amendment No. 5, dated as of February 28, 2005 (as amended, the ""), by and among the Partners (as defined therein), the Partners intend to distribute the assets of TKCCP and for TKCCP to be dissolved in accordance with the dissolution provisions of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6  17-101 . .) and pursuant to the Dissolution Procedure set forth in Section 8.4 of the Partnership Agreement.
Partnership Agreement
et
seq
     Pursuant to Section 8.4(h)(ii) of the Partnership Agreement, the TWI Partners have elected to have the Kansas & SW Asset Pool distributed to TWI Assignee, as a designee (as defined in Section 8.4(h)(v) of the Partnership Agreement) of the TWI Partners in complete redemption of the interest of the TWI Partners in TKCCP, subject to the terms of the Partnership Agreement, the Dissolution Agreement and this Bill of Sale.
     Pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 of that certain Master Distribution, Dissolution and Cooperation Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2007 (the ""), by and among TKCCP, TWI Assignee, Comcast Assignee, each of the Partners, each of the TWI Transferred Subsidiaries, each of the Comcast Transferred Subsidiaries and Comcast Distribution LLC, (a) TKCCP has agreed to assign, transfer, convey and deliver to TWI Assignee, and TWI Assignee has agreed to accept from TKCCP, all of TKCCP's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Assets (as defined below) and (b) TWI Assignee has agreed to absolutely and irrevocably assume and agree to be liable and responsible to pay when due, perform and discharge, all the Assumed Liabilities (as defined below), in accordance with their respective terms. "" means the TWI Transferred Assets except to the extent such TWI Transferred Assets are Assets of a TWI Transferred Subsidiary, in which case such TWI Transferred Subsidiary shall retain such TWI Transferred Assets. "" means the TWI Assumed
Distribution Agreement
Transferred Assets
Assumed Liabilities
 
Liabilities except to the extent such TWI Assumed Liabilities are Liabilities of a TWI Transferred Subsidiary, in which case such TWI Transferred Subsidiary shall retain such TWI Assumed Liabilities.
     1. . Effective as of the date hereof, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, TKCCP hereby, except as provided in Section 0, assigns, transfers, conveys and delivers to TWI Assignee, and TWI Assignee hereby accepts from TKCCP, all of TKCCP's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Assets.
Transferred Assets
     the right, title and interest of TKCCP in and to the Transferred Assets unto TWI Assignee, its successors and assigns, to and for its or their use forever.
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD
     2. . Effective as of the date hereof, TWI Assignee hereby absolutely and irrevocably assumes and agrees, from and after the date hereof, to pay, discharge and perform as and when due, the Assumed Liabilities.
Assumed Liabilities
     3.  Except with respect to the Transferred Assets specifically described in Section 5 below, TKCCP hereby constitutes and appoints TWI Assignee, its successors and assigns, the true and lawful attorneys of TKCCP, with full power of substitution, in the name and stead of TKCCP, but on behalf and for the benefit of TWI Assignee, its successors and assigns, to demand and receive any and all of the Transferred Assets conveyed, assigned or transferred to TWI Assignee hereunder, to give receipts and releases for and in respect of the same, or any part thereof, and to do all acts and things in relation to such Transferred Assets that TWI Assignee, its successors and assigns, shall deem desirable. Such power of attorney is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable by TKCCP, by reason of TKCCP's dissolution or for any reason whatsoever.
.
TWI Assignee as Attorney-in-Fact
     4.  Without limiting the foregoing, TKCCP hereby constitutes and appoints TWI Assignee, its successors and assigns, the true and lawful attorneys of TKCCP, with full power of substitution, in the name and stead of TKCCP, but on behalf and for the benefit of TWI Assignee, its successors and assigns, to cash, deposit, endorse or negotiate checks received on or after the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby made out to TKCCP in payment for cable television and related services provided by the TWI Distributed Systems in respect of which an interest is transferred pursuant to this Bill of Sale. Such power of attorney is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable by TKCCP, by reason of TKCCP's dissolution or for any reason whatsoever.
.
TWI Assignee as Attorney-in-Fact for Accounts Receivable
     5. .
Delayed Assets
          a. Any Transferred Asset, the assignment, transfer, conveyance or delivery of which without the consent, authorization, approval or waiver of a third party
 
would constitute a breach or other contravention of Law or such Transferred Asset or in any way adversely affect the rights of TKCCP, the Partners or the TWI Assignee thereunder (a ""), shall not be assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered until the earlier of (i) such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained and (ii) immediately prior to the dissolution of the Partnership on the Dissolution Date, at which time such Delayed Asset shall be automatically assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered without further action on the part of TKCCP, the Partners or the TWI Assignee. Until the earlier of (i) such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained and (ii) immediately prior to the dissolution of the Partnership on the Dissolution Date, (A) TKCCP and the TWI Assignee shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the relevant consent, authorization, approval or waiver, (B) TKCCP shall endeavor to provide the TWI Assignee with the benefits under each Delayed Asset as if such Delayed Asset had been assigned to the TWI Assignee, including preserving the benefits of and enforcing for the benefit of the TWI Assignee, at the TWI Assignee's expense, any and all rights of TKCCP under such Delayed Asset, and (C) to the extent permissible with respect to such Delayed Asset, the TWI Assignee shall (1) be responsible for the obligations of TKCCP with respect to such Delayed Asset and (2) act as the agent of TKCCP in preserving the benefits of and enforcing any and all rights of TKCCP in such Delayed Asset.
Delayed Asset
          b. Any Delayed Asset shall be deemed a Transferred Asset for purposes of determining whether any Liability is an Assumed Liability. Following the assignment, transfer, conveyance and delivery of any Delayed Asset, the applicable Delayed Asset shall be treated for all purposes of this Bill of Sale, the Partnership Agreement, the Distribution Agreement and the other Dissolution Documents as a TWI Transferred Asset.
     6.
.
Further Assurances
          a. In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Bill of Sale, but subject to the provisions hereof, each of the parties hereto shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things, reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws, regulations and agreements to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Bill of Sale.
          b. TKCCP shall do, execute, acknowledge and deliver or shall cause to be done, executed, acknowledged and delivered such further acts, transfers, conveyances, assignments and assurances as reasonably may be required to assure, convey, transfer, confirm, and vest to and in TWI Assignee all of the Transferred Assets.
     7.  This Bill of Sale is executed and delivered pursuant to and to effect the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement, subject to the covenants, representations, warranties, and other provisions thereof. No provision set forth in this Bill of Sale shall be deemed to enlarge, alter or amend the terms or provisions of the Distribution Agreement. This Bill of Sale is not intended to (i) effect the transfer of any owned real property or (ii) effect the transfer
.
Relation to the Agreement; Conflict
 
of any Transferred Asset or the assumption of any Assumed Liability that is specifically transferred or assumed pursuant to a separate instrument of transfer or assumption between the parties hereto.
     8. Nothing in this Bill of Sale, express or implied, is intended or shall be construed to confer upon, or give to, any Person other than TWI Assignee or TKCCP and, subject to Section 10.8 of the Distribution Agreement, their respective successors and assigns (including, without limitation, any wholly-owned Subsidiary of TWI Assignee to which any portion of the Transferred Assets are transferred after the effectiveness of this Bill of Sale) any remedy or claim under or by reason of this Bill of Sale or any terms, covenants or conditions hereof, and all of the terms, covenants, conditions, promises and agreements contained in this Bill of Sale shall be for the benefit of only TWI Assignee or TKCCP and their respective successors and assigns; , that TWI Assignee and TKCCP and their respective successors and assigns shall have the right to specifically enforce the transactions contemplated by this Bill of Sale.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
provided
     9. . This Bill of Sale may be executed in any number of counterparts (including by facsimile), each of which, when executed, shall be deemed to be an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     TKCCP and TWI Assignee have executed this Bill of Sale as of the date set forth above.
     The foregoing instrument was subscribed and sworn to before me this ___ day of , ___ by , as for Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P. my hand and official seal.
                    
                    
                    
                 
                    
                    
     My commission expires: .
                    
                    
                    
                    
 
     The foregoing instrument was subscribed and sworn to before me this ___ day of , ___ by , as for TWE-A/N Holdco, L.P., the Managing Partner of Time Warner Entertainment-Advance/Newhouse Partnership.
                    
                    
                    
                 
                    
                    
     Witness my hand and official seal.
     My commission expires: .
                    
                    
                    
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
     BILL OF SALE AND ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (""), dated January 1, 2007, by and between Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, whose U.S. taxpayer identification number is 06-1516836 (""), and Houston TKCCP Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, whose U.S. taxpayer identification number is 20-5376777 (""). All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Distribution Agreement (as defined below).
Bill of Sale
TKCCP
Comcast Distribution LLC
     Pursuant to that certain Limited Partnership Agreement of TKCCP, dated as of June 23, 1998, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 11, 1998, Amendment No. 2, dated as of May 16, 2000, Amendment No. 3, dated as of August 23, 2000, Amendment No. 4, dated as of May 1, 2004, and Amendment No. 5, dated as of February 28, 2005 (as amended, the ""), by and among the Partners (as defined therein), the Partners intend to distribute the assets of TKCCP and for TKCCP to be dissolved in accordance with the dissolution provisions of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (Del. Code Ann. Tit. 6  17-101 . .) and pursuant to the Dissolution Procedure set forth in Section 8.4 of the Partnership Agreement.
Partnership Agreement
et
seq
     Pursuant to Section 8.4(h)(ii) of the Partnership Agreement, the Comcast Partners have elected to have the Houston Asset Pool distributed to Comcast Assignee, as a designee (as defined in Section 8.4(h)(v) of the Partnership Agreement) of the Comcast Partners in complete redemption of the interest of the Comcast Partners in TKCCP, subject to the terms of the Partnership Agreement, the Dissolution Agreement and this Bill of Sale.
     Pursuant to Sections 3.1, 3.3 and 3.6 of that certain Master Distribution, Dissolution and Cooperation Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2007 (the ""), by and among TKCCP, TWI Assignee, Comcast Assignee, each of the Partners, each of the TWI Transferred Subsidiaries, each of the Comcast Transferred Subsidiaries and Comcast Distribution LLC, (a) TKCCP has agreed to assign, transfer, convey and deliver to Comcast Distribution LLC, and Comcast Distribution LLC has agreed to accept from TKCCP, all of TKCCP's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Assets (as defined below) and (b) Comcast Distribution LLC has agreed to absolutely and irrevocably assume and agree to be liable and responsible to pay when due, perform and discharge, all the Assumed Liabilities (as defined below), in accordance with their respective terms. "" means the Comcast Transferred Assets except to the extent such Comcast Transferred Assets are Assets of a Comcast Transferred Subsidiary, in which case such Comcast Transferred Subsidiary shall retain
Distribution Agreement
Transferred Assets
 
such Comcast Transferred Assets. "" means the Comcast Assumed Liabilities except to the extent such Comcast Assumed Liabilities are Liabilities of a Comcast Transferred Subsidiary, in which case such Comcast Transferred Subsidiary shall retain such Comcast Assumed Liabilities.
Assumed Liabilities
      Effective as of the date hereof, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, TKCCP hereby, except as provided in Section 5, assigns, transfers, conveys and delivers to Comcast Distribution LLC and Comcast Distribution LLC hereby accepts from TKCCP, all of TKCCP's right, title and interest in and to the Transferred Assets.
1.
Transferred Assets
.
     the right, title and interest of TKCCP in and to the Transferred Assets unto Comcast Distribution LLC, its successors and assigns, to and for its or their use forever.
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD
     2. Effective as of the date hereof, Comcast Distribution LLC hereby absolutely and irrevocably assumes and agrees, from and after the date hereof, to pay, discharge and perform as and when due, the Assumed Liabilities.
Assumed Liabilities
.
     3.  Except with respect to the Transferred Assets specifically described in Section 5 below, TKCCP hereby constitutes and appoints Comcast Distribution LLC, its successors and assigns, the true and lawful attorneys of TKCCP, with full power of substitution, in the name and stead of TKCCP, but on behalf and for the benefit of Comcast Distribution LLC, its successors and assigns, to demand and receive any and all of the Transferred Assets conveyed, assigned or transferred to Comcast Distribution LLC hereunder, to give receipts and releases for and in respect of the same, or any part thereof, and to do all acts and things in relation to such Transferred Assets that Comcast Distribution LLC, its successors and assigns, shall deem desirable. Such power of attorney is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable by TKCCP, by reason of TKCCP's dissolution or for any reason whatsoever.
.
Comcast Distribution LLC as Attorney-in-Fact
     4.  Without limiting the foregoing, TKCCP hereby constitutes and appoints Comcast Distribution LLC, its successors and assigns, the true and lawful attorneys of TKCCP, with full power of substitution, in the name and stead of TKCCP, but on behalf and for the benefit of Comcast Distribution LLC, its successors and assigns, to cash, deposit, endorse or negotiate checks received on or after the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby made out to TKCCP in payment for cable television and related services provided by the Comcast Distributed Systems in respect of which an interest is transferred pursuant to this Bill of Sale. Such power of attorney is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable by TKCCP, by reason of TKCCP's dissolution or for any reason whatsoever.
.
Comcast Distribution LLC as Attorney-in-Fact for Accounts Receivable
 
5.
Delayed Assets.
          a. Any Transferred Asset, the assignment, transfer, conveyance or delivery of which (or, following such assignment, transfer, conveyance or delivery, the transfer of the Equity Securities of Comcast Distribution LLC to Comcast Assignee) without the consent, authorization, approval or waiver of a third party would constitute a breach or other contravention of Law or such Transferred Asset or in any way adversely affect the rights of TKCCP, Comcast Distribution LLC, the Partners or the Comcast Assignee thereunder (a ""), shall not be assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered until the earlier of (i) such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained and (ii) immediately prior to the dissolution of the Partnership on the Dissolution Date, at which time such Delayed Asset shall be automatically assigned, transferred, conveyed or delivered without further action on the part of TKCCP, Comcast Distribution LLC, the Partners or the Comcast Assignee. Until the earlier of (i) such time as such consent, authorization, approval or waiver is obtained and (ii) immediately prior to the dissolution of the Partnership on the Dissolution Date, (A) TKCCP and Comcast Distribution LLC shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the relevant consent, authorization, approval or waiver, (B) TKCCP shall endeavor to provide Comcast Distribution LLC with the benefits under each Delayed Asset as if such Delayed Asset had been assigned to Comcast Distribution LLC, including preserving the benefits of and enforcing for the benefit of Comcast Distribution LLC, at Comcast Distribution LLC's expense, any and all rights of TKCCP under such Delayed Asset, and (C) to the extent permissible with respect to such Delayed Asset, Comcast Distribution LLC shall (1) be responsible for the obligations of TKCCP with respect to such Delayed Asset and (2) act as the agent of TKCCP in preserving the benefits of and enforcing any and all rights of TKCCP in such Delayed Asset.
Delayed Asset
          b. Any Delayed Asset shall be deemed a Transferred Asset for purposes of determining whether any Liability is an Assumed Liability. Following the assignment, transfer, conveyance and delivery of any Delayed Asset, the applicable Delayed Asset shall be treated for all purposes of this Bill of Sale, the Partnership Agreement, the Distribution Agreement and the other Dissolution Documents as a Comcast Transferred Asset.
     6. Each Comcast Selected Employee (as defined in the Employee Matters Agreement) who, as of immediately prior to the Distribution Date, was a current employee (including any employee on a leave of absence (including, without limitation, paid or unpaid leave, short-term disability, medical, personal, or any other form of authorized leave but excluding any employee who is on long-term disability)) of TWE, TWE-A/N or any of their respective Affiliates is hereby deemed an employee of Comcast Distribution LLC.
Comcast Selected Employees.
     7. .
Further Assurances
          a. In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Bill of Sale, but subject to the provisions hereof, each of the parties hereto shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or
 
cause to be done, all things, reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws, regulations and agreements to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Bill of Sale.
          b. TKCCP shall do, execute, acknowledge and deliver or shall cause to be done, executed, acknowledged and delivered such further acts, transfers, conveyances, assignments and assurances as reasonably may be required to assure, convey, transfer, confirm, and vest to and in Comcast Distribution LLC all of the Transferred Assets.
     8.  This Bill of Sale is executed and delivered pursuant to and to effect the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement, subject to the covenants, representations, warranties, and other provisions thereof. No provision set forth in this Bill of Sale shall be deemed to enlarge, alter or amend the terms or provisions of the Distribution Agreement. This Bill of Sale is not intended to (i) effect the transfer of any owned real property or (ii) effect the transfer of any Transferred Asset or the assumption of any Assumed Liability that is specifically transferred or assumed pursuant to a separate instrument of transfer or assumption between the parties hereto.
.
Relation to the Agreement; Conflict
      Nothing in this Bill of Sale, express or implied, is intended or shall be construed to confer upon, or give to, any Person other than Comcast Distribution LLC or TKCCP and, subject to Section 10.8 of the Distribution Agreement, their respective successors and assigns (including, without limitation, any wholly-owned Subsidiary of Comcast Distribution LLC to which any portion of the Transferred Assets are transferred after the effectiveness of this Bill of Sale) any remedy or claim under or by reason of this Bill of Sale or any terms, covenants or conditions hereof, and all of the terms, covenants, conditions, promises and agreements contained in this Bill of Sale shall be for the benefit of only Comcast Distribution LLC or TKCCP and their respective successors and assigns; , that Comcast Distribution LLC and TKCCP and their respective successors and assigns shall have the right to specifically enforce the transactions contemplated by this Bill of Sale.
9.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
provided
     10. . This Bill of Sale may be executed in any number of counterparts (including by facsimile), each of which, when executed, shall be deemed to be an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     TKCCP and Comcast Distribution LLC have executed this Bill of Sale as of the date set forth above.
     The foregoing instrument was subscribed and sworn to before me this ___ day of , ___by , as for Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P. my hand and official seal.
                    
                    
                    
                 
                    
                    
     My commission expires: .
                    
                    
                    
                    
 
     The foregoing instrument was subscribed and sworn to before me this ___ day of , ___by , as for Texas And Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P., the sole member of Houston TKCCP Holdings, LLC.
                    
                    
                    
                 
                    
                    
     Witness my hand and official seal.
     My commission expires: .
                    
                    
                    
                    
 
 

 
Exhibit 21.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. maintains over 100 subsidiaries. Set forth below are the names of certain controlled subsidiaries, at least 50% owned, directly or indirectly, of Time Warner Cable Inc. that own and operate cable television systems and/or provide IP-based telephony or high-speed data services. The names of various consolidated wholly owned subsidiaries that carry on the same line of business as Time Warner Cable Inc. have been omitted. None of the omitted subsidiaries, considered either alone or together with the other subsidiaries of its immediate parent, constitutes a significant subsidiary.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Adelphia Communications Corporation:
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Adelphia Communications Corporation ("Adelphia") and its subsidiaries and other consolidated entities from June 25, 2002), collectively, the "Company," at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
(Debtors-in-Possession
 
The consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on June 25, 2002, Adelphia and substantially all of its domestic subsidiaries filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. In addition, the Company is involved in material litigation, the ultimate outcome of which is not presently determinable. The uncertainties inherent in the bankruptcy and litigation process, the Company's net capital deficiency and the expiration of the Company's extended credit facility on August 7, 2006 raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amount and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of these uncertainties.
debtor-in-possession
 
As discussed in Notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index, effective January 1, 2004, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index, the Company changed its method of computing amortization on customer relationship intangible assets as of January 1, 2004.
No. 46-R,
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.
 
/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
McLean, Virginia
March 28, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1:  Background and Basis of Presentation
 
Adelphia Communications Corporation ("Adelphia"), its consolidated subsidiaries and other consolidated entities (collectively, the "Company") are engaged primarily in the cable television business. The cable systems owned by the Company are located in 31 states and Brazil. In June 2002, Adelphia and substantially all of its domestic subsidiaries (the "Debtors"), filed voluntary petitions to reorganize (the "Chapter 11 Cases") under Chapter 11 of Title 11 ("Chapter 11") of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code") in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the "Bankruptcy Court"). On October 6 and November 15, 2005, certain additional subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions to reorganize, at which time they became part of the Debtors and the Chapter 11 Cases. Effective April 20, 2005, Adelphia entered into definitive agreements (the "Purchase Agreements") with Time Warner NY Cable LLC ("TW NY") and Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") which provide for the sale of substantially all of the Company's U.S. assets (the "Sale Transaction"). For additional information, see Note 2.
 
Effective January 1, 2004, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 46, (as subsequently revised in December 2003, "FIN 46-R") and began consolidating certain cable television entities formerly owned by members of John J. Rigas' family (collectively, the "Rigas Family") that are subject to co-borrowing arrangements with the Company (the "Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities"). The Company has concluded that the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities represent variable interest entities for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, all references to the Company prior to January 1, 2004 exclude the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities and all references to the Company subsequent to January 1, 2004 include the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities. As a result of the consolidation of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities for periods commencing in 2004, the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows are not comparable to prior periods. The Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities have not filed for bankruptcy protection. For additional information, see Note 5.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
Prior to January 1, 2004, these consolidated financial statements do not include the accounts of any of the entities in which members of the Rigas Family directly or indirectly held controlling interests (collectively, the "Rigas Family Entities"). The Rigas Family Entities include the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, as well as other Rigas Family entities (the "Other Rigas Entities"). The Company believes that under the guidelines which existed for periods prior to January 1, 2004, the Company did not have a controlling financial interest, including majority voting interest, control by contract or otherwise in any of the Rigas Family Entities. Accordingly, the Company did not meet the criteria for consolidation of any of the Rigas Family Entities.
 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes continuity of operations, realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business, and do not purport to show, reflect or provide for the consequences of the Debtors' Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings. In particular, these consolidated financial statements do not purport to show: (i) as to assets, the amount that may be realized upon their sale or their availability to satisfy liabilities; (ii) as to pre-petition liabilities, the amounts at which claims or contingencies may be settled, or the status and priority thereof; (iii) as to stockholders' equity accounts, the effect of any changes that may be made in the capitalization of the Company; or (iv) as to operations, the effect of any changes that may be made in its business.
 
In May 2002, certain Rigas Family members resigned from their positions as directors and executive officers of the Company. In addition, the Rigas Family owned Adelphia $0.01 par value Class A common stock ("Class A Common Stock") and Adelphia $0.01 par value Class B common stock ("Class B Common Stock") with a majority of the voting power in Adelphia, and was not able to exercise such voting power since the Debtors filed for protection under the Bankruptcy Code in June 2002. Pursuant to the Consent Order of Forfeiture entered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the "District Court") on June 8, 2005 (the "Forfeiture Order"), all right, title and interest of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities in the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport Television Cable Co. ("Coudersport") and Bucktail Broadcasting
 
 
 
 
Note 1:  Background and Basis of Presentation (Continued)
 
Corporation ("Bucktail")), certain specified real estate and any securities of the Company were forfeited to the United States on or about June 8, 2005 and such assets and securities are expected to be conveyed to the Company (subject to completion of forfeiture proceedings before a federal judge to determine if there are any superior claims) in furtherance of the agreement between the Company and the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York (the "U.S. Attorney") dated April 25, 2005 (the "Non-Prosecution Agreement"), as discussed in Note 16.
 
Although the Company is operating as a in the Chapter 11 Cases, the Company's ability to control the activities and operations of its subsidiaries that are also Debtors may be limited pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. However, because the bankruptcy proceedings for the Debtors are consolidated for administrative purposes in the same Bankruptcy Court and will be overseen by the same judge, the financial statements of Adelphia and its subsidiaries have been presented on a combined basis, which is consistent with consolidated financial statements (see Note 2). All inter-entity transactions between Adelphia, its subsidiaries and, beginning in 2004, the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities have been eliminated in consolidation.
debtor-in-possession
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company
 
Overview
 
On June 25, 2002 ("Petition Date"), the Debtors filed voluntary petitions to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. On June 10, 2002, Century Communications Corporation ("Century"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Adelphia, filed a voluntary petition to reorganize under Chapter 11. On October 6 and November 15, 2005, certain additional subsidiaries of Adelphia filed voluntary petitions to reorganize under Chapter 11. The Debtors, which include Century and the subsequent filers, are currently operating their business as under Chapter 11. Included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements are subsidiaries that have not filed voluntary petitions under the Bankruptcy Code, including the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities.
debtors-in-possession
 
On July 11, 2002, a statutory committee of unsecured creditors (the "Creditors' Committee") was appointed, and on July 31, 2002, a statutory committee of equity holders (the "Equity Committee" and, together with the Creditors' Committee, the "Committees") was appointed. The Committees have the right to, among other things, review and object to certain business transactions and may participate in the formulation of the Debtors' plan of reorganization. Under the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors were provided with specified periods during which only the Debtors could propose and file a plan of reorganization (the "Exclusive Period") and solicit acceptances thereto (the "Solicitation Period"). The Debtors received several extensions of the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period from the Bankruptcy Court with the latest extension of the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period being through February 17, 2004 and April 20, 2004, respectively. In early 2004, the Debtors filed a motion requesting an additional extension of the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period. However, in 2004, the Equity Committee filed a motion to terminate the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period and other objections were filed regarding the Debtors' request. The Bankruptcy Court has extended the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period until the hearing on the motions is held and a determination by the Bankruptcy Court is made. No hearing has been scheduled. For additional information, see Note 16.
 
Confirmation of Plan of Reorganization
 
The Debtors have filed several proposed joint plans of reorganization and related disclosure statements with the Bankruptcy Court. The Debtors most recently filed their Fourth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization (the "Plan") and related Fourth Amended Disclosure Statement (the "Disclosure Statement") with the Bankruptcy Court on November 21, 2005. The Plan contemplates, among other things, consummation of the Sale Transaction and
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
distribution of the cash and Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC") Class A common stock (the "TWC Class A Common Stock") received pursuant to the Sale Transaction to the stakeholders of the Debtors in accordance with the Plan. The Plan and Disclosure Statement also include disclosures and modifications to reflect rulings of the Bankruptcy Court or settlements with certain parties objecting to approval of the Disclosure Statement.
 
For the Plan to be confirmed and become effective, the Debtors must, among other things:
 
 
By order dated November 23, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Disclosure Statement as containing "adequate information." By December 12, 2005, the Debtors completed the mailing of the solicitation packages. The voting deadline to accept or reject the Plan is April 6, 2006, and in the case of securities held through an intermediary, the deadline for instructions to be received by the intermediary is April 3, 2006 or such other date as specified by the applicable intermediary. The confirmation hearing on the Plan is scheduled to commence on April 24, 2006. Before it can issue a confirmation order, the Bankruptcy Court must find that either each class of impaired claims or equity interests has accepted the Plan or the Plan meets the requirements of the Bankruptcy Code to confirm the Plan over the objections of dissenting classes. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court must find that the Plan meets certain other requirements specified in the Bankruptcy Code.
 
Sale of Assets
 
Effective April 20, 2005, Adelphia entered into the Sale Transaction. Upon the closing of the Sale Transaction, Adelphia will receive an aggregate consideration of cash in the amount of approximately $12.7 billion plus shares of TWC Class A Common Stock, which are expected to represent 16% of the outstanding equity securities of TWC as of the closing. Such percentage: (i) assumes the redemption of Comcast's interest in TWC, the inclusion in the sale to TW NY of all of the cable systems owned by the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities contemplated to be purchased by TW NY pursuant to the Sale Transaction and that there is no Expanded Transaction (as defined below); and (ii) is subject to adjustment for issuances pursuant to employee stock programs (subject to a cap) and issuances of securities for fair consideration. The TWC Class A Common Stock is expected to be listed on The New York Stock Exchange. The purchase price payable by TW NY and Comcast is subject to certain adjustments. TWC, Comcast and certain of their affiliates have also agreed to swap certain cable systems and unwind Comcast's investments in TWC and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a subsidiary of TWC ("TWE"). The Sale Transaction does not include the Company's interest in Century/ML Cable Venture ("Century/ML Cable"), a joint venture that owns and operates cable systems in Puerto Rico, which Century and ML Media Partners, L.P. ("ML Media") sold to San Juan Cable, LLC ("San Juan Cable") effective October 31, 2005. For additional information, see Notes 8 and 16.
 
As part of the Sale Transaction, Adelphia has agreed to transfer to TW NY and Comcast the assets related to the cable systems that are nominally owned by certain of the Rigas Entities and are managed by the Company (those Rigas Entities are herein referred to as the "Managed Cable Entities"). Pursuant to the Forfeiture Order, all right, title and interest of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities in the Rigas Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail) have been forfeited to the United States. In furtherance of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, the Company expects to obtain ownership (subject to completion of forfeiture proceedings before a federal judge to determine if there are any superior claims) of all of the Rigas
Co-Borrowing
Co-Borrowing
Co-Borrowing
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Entities other than two small entities (Coudersport and Bucktail). Upon obtaining ownership of such Rigas Entities, the Company expects to file voluntary petitions to reorganize such entities in proceedings jointly administered with the Debtors' Chapter 11 Cases. Once these entities emerge from bankruptcy, Adelphia expects to be able to transfer to TW NY and Comcast the assets of the Managed Cable Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail) as part of the Sale Transaction. If the Company is unable to transfer all of the assets of the Managed Cable Entities to Comcast and TW NY at the closing of the Sale Transaction, the initial purchase price payable by Comcast and by TW NY would be reduced by an aggregate amount of up to $600,000,000 and $390,000,000, respectively, but would become payable to the extent such assets are transferred to Comcast or TW NY within 15 months of the closing. Adelphia believes that the failure to transfer the assets of Coudersport and Bucktail to TW NY and Comcast will result in an aggregate purchase price reduction of approximately $23,000,000, reflecting a reduction to the purchase price payable by TW NY of approximately $15,000,000 and by Comcast of approximately $8,000,000.
Co-Borrowing
Co-Borrowing
 
Pursuant to a separate agreement, dated as of April 20, 2005, TWC, among other things, has guaranteed the obligations of TW NY under the asset purchase agreement between TW NY and Adelphia.
 
Until a plan of reorganization is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court and becomes effective, the Sale Transaction cannot be consummated. The closing of the Sale Transaction is also subject to the satisfaction or waiver of conditions customary to transactions of this type, including, among others: (i) receipt of applicable regulatory approvals, including the consent of the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") to the transfer of certain licenses, and, subject to certain exceptions, any applicable approvals of local franchising authorities ("LFAs") to the change in ownership of the cable systems operated by the Company to the extent not preempted by section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code; (ii) expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended ("HSR Act"); (iii) the offer and sale of the shares of TWC Class A Common Stock to be issued in the Sale Transaction having been exempted from registration pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Plan or a no-action letter from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), or a registration statement covering the offer and sale of such shares having been declared effective; (iv) the TWC Class A Common Stock to be issued in the Sale Transaction being freely tradable and not subject to resale restrictions, except in certain circumstances; (v) approval of the shares of TWC Class A Common Stock to be issued in the Sale Transaction for listing on the New York Stock Exchange; (vi) entry by the Bankruptcy Court of a final order confirming the Plan and, contemporaneously with the closing of the Sale Transaction, consummation of the Plan; (vii) satisfactory settlement by Adelphia of the claims and causes of action brought by the SEC and the investigations by the United States Department of Justice (the "DoJ"); (viii) the absence of any material adverse effect with respect to TWC's business and certain significant components of the Company's business (without taking into consideration any loss of subscribers by the Company's business (or results thereof) already reflected in the projections specified in the asset purchase agreements or the purchase price adjustments); (ix) the number of eligible basic subscribers (as the term is used in the purchase agreements) served by the Company's cable systems as of a specified date prior to the closing of the Sale Transaction not being below an agreed upon threshold; (x) the absence of an actual change in law, or proposed change in law that has a reasonable possibility of being enacted, that would adversely affect the tax treatment accorded to the Sale Transaction with respect to TW NY; (xi) a filing of an election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"), by each of Century-TCI California Communications, L.P., Parnassos Communications, L.P. and Western NY Cablevision L.P. (the "Century-TCI/Parnassos Partnerships"); and (xii) the provision of certain audited and unaudited financial information by Adelphia.
Hart-Scott-Rodino
 
Subject to the Expanded Transaction (as defined below), the closing under each Purchase Agreement is also conditioned on a contemporaneous closing under the other Purchase Agreement. On January 31, 2006, the Federal Trade Commission closed its antitrust investigation under the HSR Act of the Sale Transaction. In addition, the
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Company believes that it has received the necessary applicable approvals of LFAs to the change in ownership of the cable systems operated by the Company. The Company expects the closing of the Sale Transaction to occur by July 31, 2006, the date under the Purchase Agreements after which either party may terminate, subject to certain exceptions, the applicable Purchase Agreement if the closing has not already occurred.
 
Adelphia received a letter, dated March 24, 2006, from each of TWC and Comcast alleging that Adelphia's implementation of a system, required by the Purchase Agreements to be implemented prior to the closing of the Sale Transaction, by which eligible basic subscribers (as such term is used in the Purchase Agreements) can be tracked materially breaches the Purchase Agreements insofar as it does not include within it certain marketing promotions utilized by Adelphia. Adelphia, in letters to TW NY and Comcast, dated March 27, 2006, has denied that Adelphia's actions constitute a material breach, but has determined, without prejudice to its position, to incorporate a method of tracking such marketing promotions as part of its subscriber tracking system. Adelphia does not believe that such marketing promotions are required by the terms of the relevant Purchase Agreements to be tracked by a subscriber tracking system that, as required by the Purchase Agreements, would be reasonably expected to accurately track eligible basic subscribers. Under the Purchase Agreements, any breach that would preclude Adelphia from providing a certificate at the closing of the Sale Transaction that each of the covenants in the Purchase Agreements (including the covenant to implement the tracking system) has been duly performed in all material respects would constitute a failure of a condition to closing of the Sale Transaction in favor of each of TW NY and Comcast, and if not cured, could provide TW NY and Comcast a basis for terminating their respective Purchase Agreements.
 
Pursuant to a letter agreement dated as of April 20, 2005, and the asset purchase agreement between Adelphia and TW NY, TW NY has agreed to purchase the cable operations of Adelphia that Comcast would have acquired if Comcast's purchase agreement is terminated prior to closing as a result of the failure to obtain FCC or applicable antitrust approvals (the "Expanded Transaction"). In such event, and assuming TW NY received such approvals, TW NY will pay the $3.5 billion purchase price to have been paid by Comcast, less Comcast's allocable share of the liabilities of the Century-TCI/Parnassos Partnerships, which shall not be less than $549,000,000 or more than $600,000,000. Consummation of the Sale Transaction, however, is not subject to the consummation of the agreement by TWC, Comcast and certain of their affiliates to swap certain cable systems and unwind Comcast's investments in TWC and TWE, as described above. There is no assurance that TW NY would be able to obtain the required FCC or applicable antitrust approvals for the Expanded Transaction.
 
The Purchase Agreements with TW NY and Comcast contain certain termination rights for Adelphia, TW NY and Comcast, and further provide that, upon termination of the Purchase Agreements under specified circumstances, Adelphia may be required to pay TW NY a termination fee of approximately $353,000,000 and Comcast a termination fee of $87,500,000.
 
Certain fees are due to the Company's financial advisors upon successful completion of a sale, which are calculated as a percentage (0.11% to 0.20%) of the sale value. Additional fees may be payable depending on the outcome of the sales process. Such fees cannot be determined until the closing of the Sale Transaction.
 
Pre-Petition Obligations
 
Pre-petition and post-petition obligations of the Debtors are treated differently under the Bankruptcy Code. Due to the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases and the Debtors' failure to comply with certain financial and other covenants, the Debtors are in default on substantially all of their pre-petition debt obligations. As a result of the Chapter 11 filing, all actions to collect the payment of pre-petition indebtedness are subject to compromise or other treatment under a plan of reorganization. Generally, actions to enforce or otherwise effect payment of pre-petition liabilities are stayed against the Debtors. The Bankruptcy Court has approved the Debtors' motions to pay certain pre-petition obligations including, but not limited to, employee wages, salaries, commissions, incentive
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
compensation and other related benefits. The Debtors have been paying and intend to continue to pay undisputed post-petition claims in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the Debtors may assume or reject pre-petition executory contracts and unexpired leases with the approval of the Bankruptcy Court. Any damages resulting from the rejection of executory contracts and unexpired leases are treated as general unsecured claims and will be classified as liabilities subject to compromise. For additional information concerning liabilities subject to compromise, see below.
 
The ultimate amount of the Debtors' liabilities will be determined during the Debtors' claims resolution process. The Bankruptcy Court established a bar date of January 9, 2004 (the "Bar Date") for filing proofs of claim against the Debtors' estates. A bar date is the date by which proofs of claim must be filed if a claim ant disagrees with how its claim appears on the Debtors' Schedules of Liabilities. However, under certain limited circumstances, claimants may file proofs of claims after the bar date. As of the Bar Date, approximately 17,000 proofs of claim asserting in excess of $3.20 trillion in claims were filed and, as of December 31, 2005, approximately 18,000 proofs of claim asserting approximately $3.78 trillion in claims were filed, in each case including duplicative claims, but excluding any estimated amounts for unliquidated claims. The aggregate amount of claims filed with the Bankruptcy Court far exceeds the Debtors' estimate of ultimate liability. The Debtors currently are in the process of reviewing, analyzing and reconciling the scheduled and filed claims. The Debtors expect that the claims resolution process will take significant time to complete following the consummation of the Plan. As the amounts of the allowed claims are determined, adjustments will be recorded in liabilities subject to compromise and reorganization expenses due to bankruptcy.
 
The Debtors have filed numerous omnibus objections that address $3.68 trillion in claims, consisting primarily of duplicative claims. Certain claims addressed in such objections were either: (i) reduced and allowed; (ii) disallowed and expunged; or (iii) subordinated by orders of the Bankruptcy Court. Hearings on certain claims objections are ongoing. Certain other objections have been adjourned to allow the parties to continue to reconcile such claims. Additional omnibus objections may be filed as the claims resolution process continues.
 
("DIP") Credit Facility
Debtor-in-Possession
 
In order to provide liquidity following the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Debtors entered into a $1,500,000,000 credit facility (as amended, the "DIP Facility"). On May 10, 2004, the Debtors entered into a $1,000,000,000 extended credit facility (the "First Extended DIP Facility"), which amended and restated the DIP Facility in its entirety. On February 25, 2005, the Debtors entered into a $1,300,000,000 further extended credit facility (the "Second Extended DIP Facility"), which amended and restated the First Extended DIP Facility in its entirety. On March 17, 2006, the Debtors entered into a $1,300,000,000 further extended credit facility (the "Third Extended DIP Facility"), which amended and restated the Second Extended DIP Facility in its entirety. For additional information, see Note 10.
debtor-in-possession
debtor-in-possession
debtor-in-possession
debtor-in-possession
 
Exit Financing Commitment
 
On February 25, 2004, Adelphia executed a commitment letter and certain related documents pursuant to which a syndicate of financial institutions committed to provide to the Debtors up to $8,800,000,000 in exit financing (the "Exit Financing Facility"). Following the Bankruptcy Court's approval on June 30, 2004 of the exit financing commitment, the Company paid the exit lenders a nonrefundable fee of $10,000,000 and reimbursed the exit lenders for certain expenses they had incurred through the date of such approval, including certain legal expenses. In light of the agreements with TW NY and Comcast, on April 25, 2005, the Company informed the exit lenders of its election to terminate the exit financing commitment, which termination became effective on May 9, 2005. As a result of the termination, the Company recorded a charge of $58,267,000 during 2005, which represents previously unpaid commitment fees of $45,428,000, the nonrefundable fee of $10,000,000 and certain other
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
expenses. Such charge is reflected in interest expense in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2004, $39,267,000 of such fees and expenses were included in other noncurrent assets, net.
 
Going Concern
 
As a result of the Company's filing of the bankruptcy petition and the other matters described in the following paragraphs, there is substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes continuity of operations and realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business, and in accordance with Statement of The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be required should the Company be unable to continue to operate as a going concern. In accordance with all pre-petition liabilities subject to compromise have been segregated in the consolidated balance sheets and classified as liabilities subject to compromise, at the estimated amount of allowable claims. Interest expense related to pre-petition liabilities subject to compromise has been reported only to the extent that it will be paid during the Chapter 11 proceedings. In addition, no preferred stock dividends have been accrued subsequent to the Petition Date. Liabilities not subject to compromise are separately classified as current or noncurrent. Revenue, expenses, realized gains and losses, and provisions for losses resulting from reorganization are reported separately as reorganization expenses due to bankruptcy. Cash used for reorganization items is disclosed in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Position 90-7,
Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code
("SOP 90-7").
SOP 90-7,
 
The ability of the Debtors to continue as a going concern is predicated upon numerous matters, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
 
Presentation
 
For periods subsequent to the Petition Date, the Company has applied the provisions of requires that pre-petition liabilities that are subject to compromise be segregated in the consolidated balance sheets as liabilities subject to compromise and that revenue, expenses, realized gains and losses, and provisions for losses resulting directly from the reorganization due to the bankruptcy be reported separately as reorganization expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. Liabilities subject to compromise are reported at the amounts expected to be allowed, even if they may be settled for lesser amounts. Liabilities subject to compromise consist of the following (amounts in thousands):
SOP 90-7.
SOP 90-7
 
 
The Rigas Entities are jointly and severally obligated with certain of the Debtors to the lenders with respect to borrowings under certain facilities Facilities"). Borrowings under the Facilities have been presented as liabilities subject to compromise in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as collection of such borrowings from the Debtors is stayed. Collection of such borrowings from the Rigas Entities has not been stayed and actions may be taken to collect such borrowings from the Rigas Entities. However, the Rigas Entities would not have sufficient assets to satisfy claims for all liabilities under the Facilities.
Co-Borrowing
co-borrowing
("Co-Borrowing
Co-Borrowing
Co-Borrowing
Co-Borrowing
Co-Borrowing
Co-Borrowing
 
Following is a reconciliation of the changes in liabilities subject to compromise for the period from January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
The amounts presented as liabilities subject to compromise may be subject to future adjustments depending on Bankruptcy Court actions, completion of the reconciliation process with respect to disputed claims, determinations of the secured status of certain claims, the value of any collateral securing such claims or other events. Such adjustments may be material to the amounts reported as liabilities subject to compromise.
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Amortization of deferred financing fees related to pre-petition debt obligations was terminated effective on the Petition Date and the unamortized amount at the Petition Date ($134,208,000) has been included as an offset to liabilities subject to compromise as an adjustment of the net carrying value of the related debt. Similarly, amortization of the deferred issuance costs for the Company's redeemable preferred stock was also terminated at the Petition Date. For periods subsequent to the Petition Date, interest expense has been reported only to the extent that it will be paid during the Chapter 11 proceedings. In addition, no preferred stock dividends have been accrued subsequent to the Petition Date.
pre-petition
 
Reorganization Expenses Due to Bankruptcy and Investigation, Re-Audit and Sale Transaction Costs
 
Only those fees directly related to the Chapter 11 filings are included in reorganization expenses due to bankruptcy. These expenses are offset by the interest earned during reorganization. Certain reorganization expenses are contingent upon the approval of a plan of reorganization by the Bankruptcy Court and include cure costs, financing fees and success fees. The Company is currently aware of certain success fees that potentially could be paid upon the Company's emergence from bankruptcy to third party financial advisors retained by the Company and the Committees in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases. Currently, these success fees are estimated to be between $6,500,000 and $19,950,000 in the aggregate. In addition, pursuant to their employment agreements, the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and the Chief Operating Officer ("COO") of the Company are eligible to receive equity awards of Adelphia stock with a minimum aggregate fair value of $17,000,000 upon the Debtors' emergence from bankruptcy. Under the employment agreements, the value of such equity awards will be determined based on the average trading price of the post-emergence common stock of Adelphia during the 15 trading days immediately preceding the 90th day following the date of emergence. Pursuant to the employment agreements, these equity awards, which will be subject to vesting and trading restrictions, may be increased up to a maximum aggregate value of $25,500,000 at the discretion of the board of directors of Adelphia (the "Board"). As no plan of reorganization has been confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, no accrual for such contingent payments or equity awards has been recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. See Note 16 for additional information. The following table sets forth certain components of reorganization expenses for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
In addition to the costs shown above, the Company has incurred certain professional fees and other costs that, although not directly related to the Chapter 11 filing, relate to the investigation of the actions of certain members of the Rigas Family management, related efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations and the Sale Transaction. These expenses include the additional audit fees incurred for the years ended December 31, 2001 and prior, as well as legal fees, forensic consultant fees, legal defense costs paid on behalf of the Rigas Family and employee retention costs. These expenses have been included in investigation, re-audit and sale transaction costs in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Condensed Financial Statements of Debtors
 
The Debtors' condensed consolidated balance sheets as of the indicated dates are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
The Debtors' condensed consolidated statements of operations for the indicated periods are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Following is condensed consolidated cash flow data for the Debtors for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Bankruptcy
 
As a result of the Debtors' Chapter 11 filings, these consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with For additional information, see Note 2.
SOP 90-7.
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Cash Equivalents
 
Cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds and United States Government obligations with maturities of three months or less when purchased. The carrying amounts of cash equivalents approximate their fair values.
 
Restricted Cash
 
Details of restricted cash are presented below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
Accounts Receivable
 
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. Accounts receivable are reflected net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. Such allowance was $15,912,000 and $37,954,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts is established through a charge to direct operating and programming costs and expenses. The Company assesses the adequacy of this reserve periodically, evaluating general factors such as the length of time individual receivables are past due, historical collection experience, and the economic and competitive environment.
 
Investments
 
All publicly traded marketable securities held by the Company are classified as securities and are recorded at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value between measurement dates for securities are recorded net of taxes as a component of other comprehensive income (loss). Unrealized losses that are deemed to be are recognized currently. Investments in privately held entities in which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant influence over their operating and financial policies are accounted for at cost, subject to impairment. The Company's securities and cost investments are included in other noncurrent assets, net in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
available-for-sale
available-for-sale
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
available-for-sale
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Investments in entities in which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the investee are accounted for under the equity method. Equity method investments are recorded at original cost, subject to impairment, and adjusted quarterly to recognize the Company's proportionate share of the investees' net income or loss after the date of investment, additional contributions or advances made, and dividends received. The equity method of accounting is suspended when the Company no longer has significant influence, for example, during the period that investees are undergoing corporate reorganization or bankruptcy proceedings. The Company's share of losses is generally limited to the extent of the Company's investment unless the Company is committed to provide further financial support to the investee. The excess of the Company's investment over its share of the net assets of each of the Company's investees has been attributed to the franchise rights and customer relationship intangibles of the investee. Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, ("SFAS No. 142"), the Company does not amortize the excess basis to the extent it has been attributed to goodwill and franchise rights. As discussed below under the Company has determined that franchise rights have an indefinite life, and therefore are not subject to amortization.
other-than-temporary
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
"Intangible Assets,"
 
Changes in the Company's proportionate share of the underlying equity of an equity method investee, which result from the issuance of additional equity securities of the equity investee, are reflected as increases or decreases to the Company's additional paid-in capital.
 
On a quarterly basis, the Company reviews its investments to determine whether a decline in fair value below the cost basis is The Company considers a number of factors in its determination including: (i) the financial condition, operating performance and near term prospects of the investee; (ii) the reason for the decline in fair value, be it general market, industry specific or investee specific conditions; (iii) the length of time that the fair value of the investment is below the Company's carrying value; and (iv) changes in value subsequent to the balance sheet date. If the decline in estimated fair value is deemed to be a new cost basis is established at the then estimated fair value. In situations where the fair value of an investment is not evident due to a lack of public market price or other factors, the Company uses its best estimates and assumptions to arrive at the estimated fair value of such an investment. The Company's assessment of the foregoing factors involves a high degree of judgment, and the use of significant estimates and assumptions.
other-than-temporary.
other-than-temporary,
 
Derivative and Other Financial Instruments
 
SFAS No. 133, as amended ("SFAS No. 133"), requires that all derivative instruments be recognized in the balance sheet at fair value. In addition, SFAS No. 133 provides that for derivative instruments that qualify for hedge accounting, changes in fair value will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in stockholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings, depending on whether the derivative hedges changes in fair value or cash flows. The ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,
 
The Company has entered into interest rate exchange agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements with the objective of managing its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. However, the Company has not designated these agreements as hedging instruments pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of these agreements were recognized currently and included in other income (expense), net through the Petition Date. Changes in the fair value of these agreements subsequent to the Petition Date have not been recognized, as the amount to be received or paid in connection with these agreements will be determined by the Bankruptcy Court. For additional information, see Note 10.
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Business Combinations
 
The Company accounts for business combinations using the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations of an acquired business are included in the Company's consolidated results from the date of the acquisition. The cost to acquire companies, including transaction costs, is allocated to the underlying net assets of the acquired company based on their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The value assigned to the Class A Common Stock, issued by Adelphia as consideration for acquisitions is generally based on the average market price for a period of a few days before and after the date that the respective terms are agreed to and announced. The application of purchase accounting requires a high degree of judgment and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions.
 
Property and Equipment
 
The details of property and equipment and the related accumulated depreciation are set forth below for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Property and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. In accordance with SFAS No. 51, ("SFAS No. 51"), the Company capitalizes costs associated with the construction of new cable transmission and distribution facilities and the installation of new cable services. Capitalized construction costs include materials, labor, applicable indirect costs and interest. Capitalized installation costs include labor, material and overhead costs related to: (i) the initial connection (or "drop") from the Company's cable plant to a customer location; (ii) the replacement of a drop; and (iii) the installation of equipment for additional services, such as digital cable or high-speed Internet ("HSI"). The costs of other customer-facing activities, such as reconnecting customer locations where a drop already exists, disconnecting customer locations and repairing or maintaining drops, are expensed as incurred. The Company's methodology for capitalization of internal construction labor and internal and contracted third party installation costs (including materials) utilizes standard costing models based on actual costs. Materials and external labor costs associated with construction activities are capitalized based on amounts invoiced to the Company by third parties.
Financial Reporting by Cable Television Companies
 
The Company captures data from its billing, customer care and engineering records to determine the number of occurrences for each capitalizable activity, applies the appropriate standard and capitalizes the result on a monthly basis. Periodically, the Company reviews and adjusts, if necessary, the amount of costs capitalized utilizing the methodology described above, based on comparisons to actual costs incurred. Significant judgment is involved in the development of costing models and in the determination of the nature and amount of indirect costs to be capitalized.
 
Improvements that extend asset lives are capitalized and other repairs and maintenance expenditures are expensed as incurred.
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Subject to the change noted below for set-top boxes, depreciation is computed on the straight-line method using the following useful lives:
 
 
The Company periodically evaluates the useful lives of its property and equipment. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company changed the useful life used to calculate the depreciation of standard definition digital set-top boxes from five years to four years due to the introduction of advanced digital set-top boxes which provide high definition television ("HDTV") and digital video recording capabilities, and the expected migration of new and existing customers to these advanced digital set-top boxes. In addition, consumer electronics manufacturers continue to include advanced technology necessary to receive digital and HDTV signals within television sets, which the Company expects to further contribute to the reduction in the useful life of its set-top boxes. The impact of this change in useful life on the Company's operating results for the year ended December 31, 2004 was an $111,849,000 increase to the Company's net loss and a $0.44 increase to the Company's net loss per common share.
 
The useful lives used to depreciate cable plant that is undergoing rebuilds are adjusted such that property and equipment to be retired will be fully depreciated by the time the rebuild is completed. In addition, the useful lives assigned to property and equipment of acquired companies are based on the expected remaining useful lives of such acquired property and equipment. Upon the sale of cable systems, the related cost and accumulated depreciation is removed from the respective accounts and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in earnings.
 
Intangible Assets
 
Franchise rights represent the value attributed to agreements with local authorities that allow access to homes in cable service areas acquired in connection with a business combination. Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, the Company does not amortize acquired franchise rights as the Company has determined that such rights have an indefinite life. Costs to extend and maintain the Company's franchise rights are expensed as incurred.
 
Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, the Company does not amortize goodwill.
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Following is a reconciliation of the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Customer relationships represent the value attributed to customer relationships acquired in business combinations and are amortized over a period. Beginning in 2004, the Company began amortizing its customer relationships using the double declining balance method. The application of the new amortization method to customer relationships acquired prior to 2004 resulted in an additional charge of $262,847,000 which has been reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The proforma amounts shown in the consolidated statements of operations have been adjusted for the effect of retroactive application on amortization, changes in impairment of long-lived assets and minority's interest in loss of subsidiary which would have been made had the new method been in effect. Amortization of customer relationships and other aggregated $117,305,000, $145,357,000 and $157,019,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Based solely on the Company's current amortizable intangible assets, the Company expects that amortization expense of amortizable intangible assets will be approximately $107,000,000, $104,000,000, $101,000,000, $83,000,000 and $34,000,000 during 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. The details of customer relationships and other are set forth below for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
10-year
 
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
 
Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, ("SFAS No. 144"), the Company evaluates property and equipment and amortizable intangible assets for impairment whenever current events and circumstances indicate the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount is greater than the expected future undiscounted cash flows to be generated, the Company recognizes an impairment loss equal to the excess, if any, of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset. The Company generally measures fair value based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows of an asset group over its remaining useful life. The Company utilizes an independent third party valuation firm to assist in the determination of fair value for the cable assets. With respect to long-lived assets associated with cable systems, the Company groups systems at a level which represents the lowest level of cash flows that are largely independent of other assets and liabilities. The
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Company's asset groups under this methodology consist of seven major metropolitan markets and numerous other asset groups in the Company's geographically dispersed operations.
 
Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, the Company evaluates its goodwill and franchise rights for impairment, at least annually on July 1, and whenever other facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of goodwill and franchise rights may not be recoverable. The Company evaluates the recoverability of the carrying amount of goodwill at its operating regions. These operating regions make up the Company's cable operating segment determined pursuant to SFAS No. 131, , as further discussed in Note 15. For purposes of this evaluation, the Company compares the fair value of the assets of each of the Company's operating regions to their respective carrying amounts. The Company estimates the fair value of its goodwill and franchise rights primarily based on discounted cash flows, current market transactions and industry trends. If the carrying value of an operating region were to exceed its fair value, the Company would then compare the implied fair value of the operating region's goodwill to its carrying amount, and any excess of the carrying amount over the fair value would be charged to operations as an impairment loss. The fair value of goodwill represents the excess of the operating region's fair value over the fair value of its identifiable net assets. The Company evaluates the recoverability of the carrying amount of its franchise rights based on the same asset groupings used to evaluate its long-lived assets under SFAS No. 144 because the franchise rights are inseparable from the other assets in the asset group. These groupings are consistent with the guidance in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue Any excess of the carrying value over the fair value for franchise rights is charged to operations as an impairment loss.
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information
No. 02-7,
Unit of Measure for Testing Impairment of Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets.
 
The evaluation of long-lived assets for impairment requires a high degree of judgment and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. For additional information, see Note 9.
 
Internal-Use Software
 
The Company capitalizes certain direct development costs associated with internal-use software, including external direct costs of material and services, and payroll and related benefit costs for employees devoting time to the software projects. Such costs are amortized over an estimated useful life of three years, beginning when the assets are substantially ready for use. Amounts capitalized for internal-use software were $24,054,000, $22,502,000 and $14,882,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Amortization of internal-use software costs was $23,959,000, $14,325,000 and $5,820,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The net book value of internal-use software at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $42,460,000 and $42,059,000, respectively. Internal-use software costs are included in other noncurrent assets, net in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
Deferred Financing Fees
 
In general, costs associated with the issuance and refinancing of debt are deferred and amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the term of the related debt agreement. However, in the case of deferred financing costs related to pre-petition debt obligations, amortization was terminated effective on the Petition Date and the unamortized amount at the Petition Date ($134,208,000) is included as an offset to liabilities subject to compromise at the Petition Date and at December 31, 2005 and 2004 as an adjustment of the net carrying value of the related pre-petition debt. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, deferred financing fees of $7,656,000 and $46,589,000, respectively, are included in other noncurrent assets, net in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Minority's Interest
 
Recognition of minority's interest share of losses of consolidated subsidiaries was limited to the amount of such minority's allocable share of the common equity of those consolidated subsidiaries.
 
Foreign Currency Translation
 
Assets and liabilities of the Company's cable operations in Brazil, where the functional currency is the local currency, are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate as of the balance sheet date, and the related translation adjustments are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income (loss). Revenue and expenses are translated using average exchange rates prevailing during the period.
 
Transactions with the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities
 
As discussed in Note 5, effective January 1, 2004, the Company began consolidating the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities. In addition to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, the Company had significant involvement, directly or indirectly, with the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities prior to the Petition Date. The following is a discussion of the Company's significant accounting policies related to transactions with the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities. On April 25, 2005, Adelphia and the Rigas Family entered into an agreement to settle Adelphia's lawsuit against the Rigas Family. For additional information, see Note 16.
 
The Company continues to fund the cash needs for the payment of interest on co-borrowing debt for the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities. Generally, amounts funded to or on behalf of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities were recorded by the Company as advances to those entities. Effective January 1, 2004, advances to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities are eliminated in consolidation. Advances to the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities are included as amounts due from the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities, net in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004. No amounts have been funded on behalf of the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities since 2002.
 
Amounts due from the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities, net was presented as an addition to stockholders' deficit in the accompanying December 31, 2004 consolidated balance sheet because: (i) approximately half of the advances were used by those entities to acquire Adelphia securities; (ii) these advances occurred frequently; (iii) there were no definitive debt instruments that specified repayment terms or interest rates; and (iv) there was no demonstrated repayment history.
 
Prior to the Forfeiture Order, where a contractual agreement or similar arrangement existed for management services to the Managed Cable Entities, the fees charged were based on the contractually specified terms. Such management agreements generally provided for a management fee based on a percentage of revenue plus reimbursements for expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the Managed Cable Entities. In the absence of such agreements and following the Forfeiture Order, the fees charged by the Company to the Managed Cable Entities are based on the actual costs incurred by the Company. Such charges are generally based on the Managed Cable Entities' share of revenue or subscribers, as appropriate. Management believes that the amounts charged to the Managed Cable Entities and reflected in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations with respect to management fees are reasonable. Amounts charged subsequent to January 1, 2004 have been eliminated in consolidation. All other transactions prior to January 1, 2004 between the Company and the Rigas Family Entities have been reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements based on the actual cost of the related goods or services.
 
The Company followed the principles outlined in SFAS No. 114, , and SFAS No. 118,
Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan
Accounting by Creditors for Impairments of a LoanIncome Recognition and
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
, to determine impairment of advances to the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities prior to the Forfeiture Order and to establish its policies related to both the determination of impairment of advances to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities and the recognition of interest due from them for periods prior to January 1, 2004. The Company evaluated impairment of amounts due from the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities quarterly and whenever other facts and circumstances indicated the carrying value may have been impaired, on an basis, which considers the legal structure of each entity to which advances were made. The Company was unable to evaluate impairment based on the present value of expected future cash flows from repayment because the advances generally did not have supporting loan documents, interest rates, repayment terms or history of repayment. The Company considered such advances as collateral-backed loans and measured the expected repayments based on the estimated fair value of the underlying assets of each respective entity at the balance sheet dates. The evaluation was based on an orderly liquidation of the underlying assets and did not apply current changes in circumstances to prior periods. For example, the most significant impairment recognition occurred when the Debtors filed for bankruptcy protection in June 2002 due to the dramatic effect that the filing had on the value of the underlying assets available for repayment of the advances. No increases in underlying asset values were recognized following bankruptcy.
Disclosures
entity-by-entity
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Revenue from video and HSI service is recognized as services are provided. Credit risk is managed by disconnecting services to customers whose accounts are delinquent for a specified number of days. Consistent with SFAS No. 51, installation revenue obtained from the connection of subscribers to the cable system is recognized in the period installation services are provided to the extent of related direct selling costs. Any remaining amount is deferred and recognized over the estimated average period that customers are expected to remain connected to the cable system. Installation revenue was less than related direct selling costs for all periods presented. The Company classifies fees collected from cable subscribers for reimbursement of fees paid to local franchise authorities as a component of service revenue because the Company is the primary obligor to the local franchise authority. Revenue from advertising sales associated with the Company's media services business is recognized as the advertising is aired. Certain fees and commissions related to advertising sales are recognized as costs and expenses in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
 
Programming Launch Fees and Incentives
 
From time to time, the Company enters into binding agreements with programming networks whereby the Company is to receive cash, warrants to purchase common stock or other consideration in exchange for launch, channel placement or other considerations with respect to the carriage of programming services on the Company's cable systems. Amounts received or to be received under such arrangements are recorded as deferred revenue and amortized, generally on a straight-line basis, over the contract term, provided that it is probable that the Company will satisfy the carriage obligations and that the amounts to be received are reasonably estimable. Where it is not probable that the Company will satisfy the carriage obligations, or where the amounts to be received are not estimable, recognition is deferred until the specific carriage obligations are met and the consideration to be received is reasonably estimable. The amounts recognized under these arrangements generally are reflected as reductions of costs and expenses. However, amounts recognized with respect to payments received from shopping and other programming networks for which the Company does not pay license fees and consideration received in connection with interactive services are reflected as revenue. At the time that the Company's launch, carriage or other obligations are terminated, any remaining deferred revenue associated with such terminated obligations is recognized and included in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
Advertising Costs
 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. The Company's advertising expense was $114,673,000, $96,842,000 and $88,379,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
The Company applies the intrinsic value-based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, ("APB Opinion No. 25"), and related interpretations to account for the Company's fixed plan stock options. Under this method, compensation expense for stock options or awards that are fixed is required to be recognized over the vesting period only if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price on the date of grant. All outstanding stock options became fully vested in February 2005. SFAS No. 123, ("SFAS No. 123"), established accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans. As allowed by SFAS No. 123, the Company has elected to continue to apply the intrinsic value-based method of accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25, and has adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, and by The following table illustrates the effects on net loss and loss per common share as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based employee compensation (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts):
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Accounting for Stock-Based CompensationTransition and Disclosurean Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123
SFAS No. 123-R,
Share-Based Payment.
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
The grant-date fair values underlying the foregoing calculations are based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Adelphia has not granted stock options since 2001. With respect to stock options granted by Adelphia in 2001, the key assumptions used in the model for purpose of these calculations were as follows:
 
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company accounts for its income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under the asset and liability method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. In addition, deferred tax assets are also recorded with respect to net operating loss and other tax attribute carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Valuation allowances are established when realization of the benefit of deferred tax assets is not deemed to be more likely than not. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
 
Earnings (Loss) per Common Share ("EPS")
 
The Company uses the two-class method for computing basic and diluted EPS. Basic and diluted EPS for the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock was computed by allocating the income applicable to common stockholders to Class A common stockholders and Class B common stockholders as if all of the earnings for the period had been distributed. This allocation, and the calculation of the basic and diluted net income (loss) applicable to Class A common stockholders and Class B common stockholders, do not reflect any adjustment for interest on the convertible subordinated notes and do not reflect any declared or accumulated dividends on the convertible preferred stock, as neither has been recognized since the Petition Date. For the year ended December 31, 2005, income applicable to common stockholders for computing basic EPS of $30,860,000 and $3,220,000 has been allocated to the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, respectively, and income applicable to common stockholders for computing diluted EPS of $30,514,000 and $3,566,000 has been allocated to the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, respectively. Under the two-class method for computing basic and diluted EPS, losses have not been allocated to each class of common stock, as security holders are not obligated to fund such losses.
 
Diluted EPS of Class A and Class B Common Stock considers the potential impact of dilutive securities. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 144,992 of potential common shares subject to stock options have been excluded from the diluted EPS calculation as the option exercise price is greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Stock. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, the inclusion of potential common shares would have had an anti-dilutive effect. Accordingly, potential common shares of 87,072,964 and 87,082,474 have been excluded from the diluted EPS calculations in 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
The potential common shares at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 consist of Adelphia's 5/% Series D Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series D Preferred Stock"), 7/% Series E Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series E Preferred Stock"), 7/% Series F Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series F Preferred Stock"), 6% subordinated convertible notes, 3.25% subordinated convertible notes and stock options. As a result of the filing of the Debtors' Chapter 11 Cases, Adelphia, as of the Petition Date, discontinued accruing dividends on all of its outstanding preferred stock and has excluded those dividends from the diluted EPS calculations. The debt
1
2
1
2
1
2
 
 
 
 
Note 3:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
 
instruments are convertible into shares of Class A and Class B Common Stock. The preferred securities and stock options are convertible into Class A Common Stock. The basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding used for EPS computations for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Significant estimates are involved in the determination of: (i) asset impairments; (ii) the recorded provisions for contingent liabilities; (iii) the carrying amounts of liabilities subject to compromise; (iv) estimated useful lives of tangible and intangible assets; (v) internal costs capitalized in connection with construction and installation activities; (vi) the recorded amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities; (vii) the allowances provided for uncollectible amounts with respect to the amounts due from the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities and accounts receivable; (viii) the allocation of the purchase price in business combinations; and (ix) the fair value of derivative financial instruments. Actual amounts, particularly with respect to matters impacted by proceedings under Chapter 11, could vary significantly from such estimates.
 
 
In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, ("FIN 47"), which addresses the financial accounting and reporting obligations associated with the conditional retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. FIN 47 requires that, when the obligation to perform an asset retirement activity is unconditional, and the timing the method of settlement of the obligation is conditional on a future event, companies must recognize a liability for the fair value of the conditional asset retirement if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The requirements of FIN 47 are effective for fiscal periods ending after December 15, 2005.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143
and/or
 
 
 
 
Note 4:  Recent Accounting Pronouncements (Continued)
 
The Company has certain equipment, the disposal of which may be subject to environmental regulations. The Company's asset retirement obligations associated with environmental regulations for the disposition of its equipment are not material. The Company also owns certain buildings containing asbestos whereby the Company is legally obligated to remediate the asbestos under certain circumstances, such as if the buildings undergo renovations or are demolished. The Company does not have sufficient information to estimate the fair value of its asset retirement obligation for asbestos remediation because the range of time over which the Company may settle the obligation is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated.
 
In June 2005, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue provides guidance in assessing when a general partner controls and consolidates its investment in a limited partnership or similar entity. The general partner is assumed to control the limited partnership unless the limited partners have substantive kick-out or participating rights. The provisions of were required to be applied beginning June 30, 2005 for partnerships formed or modified subsequent to June 30, 2005, and are effective for general partners in all other limited partnerships beginning January 1, 2006. had no impact on the Company's financial position or results of operation for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of in 2006.
No. 04-5,
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
("EITF 04-5").
EITF 04-5
EITF 04-5
EITF 04-5
EITF 04-5
 
 
requires variable interest entities, as defined by to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary if certain criteria are met. The Company concluded that the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities are variable interest entities for which the Company is the primary beneficiary, as contemplated by Accordingly, effective January 1, 2004, the Company began consolidating the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities on a prospective basis. The assets and liabilities of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements at the Rigas Family's historical cost because these entities first became variable interest entities and Adelphia became the primary beneficiary when Adelphia and these entities were under the common control of the Rigas Family. As a result of the adoption of the Company recorded a $588,782,000 charge as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle as of January 1, 2004. The Company is reporting the operating results of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities in the "cable" segment. See Note 15 for further discussion of the Company's business segments.
FIN 46-R
FIN 46-R,
FIN 46-R.
FIN 46-R,
 
The April 2005 agreements entered into by the District Court in the SEC civil enforcement action (the "SEC Civil Action"), including: (i) the Non-Prosecution Agreement; (ii) the Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement (defined in Note 16); (iii) the Government-Rigas Settlement Agreement (also defined in Note 16); and (iv) the final judgment as to Adelphia (collectively, the "Government Settlement Agreements"), provide, among other things, for the forfeiture of certain assets by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities. Pursuant to the Forfeiture Order, all right, title and interest of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities in the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail), certain specified real estate and any securities of the Company were forfeited to the United States on or about June 8, 2005 and such assets and securities are expected to be conveyed to the Company (subject to completion of forfeiture proceedings before a federal judge to determine if there are any superior claims) in furtherance of the Non-Prosecution Agreement. See Note 16 for additional information.
 
As of June 8, 2005, the Company was no longer the primary beneficiary of Coudersport and Bucktail. Accordingly, the Company ceased to consolidate Coudersport and Bucktail under and recorded a net charge of $12,964,000 in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. Such charge is included as a component of the net benefit from the settlement with the Rigas Family (see Note 6).
FIN 46-R
 
 
 
 
Note 5:  Variable Interest Entities (Continued)
 
In addition to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, the Rigas Family owned, prior to forfeiture to the United States on June 8, 2005, at least 16 additional entities in which the Company held a variable interest. The Company did not apply the provisions of to the Other Rigas Entities because the Company did not have sufficient financial information to perform the required evaluations. As a result of the Government Settlement Agreements, as of June 8, 2005, the Company no longer held a variable interest in these entities.
FIN 46-R
 
In addition to the Rigas Family Entities, the Company performed an evaluation under of other entities in which the Company has a financial interest. The Company concluded that no further adjustments to its consolidated financial statements were required as a result of these evaluations and the adoption of
FIN 46-R
FIN 46-R.
 
The consolidation of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities resulted in the following impact to the Company's consolidated financial statements for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
In addition to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities discussed in Note 5, prior to May 2002, the Company had significant involvement, directly or indirectly, with the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities. The following table shows the amounts due from the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities, net of the allowance for uncollectible amounts, at December 31, 2004 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
For purposes of assessing collectibility, the Company considered the amounts due from the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities to be collateral-backed loans and used the estimated values of the underlying debt and equity securities of Adelphia, which were forfeited to the United States on or about June 8, 2005, to determine expected repayments. Amounts due from the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities, net was presented as an addition to stockholders' deficit in the accompanying December 31, 2004 consolidated balance sheet because: (i) approximately half of the advances were used by those entities to acquire Adelphia securities; (ii) these advances occurred
 
 
 
 
Note 6:  Transactions with the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities (Continued)
 
frequently; (iii) there were no definitive debt instruments that specified repayment terms or interest rates; and (iv) there was no demonstrated repayment history.
 
In connection with the Government Settlement Agreements, all amounts owed between Adelphia (including the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities) and the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities will not be collected or paid. As a result, in June 2005, the Company derecognized a $460,256,000 payable by the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities to the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities. This liability, which was recorded by the Company in connection with the January 1, 2004 consolidation of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, had no legal right of set-off against amounts due to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities from the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities.
 
Also, in connection with the Government Settlement Agreements, equity ownership of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail), debt and equity securities of the Company, and certain real estate were forfeited by the Rigas Family and the Rigas Family Entities and are expected to be conveyed to the Company (subject to completion of forfeiture proceedings before a federal judge to determine if there are any superior claims). In conjunction with the Forfeiture Order, the Company recorded the debt and equity securities and real estate at their fair value of $34,629,000. Additional impairment of $24,600,000 was recognized by the Company following the June 2005 forfeiture due to further decline in the fair value of the securities. Such impairment is included in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. The adjusted fair value of the debt and equity securities and real estate of $10,029,000 has been reflected as a current asset in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. The Company has concluded that the equity interests it expects to receive in the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities have nominal value as the liabilities of these entities significantly exceed the fair value of their assets. As discussed in Note 5, the assets and liabilities of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since January 1, 2004.
 
The Government Settlement Agreements also required the Company to pay the Rigas Family an additional $11,500,000 for legal defense costs, which was paid by the Company in June 2005. The Government Settlement Agreements release the Company from further obligation to provide funding for legal defense costs for the Rigas Family.
 
During 2004 and 2003, various stipulations and orders were approved by the Bankruptcy Court that caused the Managed Cable Entities to pay approximately $28,000,000 of legal defense costs on behalf of certain members of the Rigas Family. During the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, $17,000,000 and $11,000,000, respectively, of such defense costs have been included in investigation, re-audit and sale transaction costs in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had accrued $2,717,000 of severance for John J. Rigas pursuant to the terms of a May 23, 2002 agreement with John J. Rigas, Timothy J. Rigas, James P. Rigas and Michael J. Rigas. The Government Settlement Agreements release the Company from this severance obligation. Accordingly, the Company derecognized the severance accrual and recognized the benefit of $2,717,000 in June 2005.
 
 
 
 
Note 6:  Transactions with the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities (Continued)
 
The Company recognized a net benefit from the settlement with the Rigas Family in June 2005 and has included such benefit in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
Impact of Transactions with the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities on Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
Transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2004 between the Company and the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities are eliminated in consolidation. The effects of various transactions between the Company and the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities on certain line items included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2003 are summarized below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 6:  Transactions with the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities (Continued)
 
By order dated October 20, 2003, the Debtors rejected the Praxis partnership agreement under applicable bankruptcy law. Rejection may give rise to pre-bankruptcy unsecured damage claims that are included in liabilities subject to compromise at the amounts expected to be allowed. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had accrued $1,300,000 in management fees due under the Praxis partnership agreement as a liability subject to compromise for the periods prior to rejection of the partnership agreement.
 
Other Transactions with the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities
 
  The Company performs all of the cash management functions for the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities. As such, positive cash flows of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities are generally deposited into the Company's cash accounts. Negative cash flows, which include the payment of interest on co-borrowing debt for the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, are generally deducted from the Company's cash accounts. In addition, the personnel of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities are employees of the Company, and all of the cash operating expenses and capital expenditures of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities are paid by the Company on behalf of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities. Charges to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities for such expenditures are determined by reference to the terms of the applicable third party invoices or vendor agreements. Although this activity affects the amounts due from the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, prior to the consolidation of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, the Company did not include any of these charges as related party transactions to be separately reported in its consolidated statements of operations. Effective January 1, 2004, such amounts are included in the Company's consolidated statements of operations. The most significant of these expenditures incurred by the Company on behalf of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities during 2003 include third party programming charges, employee related charges and third party billing service charges which are shown in the following table (amounts in thousands):
Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities.
 
 
  In connection with the December 13, 2001 settlement of a dispute, Adelphia, Century, Century/ML Cable, ML Media and Highland, entered into a Leveraged Recapitalization Agreement (the "Recap Agreement") pursuant to which Century/ML Cable agreed to redeem ML Media's 50% interest in Century/ML Cable (the "Redemption") on or before September 30, 2002 for a purchase price between $275,000,000 and $279,800,000, depending on the timing of the Redemption, plus interest. Among other things, the Recap Agreement provided that: (i) Highland would arrange debt financing for the Redemption; (ii) Highland, Adelphia and Century would jointly and severally guarantee debt service on debt financing for the Redemption on and after the closing of the Redemption; and (iii) Highland and Century would own 60% and 40% interests, respectively, in the recapitalized Century/ML Cable. Under the terms of the Recap Agreement, Century's 50% interest in Century/ML Cable was pledged to ML Media as collateral for Adelphia's obligations. On or about December 18, 2001, Adelphia placed $10,000,000 on deposit on behalf of Highland as earnest funds for the transaction. During June of 2002, ML Media withdrew the $10,000,000 from escrow following the Bankruptcy Court's approval of the release of these funds to ML Media. Simultaneously with the execution of the Recap Agreement, ML Media, Adelphia and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a stipulation of settlement, pursuant to which certain litigation between them was stayed pending the Redemption. By order dated September 17, 2003, Adelphia and Century rejected the Recap Agreement under applicable bankruptcy law. Adelphia has not accrued any liability for damage claims related to the rejection of the Recap Agreement. Adelphia and Century/ML Cable have challenged the Recap Agreement and the Redemption as unenforceable on fraudulent transfer and other grounds, and Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML and ML Media are engaged in litigation regarding the enforceability of the Recap Agreement. In this regard, ML Media filed an amended complaint against Adelphia on July 3, 2002 in the Bankruptcy Court. On April 15,
Century/ML Cable.
 
 
 
 
Note 6:  Transactions with the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities (Continued)
 
2004, the Bankruptcy Court dismissed all counts of Adelphia's challenge of the Recap Agreement except for its allegation that ML Media aided and abetted a breach of fiduciary duties in connection with its execution. The court also allowed Century/ML Cable's action to avoid the Recap Agreement as a fraudulent conveyance to proceed.
 
On June 3, 2005, Century entered into an interest acquisition agreement with ML Media, Century/ML Cable, Century-ML Cable Corporation (a subsidiary of Century/ML Cable) and San Juan Cable (the "IAA") pursuant to which Century and ML Media agreed to sell their interests in Century/ML Cable for $520,000,000 (subject to potential purchase price adjustments as defined in the IAA) to San Juan Cable. On August 9, 2005, Century/ML Cable filed its plan of reorganization (the "Century/ML Plan") and its related disclosure statement (the "Century/ML Disclosure Statement") with the Bankruptcy Court. On August 18, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Century/ML Disclosure Statement. On September 7, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Century/ML Plan, which is designed to satisfy the conditions of the IAA with San Juan Cable and provides that all third party claims will either be paid in full or assumed by San Juan Cable under the terms set forth in the IAA. On October 31, 2005, the sale of Century/ML Cable to San Juan Cable was consummated (the "Century/ML Sale") and the Century/ML Plan became effective. Neither the Century/ML Cable Sale nor the effectiveness of the Century/ML Plan resolves the pending litigation among Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML Cable and ML Media. For additional information concerning this litigation, see Note 16. For additional information concerning the Century/ML Sale, see Note 8.
 
 
Global Settlement Agreement
 
Telcove, Inc. ("Telcove") owned, operated and managed entities that provided competitive local exchange carrier ("CLEC") telecommunications services. On January 11, 2002, the Company completed a transaction whereby all of the shares of common stock of Telcove owned by Adelphia were distributed in the form of a dividend to holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. On February 21, 2004, the Debtors and TelCove executed a global settlement agreement (the "Global Settlement") that resolved, among other things, certain claims put forth by both TelCove and Adelphia. The Global Settlement provided that, on the closing date, the Company would transfer to TelCove certain settlement consideration, including approximately $60,000,000 in cash plus an additional payment of up to $2,500,000 related to certain outstanding payables, as well as certain vehicles, real property and intellectual property licenses used in the operation of TelCove's businesses. Additionally, the parties executed various annexes to the Global Settlement (collectively, the "Annex Agreements") that provided, among other things, for: (i) a five-year business commitment to TelCove for telecommunication services by the Company; (ii) future use by TelCove of certain fiber capacity in assets owned by the Company; and (iii) the mutual release by the parties from any and all liabilities, claims and causes of action that either party had or may have had against the other party. Finally, the Global Settlement provided for the transfer by the Company to TelCove of certain CLEC systems ("CLEC Market Assets") together with the various licenses, franchises and permits related to the operation and ownership of such assets. On March 23, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Global Settlement. The Company recorded a $97,902,000 liability during the fourth quarter of 2003 to provide for the Global Settlement. The Annex Agreements became effective in accordance with their terms on April 7, 2004.
 
On April 7, 2004, the Company paid $57,941,000 to TelCove, transferred the economic risks and benefits of the CLEC Market Assets to TelCove pursuant to the terms of the Global Settlement and entered into a management agreement which provided for the management of the CLEC Market Assets from April 7, 2004 through the date of transfer to TelCove.
 
 
 
 
Note 7:  TelCove (Continued)
 
On August 20, 2004, the Company paid TelCove an additional $2,464,000 pursuant to the Global Settlement in connection with the resolution and release of certain claims. On August 21, 2004, the CLEC Market Assets were transferred to TelCove.
 
Discontinued CLEC Operations
 
As a result of the Global Settlement discussed above, the Company transferred the CLEC Market Assets together with the various licenses, franchises and permits related to the operation and ownership of such assets to TelCove. The Company has presented the CLEC Market Assets, including the cost of the Global Settlement, as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The following table presents the summarized results of operations of the CLEC Market Assets included in discontinued operations for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
The Company has various investments accounted for under the equity method. The following table includes the Company's percentage ownership interest and the carrying value of its investments and related receivables as of the indicated dates (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The Company's share of losses of its equity affiliates, including excess basis amortization and write-downs to reflect declines in value, was $588,000, $7,926,000 and $2,826,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
other-than-temporary
 
Century/ML Cable
 
Century/ML Cable owned and operated cable systems located in Puerto Rico. Century/ML Cable was a joint venture between ML Media and Century. As both Century and ML Media had substantial participatory rights in the management of Century/ML Cable, the Company used the equity method to account for its investment in Century/
 
 
 
 
Note 8:  Investments in Equity Affiliates and Related Receivables (Continued)
 
ML Cable until September 30, 2002, when Century/ML Cable filed a voluntary petition to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. This bankruptcy proceeding is administered separately from that of the Debtors. Following the Chapter 11 filing, the Company suspended the use of the equity method and began to carry its investment in Century/ML Cable at cost. The Company evaluated its investment in Century/ML Cable for an decline in fair value below the cost basis in accordance with its policy and concluded that the estimated fair value exceeded its cost basis.
other-than-temporary
 
On June 3, 2005, Century entered into the IAA, pursuant to which Century and ML Media agreed to sell their interests in Century/ML Cable for $520,000,000 (subject to potential purchase price adjustments as defined in the IAA) to San Juan Cable. On August 9, 2005, Century/ML Cable filed the Century/ML Plan and the related Century/ML Disclosure Statement with the Bankruptcy Court. On August 18, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Century/ML Disclosure Statement. On September 7, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Century/ML Plan, which is designed to satisfy the conditions of the IAA with San Juan Cable and provides that all third party claims will either be paid in full or assumed by San Juan Cable under the terms set forth in the IAA. On October 31, 2005, the Century/ML Sale was consummated and the Century/ML Plan became effective.
 
The preliminary purchase price paid by San Juan Cable in connection with the Century/ML Sale was approximately $519,000,000 plus a working capital adjustment of $82,735,000. The purchase price is subject to certain adjustments, including a review of the working capital adjustment, the Operating Cash Flow (as defined in the IAA) for the twelve months prior to the Century/ML Sale and the number of basic subscribers. In connection with the Century/ML Sale, $25,000,000 of the purchase price was deposited into an indemnity escrow account to indemnify San Juan Cable against any misrepresentation or breach of warranty, covenant or agreement by Century/ML Cable and $13,500,000 of the purchase price was deferred and is subject to offset to the extent of any additional tax liabilities owed by Century/ML Cable for periods prior to the Century/ML Sale. In addition, $35,626,000 of the purchase price was deposited into an account jointly held in the name of Century and ML Media to fund the obligations of Century/ML Cable that were not assumed by San Juan Cable (the "Century/ML Cable Account"). Century and ML Media have each received proceeds of $263,770,000 from the Century/ML Sale that were placed in escrow for the benefit of each party pending the resolution of the litigation among Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML Cable and ML Media. Subsequent to the closing of the Century/ML Sale, Century and ML Media each received $5,000,000 of proceeds from the Century/ML Cable Account which were placed in their respective escrow accounts. ML Media may elect to receive a distribution of up to $70,000,000 from the proceeds of the Century/ML Sale. In the event that ML Media elects to receive a distribution, Century is entitled to receive a distribution of the same amount from its escrow. As of December 31, 2005, ML Media and Century had each received a distribution of $10,000,000 from their respective escrow accounts. The Company recognized a gain of $47,234,000 on the Century/ML Sale. Such gain is included in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
On January 14, 2006, Century and ML Media submitted an adjustment certificate to San Juan Cable seeking additional proceeds of $4,321,000. On February 13, 2006, Century and ML Media received a notice from San Juan Cable rejecting the adjustment certificate and requesting additional proceeds of $50,000,000 from Century and ML Media. The parties are in discussions regarding the various proposed adjustments. The Company does not believe that the resolution of this matter will have a material impact to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
 
The Company provided management, programming and record keeping services to Century/ML Cable through October 31, 2005. In connection with the December 2001 execution of the Recap Agreement among Century/ML Cable, ML Media and one of the Rigas Family Entities, the parties agreed to increase the management fees from 5% to 10% of Century/ML Cable's revenue plus reimbursable expenses. In June 2003, the management fees charged to Century/ML Cable were reduced to 5% of Century/ML Cable's revenue plus reimbursable expenses
 
 
 
 
Note 8:  Investments in Equity Affiliates and Related Receivables (Continued)
 
in connection with the Debtors' rejection of the Recap Agreement. The Company has provided reserves against any management fees charged in excess of 5%. After deducting reserves, the net Century/ML Cable management fees included as a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company's accompanying statements of operations were $3,687,000, $4,200,000 and $4,053,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. At December 31, 2004, the Company had a $23,442,000 receivable from Century/ML Cable for management fees, programming costs and other amounts paid on behalf of Century/ML Cable which was included with the Company's investment in Century/ML Cable in the foregoing table.
 
As further described in Note 16, ML Media and Adelphia are engaged in litigation regarding the Recap Agreement and other matters. Neither the Century/ML Sale nor the effectiveness of the Century/ML Plan resolves the pending litigation among Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML Cable and ML Media.
 
 
A summary of impairment charges for long-lived assets is set forth below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
(a)  Property and Equipment
 
In light of the declining values associated with cable systems in Brazil, as evidenced by the sale of other Brazilian cable entities during 2003, the Company performed an evaluation of its Brazilian cable operations during 2003. As a result of this evaluation, the Company recorded an impairment charge to write-down the assets of this operation to their estimated fair market value.
 
(b)  Intangible AssetsFranchise Rights
 
Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, the Company, as a result of its annual impairment test, recorded additional impairments of $23,063,000, $83,349,000 and $641,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to franchise rights. These impairments were primarily driven by subscriber losses. No events occurred during 2005, 2004 or 2003 that would require additional impairment tests to be performed.
 
 
 
 
 
The carrying value of the Company's debt is summarized below for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
DUE TO THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CHAPTER 11 PROCEEDINGS AND THE COMPANY'S FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CERTAIN FINANCIAL COVENANTS, THE COMPANY IS IN DEFAULT ON SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF ITS PRE-PETITION DEBT OBLIGATIONS. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE MAY BE DETERMINED BY THE BANKRUPTCY COURT, THE AUTOMATIC STAY PROTECTION AFFORDED BY THE CHAPTER 11 PROCEEDINGS PREVENTS ANY ACTION FROM BEING TAKEN AGAINST ANY OF THE DEBTORS WITH REGARD TO ANY OF THE DEFAULTS UNDER THE PRE-PETITION DEBT OBLIGATIONS. WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE COMPANY'S CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS AND A PORTION OF OTHER SUBSIDIARY DEBT, ALL OF THE PRE-PETITION OBLIGATIONS ARE CLASSIFIED AS LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO COMPROMISE IN THE ACCOMPANYING CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS. FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, SEE NOTE 2.
 
 
 
 
Note 10:  Debt (Continued)
 
(a)  Second Extended Dip Facility
 
In connection with the Chapter 11 filings, Adelphia and certain of its subsidiaries (the "Loan Parties") entered into the $1,500,000,000 DIP Facility. On May 10, 2004, the Loan Parties entered into the $1,000,000,000 First Extended DIP Facility, which superseded and replaced, in its entirety, the DIP Facility. On February 25, 2005, the Loan Parties entered into the $1,300,000,000 Second Extended DIP Facility, which superseded and replaced in its entirety the First Extended DIP Facility. The Second Extended DIP Facility was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on February 22, 2005 and closed on February 25, 2005.
 
The Second Extended DIP Facility was to mature upon the earlier of March 31, 2006 or the occurrence of certain other events, as described in the Second Extended DIP Facility. The Second Extended DIP Facility consisted of an $800,000,000 Tranche A Loan (including a $500,000,000 letter of credit subfacility) and a $500,000,000 Tranche B Loan. The proceeds from the borrowings under the Second Extended DIP Facility were permitted to be used for general corporate purposes and investments, as defined in the Second Extended DIP Facility. The Second Extended DIP Facility was secured with a first priority lien on all of the Loan Parties' unencumbered assets, a priming first priority lien on all assets of the Loan Parties securing their pre-petition bank debt and a junior lien on all other assets of the Loan Parties. The applicable margin on loans extended under the Second Extended DIP Facility was 1.25% per annum (1.50% under the First Extended DIP Facility) in the case of Alternate Base Rate loans and 2.25% per annum (2.50% under the First Extended DIP Facility) in the case of Adjusted London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") loans. In addition, under the Second Extended DIP Facility, the commitment fee with respect to the unused portion of the Tranche A Loan was 0.50% per annum (a range of 0.50% to 0.75%, depending upon the unused balance of the Tranche A Loan under the First Extended DIP Facility).
 
In connection with the closing of the Second Extended DIP Facility, on February 25, 2005, the Loan Parties borrowed an aggregate of $578,000,000 thereunder, and used all such proceeds and a portion of available cash and cash equivalents to repay all of the indebtedness outstanding under the First Extended DIP Facility, including accrued and unpaid interest and certain fees and expenses. In addition, all of the participations in the letters of credit outstanding under the First Extended DIP Facility were transferred to certain lenders under the Second Extended DIP Facility.
 
The terms of the Second Extended DIP Facility contained certain restrictive covenants, which included limitations on the ability of the Loan Parties to: (i) incur additional guarantees, liens and indebtedness; (ii) sell or otherwise dispose of certain assets; and (iii) pay dividends or make other distributions or payments with respect to any shares of capital stock, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Second Extended DIP Facility. The Second Extended DIP Facility also required compliance with certain financial covenants with respect to operating results and capital expenditures.
 
From time to time, the Loan Parties and the DIP lenders entered into certain amendments to the terms of the Second Extended DIP Facility. In addition, from time to time, the Company received waivers to prevent or cure certain defaults under the Second Extended DIP Facility. These waivers and amendments were effective through the maturity date of the Second Extended DIP Facility.
 
On March 9, 2005 and December 30, 2005, certain Loan Parties cash collateralized certain letters of credit outstanding under the Second Extended DIP Facility in connection with the consummation of certain asset sales. On May 27, 2005 and July 6, 2005, certain Loan Parties made mandatory prepayments of principal on the Second Extended DIP Facility in connection with the consummation of certain asset sales. As a result, the total commitment of the entire Second Extended DIP Facility was reduced to $1,271,220,000, with the total commitment of the Tranche A Loan being reduced to $771,888,000. As of December 31, 2005, $352,020,000 under the Tranche A Loan has been drawn and letters of credit totaling $81,605,000 have been issued under the Tranche A Loan, leaving
 
 
 
 
Note 10:  Debt (Continued)
 
availability of $338,263,000 under the Tranche A Loan. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2005, the entire $499,332,000 under the Tranche B Loan has been drawn.
 
 
On March 17, 2006, the Loan Parties entered into the $1,300,000,000 Third Extended DIP Facility, which supersedes and replaces in its entirety the Second Extended DIP Facility. The Third Extended DIP Facility was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on March 16, 2006, and closed on March 17, 2006. Except as set forth below, the material terms and conditions of the Third Extended DIP Facility are substantially identical to the material terms and conditions of the Second Extended DIP Facility, including the covenants and collateral securing the Third Extended DIP Facility.
 
The Third Extended DIP Facility generally matures upon the earlier of August 7, 2006 or the occurrence of certain other events, as described in the Third Extended DIP Facility. The Third Extended DIP Facility is comprised of an $800,000,000 Tranche A Loan (including a $500,000,000 letter of credit subfacility) and a $500,000,000 Tranche B Loan. The proceeds from borrowings under the Third Extended DIP Facility are permitted to be used for general corporate purposes and investments, as defined in the Third Extended DIP Facility. The Third Extended DIP Facility is secured with a first priority lien on all of the Loan Parties' unencumbered assets, a priming first priority lien on all assets of the Loan Parties securing their pre-petition bank debt and a junior lien on all other assets of the Loan Parties. The applicable margin on loans extended under the Third Extended DIP Facility was reduced (when compared to the Second Extended DIP Facility) to 1.00% per annum in the case of Alternate Base Rate loans and 2.00% per annum in the case of Adjusted LIBOR rate loans, and the commitment fee with respect to the unused portion of the Tranche A Loan is 0.50% per annum (which is the same fee that was charged under the Second Extended DIP Facility).
 
In connection with the closing of the Third Extended DIP Facility, on March 17, 2006, the Loan Parties borrowed an aggregate of $916,000,000 thereunder, and used all such proceeds and a portion of available cash and cash equivalents to repay all of the indebtedness, including accrued and unpaid interest and certain fees and expenses, outstanding under the Second Extended DIP Facility. In addition, all of the participations in the letters of credit outstanding under the Second Extended DIP Facility were transferred to certain lenders under the Third Extended DIP Facility.
 
(b)  Parent Debt
 
All debt of Adelphia is structurally subordinated to the debt of its subsidiaries such that the assets of an indebted subsidiary are used to satisfy the applicable subsidiary debt before being applied to the payment of parent debt.
 
(c)  Convertible Subordinated Notes
 
The convertible subordinated notes include: (i) $1,029,876,000 aggregate principal amount of 6% convertible subordinated notes; (ii) $975,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.25% convertible subordinated notes; and (iii) unamortized discounts aggregating $12,854,000. Prior to the Forfeiture Order, the Other Rigas Entities held $167,376,000 aggregate principal amount of the 6% notes and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 3.25% notes. The terms of the 6% notes and 3.25% notes provide for the conversion of such notes into Class A Common Stock (Class B Common Stock in the case of notes held by the Other Rigas Entities) at the option of the holder any time prior to maturity at an initial conversion price of $55.49 per share and $43.76 per share, respectively.
 
Pursuant to the Forfeiture Order, all right, title and interest of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities in any securities of the Company were forfeited to the United States on or about June 8, 2005, and such securities are
 
 
 
 
Note 10:  Debt (Continued)
 
expected to be conveyed to the Company (subject to completion of forfeiture proceedings before a federal judge to determine if there are any superior claims) in furtherance of the Non-Prosecution Agreement. The Company will recognize the benefits of such conveyance when it occurs. For additional information, see Note 16.
 
(d)  Deferred Financing Fees
 
Pursuant to the requirements of deferred financing fees related to pre-petition debt have been included in liabilities subject to compromise as an adjustment of the net carrying value of the related pre-petition debt and are no longer being amortized. Amortization of deferred financing fees related to pre-petition debt obligations was terminated effective on the Petition Date.
SOP 90-7,
 
(e)  Co-Borrowing Facilities
 
The Co-Borrowing Facilities represent the aggregate amount outstanding pursuant to three separate Co-Borrowing Facilities dated May 6, 1999, April 14, 2000 and September 28, 2001. Each co-borrower is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of the indebtedness under the applicable Co-Borrowing Facility regardless of whether that co-borrower actually borrowed that amount under such Co-Borrowing Facility. All amounts outstanding under Co-Borrowing Facilities at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 represent pre-petition liabilities that have been classified as liabilities subject to compromise in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Collection of amounts outstanding under the Co-Borrowing Facilities from the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities has not been stayed and actions may be taken to collect such borrowings from the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities.
 
The table below sets forth amounts outstanding for the Co-Borrowing Facilities at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Other Debt Matters
 
The fair value, as determined using third party quoted market prices or rates available for debt with similar terms and maturities, and weighted average interest rate of the Company's debt, including the Company's pre-petition debt, is summarized below as of the indicated periods (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Note 10:  Debt (Continued)
 
The table below sets forth the contractual principal maturities, without consideration for default provisions, of the Company's debt. Such maturities exclude net discounts of $311,326,000 and deferred financing fees of $134,208,000 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
The foregoing maturities and interest rates include significant pre-petition obligations, which as discussed below, are stayed and any action taken with regard to defaults under the pre-petition debt obligations is prevented. Therefore, these commitments do not reflect actual cash outlays in future periods.
 
Interest Rate Derivative Agreements
 
At the Petition Date, all of the Company's derivative financial instruments had been settled or have since been settled except for one fixed rate swap, one variable rate swap and one interest rate collar. As the settlement of the remaining derivative financial instruments will be determined by the Bankruptcy Court, the $3,486,000 fair value of the liability associated with the derivative financial instruments at the Petition Date has been classified as a liability subject to compromise in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
 
13% Cumulative Exchangeable Preferred Stock
 
On July 7, 1997, Adelphia issued 1,500,000 shares of Series A 13% Cumulative Exchangeable Preferred Stock due July 15, 2009 ("Series A Preferred Stock"). The Series A Preferred Stock, which was exchanged in November 1997 for Series B 13% Cumulative Exchangeable Preferred Stock due July 15, 2009 ("Series B Preferred Stock"), had an aggregate liquidation preference of $150,000,000 on the date of issuance and was recorded net of issuance costs of $2,025,000. Upon exchange, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock were returned to their original status of authorized but unissued preferred stock. Dividends are payable semi-annually at 13% of the liquidation preference of the outstanding Series B Preferred Stock. Dividends are payable in cash with any accumulated unpaid dividends bearing interest at 13% per annum. The Series B Preferred Stock ranks junior in right of payment to all indebtedness of Adelphia. Adelphia has the right to redeem, at its option, all or a portion of the Series B Preferred Stock at redemption prices that begin at 106.5% of the liquidation preference thereof on July 15, 2002 and decline to 100% of the liquidation preference thereof on July 15, 2008. Adelphia is required to redeem all of the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock outstanding on July 15, 2009 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the liquidation preference thereof. Any redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock would require the payment, without duplication, of all accumulated and unpaid dividends and interest to the date of redemption. The Series B Preferred Stock provides for voting rights in certain circumstances and contains restrictions and limitations on: (i) dividends and certain other payments and investments; (ii) indebtedness; (iii) mergers and consolidations; and (iv) transactions with affiliates.
 
Adelphia may, at its option, on any dividend payment date, exchange in whole or in part (subject to certain restrictions), the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock for 13% Senior Subordinated Exchange Debentures due July 15, 2009 which have provisions consistent with the provisions of the preferred stock. As a result of the filing of the Debtor's Chapter 11 Cases, the Company, as of the Petition Date, discontinued accruing dividends on all of its preferred stock issuances. For additional information, see Note 2. The Series B Preferred
 
 
 
 
Note 11:  Redeemable Preferred Stock (Continued)
 
Stock and the related accrued dividends are classified as a liability subject to compromise in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
 
Common Stock
 
The Certificate of Incorporation of Adelphia authorizes two classes of $0.01 par value common stock, Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders, with each share of Class A Common Stock entitled to one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock entitled to ten votes, except as described below with respect to the election of one director by the holders of Class A Common Stock, and as otherwise provided by law. In the annual election of directors, the holders of Class A Common Stock voting as a separate class are entitled to elect one of Adelphia's directors. In addition, each share of Class B Common Stock is convertible into a share of Class A Common Stock at the option of the holder. In the event a cash dividend is paid, the holders of Class A Common Stock will be paid 105% of the amount payable per share for each share of Class B Common Stock. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Adelphia, the holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to a preference of $1.00 per share and the amount of all unpaid declared dividends thereon from any funds available after satisfying the liquidation preferences of preferred securities, debt instruments and other senior claims on Adelphia's assets. After such amount is paid, holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to receive $1.00 per share and the amount of all unpaid declared dividends thereon. Any remaining amount would then be shared ratably by both classes. As of December 31, 2005, there were 74,635,728 shares of Class A Common Stock and 12,159,768 shares of Class B Common Stock reserved for issuance pursuant to conversion rights of certain of the Company's debt and preferred stock instruments and exercise privileges under outstanding stock options. In addition, one share of Class A Common Stock is reserved for each share of Class B Common Stock.
 
Outstanding shares of common stock are as follows for the indicated periods:
 
 
Preferred Stock
 
  Adelphia was authorized to issue 50,000,000 shares of $0.01 par value preferred stock at December 31, 2005, including: (i) 1,500,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, all of which were exchanged for Series B Preferred Stock in 1997; (ii) 1,500,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, all of which were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2005; (iii) 20,000 shares of 8/% Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series C Preferred Stock"), none of which were outstanding at December 31, 2005; (iv) 2,875,000 shares of Series D Preferred Stock, all of which were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2005; (v) 15,800,000 shares of Series E Preferred Stock, 13,800,000 of which were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2005; and (vi) 23,000,000 shares of Series F Preferred Stock, all of which were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2005.
General.
1
8
 
With respect to dividend distributions and distributions upon liquidation: (i) all series of Adelphia's preferred stock rank junior to debt instruments and other claims on Adelphia's assets; (ii) the Series B Preferred Stock ranks
 
 
 
 
Note 12:  Stockholders' Deficit (Continued)
 
senior to the Series D Preferred Stock; (iii) the Series D Preferred Stock ranks senior to the Series E Preferred Stock and Series F Preferred Stock; (iv) the Series E Preferred Stock ranks equally with the Series F Preferred Stock; and (v) all series of preferred stock rank senior to the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Although the certificate of designation relating to the Series D Preferred Stock indicates that the Series D Preferred Stock ranks equally with the Series B Preferred Stock, the Company has not been able to locate the consent that would have been required to have been obtained from the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock for this to be the case.
 
As a result of the filing of the Debtors' Chapter 11 Cases, Adelphia, as of the Petition Date, discontinued accruing dividends on all of its outstanding preferred stock. Had the Debtors not filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11, the total annual dividends that Adelphia would have accrued on all series of its preferred stock during each of 2005, 2004 and 2003 would have been $120,125,000.
 
The certificates of designation relating to the Series B Preferred Stock, Series D Preferred Stock, Series E Preferred Stock and Series F Preferred Stock provide for voting rights in certain limited circumstances.
 
The terms of the Series B Preferred Stock are discussed in Note 11, and the terms of the Series D, Series E and Series F Preferred Stock are discussed below.
 
  The Series D Preferred Stock accrues dividends at a rate of 5/% per annum, has an aggregate liquidation preference of $575,000,000 and is convertible at any time into 7,059,546 shares of Class A Common Stock. The conversion ratio is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
Series D Preferred Stock.
1
2
 
  The Series E Preferred Stock accrues dividends at a rate of 7/% per annum, has an aggregate liquidation preference of $345,000,000, subject to adjustment, and is convertible at any time into shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock at $25.37 per share or 13,598,700 shares. All outstanding shares of Series E Preferred Stock were scheduled to be converted into shares of Class A Common Stock on November 15, 2004, at the then applicable conversion ratio. The conversion ratio is based upon the prior average market price of the Company's Class A Common Stock, subject to a minimum of 13,598,700 shares and a maximum of 16,046,500 shares at average market prices above $25.37 per share or below $21.50 per share, respectively. Adelphia has entered into several stipulations postponing, to the extent applicable, the conversion date of both the Series E Preferred Stock and the Series F Preferred Stock. As a result of the continuing impact of the June 2002 bankruptcy filing on the Company's common stock price, the Company expects that the Series E Preferred Stock would convert into the maximum number of Class A Common Stock shares into which the Series E Preferred Stock may be converted, to the extent such conversion was not stayed by the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, the Company recognized a beneficial conversion feature of $2,553,500 based upon the expected $21.50 per share conversion price on its Series E Preferred Stock. Such deemed dividend has been allocated from the preferred stock carrying value to additional paid-in capital and has been accreted, on the interest method, through February 1, 2005. The accretion of the beneficial conversion feature was $77,000, $1,059,000, $960,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and has been recorded as part of net loss applicable to common stockholders in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
Series E Preferred Stock.
1
2
20-day
 
  On January 22, 2002, and in a related transaction on February 7, 2002, Adelphia issued 23,000,000 shares of Series F Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $575,000,000, subject to adjustment. The Series F Preferred Stock accrues dividends at a rate of 7/% per annum and is convertible at any time into shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock at $29.99 per share or 19,172,800 shares. All outstanding shares of Series F Preferred Stock were scheduled to be converted into shares of Class A Common Stock on February 1, 2005, at the then applicable conversion ratio. The conversion ratio is based upon the prior average market price of the Company's Class A Common Stock, subject to a minimum of 19,172,800 shares and a maximum of 22,818,300 shares at average market prices above $29.99 per share or below $25.20 per share, respectively. Adelphia has entered into several stipulations postponing, to the extent applicable, the conversion date
Series F Preferred Stock.
1
2
20-day
 
 
 
 
Note 12:  Stockholders' Deficit (Continued)
 
of both the Series E Preferred Stock and the Series F Preferred Stock. As a result of the continuing impact of the June 2002 bankruptcy filing on the Company's common stock price, the Company expects that the Series F Preferred Stock would convert into the maximum number of Class A Common Stock shares into which the Series F Preferred Stock is convertible. Accordingly, the Company recognized a beneficial conversion feature of $16,866,000 based upon the expected $25.20 per share conversion price on its Series F Preferred Stock. Such deemed dividend has been allocated from the preferred stock carrying value to additional paid-in capital and is being accreted, on the interest method, through February 1, 2005. The accretion of the beneficial conversion feature was $506,000, $6,948,000 and $6,357,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and has been recorded as part of net loss applicable to common stockholders in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
 
1998 Adelphia Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan
 
During October 1998, Adelphia adopted its 1998 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1998 Plan"). The 1998 Plan, which was approved by the Adelphia stockholders, provides for the granting of: (i) options which qualify as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code; (ii) options which do not so qualify; (iii) share awards (with or without restriction on vesting); (iv) stock appreciation rights; and (v) stock equivalent awards or phantom units. The number of shares of Class A Common Stock authorized for issuance under the 1998 Plan is 7,500,000. Options, awards and units may be granted under the 1998 Plan to directors, officers, employees and consultants of the Company. The 1998 Plan provides that incentive stock options must be granted with an exercise price of not less than the fair market value of the underlying Class A Common Stock on the date of grant. Options outstanding under the 1998 Plan may be exercised by paying the exercise price per share through various alternative settlement methods. Certain options granted under the 1998 Plan vested immediately and others vest over periods of up to four years. Generally, options were granted with a purchase price equal to the fair value of the shares to be purchased as of the date of grant and the options had a maximum term of ten years. Since 2001, no awards have been granted pursuant to the 1998 Plan and the Company does not intend to grant any new awards pursuant to the 1998 Plan.
 
The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 13:  Stock Compensation and Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)
 
The following table summarizes information about the Company's outstanding stock options at December 31, 2005:
 
 
 
 
401(k) Employee Savings Plan
 
The Company sponsors a tax-qualified retirement plan governed by Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, which provides that eligible full-time employees may contribute up to 25% of their pre-tax compensation subject to certain limitations. For 2003, the Company made matching contributions not exceeding the lesser of $750 or 1.5% of each participant's pre-tax compensation. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company's matching contribution was increased to 100% of the first 3% and 50% of the next 2% of each participant's pre-tax compensation. The Company recognized expense of $13,940,000, $13,941,000 and $4,294,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively related to these contributions.
 
Short-Term Incentive Plan
 
The Company maintains a short-term incentive plan (the "STIP"), which is a calendar-year program that provides for the payment of annual bonuses to certain employees of the Company based upon the satisfaction of qualitative and quantitative metrics, as approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board. In general, in addition to certain general/area managers, full-time employees with a title of director and above, including certain of the Company's named executive officers, are eligible to participate in the STIP. For 2005, 2004 and 2003, approximately 320, 350 and 300 employees, respectively, participated in the STIP. Target awards under the STIP are based on a percentage of each participant's base pay. Subject to the execution of a general release, in the event that an employee's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for any reason other than for cause (as determined by the plan administrator), such employee will be entitled to a pro rata portion paid at target of his or her STIP award for the year in which the termination occurs. The Company recognized expense of $12,291,000, $9,614,000 and $7,353,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to the STIP.
 
Performance Retention Plan
 
The Company maintains the amended and restated Performance Retention Plan (the "PRP"), which serves to replace equity-based long-term incentive plans previously maintained by the Company and to encourage key employees to remain with the Company by providing annual cash incentive awards based on the Company's performance during a particular year. Adelphia's CEO and COO do not participate in the PRP. Target awards range from 25% to 200% of a participant's base salary, and the amount of each award is dependent on the Company's achievement of certain financial targets. Initial awards vest in 36 monthly installments starting at the end of each month one year following the month in which the participant begins participation in the PRP. Subsequent awards vest in 36 monthly installments starting as of January 31 of the year immediately following the plan year in which the award was granted. The PRP provides that, in the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the PRP), all
 
 
 
 
Note 13:  Stock Compensation and Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)
 
awards (both vested and unvested) will be paid in cash on the date of such consummation of the Change in Control. Following a change in control, the unvested portion of all awards will be paid based on either the value established for each annual grant based on performance or 100% achievement of any unvalued grants. The Company recognized expense of $9,752,000, $6,499,000 and $2,323,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to the PRP.
 
Key Employee Retention Programs
 
On September 21, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court entered orders authorizing the Debtors to implement and adopt the Adelphia Communications Corporation Key Employee Continuity Program (as amended, the "Stay Plan") and the Adelphia Communications Corporation Sale Bonus Program (as amended, the "Sale Plan"). On April 20, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order authorizing the Debtors to implement and adopt the Adelphia Communications Corporation Executive Vice President Continuity Program (the "EVP Stay Plan" and, together with the Stay Plan and the Sale Plan, the "Continuity Program"), and authorized the Executive Vice Presidents' participation in the Sale Plan (the "EVP KERP Order"). The Continuity Program is designed to motivate certain employees (including our named executive officers, other than the CEO and COO) to remain with the Company.
 
With respect to the Continuity Program, in the event that a Change in Control (as defined in the EVP Stay Plan, the Stay Plan and the Sale Plan) occurs and all of the bonuses under the Continuity Program are paid, the total cost of the Continuity Program could be approximately $33,700,000 (including approximately $1,400,000 payable under the EVP Stay Plan, $9,400,000 paid under the Stay Plan during 2005, $19,900,000 payable under the Sale Plan (including $1,850,000 payable to certain Executive Vice Presidents under the Sale Plan pursuant to the EVP KERP Order) and a $3,000,000 pool from which the CEO of Adelphia may grant additional stay or sale bonuses, of which $761,000 was paid as stay bonuses during 2005).
 
  Subject to the terms of the EVP Stay Plan, certain employees of the Company with the title of Executive Vice President are participants in the EVP Stay Plan and are eligible to receive a cash payment in the form of a bonus if, subject to certain limited exceptions, the participants continue their active employment with the Company from the date such participants are notified in writing that they have been selected for coverage under the EVP Stay Plan until immediately prior to the date on which a Change in Control (as defined in the EVP Stay Plan) occurs. The CEO establishes the amount of each participant's stay bonus, subject to the approval of the Compensation Committee of the Board. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized expense of $1,026,000 related to the EVP Stay Plan.
EVP Stay Plan.
 
  Subject to the terms of the Stay Plan, certain employees of the Company (other than employees who participate in the EVP Stay Plan) received cash payments in 2005 in the form of bonuses for their continued active employment with the Company. The CEO establishes the amount of each participant's stay bonus, subject to the approval of the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Company recognized expense of $6,891,000 and $3,302,000 during 2005 and 2004, respectively, related to the Stay Plan and additional stay bonuses.
Stay Plan.
 
  Under the terms of the Sale Plan, certain employees of the Company may be eligible to receive cash payments in the form of a bonus if, subject to certain limited exceptions, the participants continue their active employment with the Company or its successors until, and following, a Change in Control (as defined in the Sale Plan). Generally, 50% of the bonus amount will be paid to eligible participants within 10 business days of the effective date of the Change in Control and the remaining 50% of the bonus amount will be paid to eligible participants upon a date that is within 10 business days of the six-month anniversary of such effective date. The CEO of Adelphia has selected the participants and has established the amount of each participant's sale bonus, and the Compensation Committee has approved such amounts. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized expense of $16,003,000 related to the Sale Plan and additional sale bonuses.
Sale Plan.
 
 
 
 
Note 13:  Stock Compensation and Employee Benefit Plans (Continued)
 
Amended and Restated Severance Program
 
Certain employees of the Company are currently afforded severance benefits either pursuant to Adelphia's existing severance plan, the Amended and Restated Adelphia Communications Corporation Severance Plan (the "Severance Plan"), or pursuant to an existing employment agreement with the Company (each an "Existing Employment Agreement"). Except for certain limited exceptions, all full-time employees of Adelphia and certain affiliates that do not have Existing Employment Agreements are covered by the Severance Plan, which provides for severance pay in the event of certain involuntary employment terminations without "Cause" (as defined in the Severance Plan). The severance benefits pursuant to the Severance Plan and the Existing Employment Agreements could cost the Company a maximum of $9,973,000, consisting of severance benefits, healthcare continuation and relocation reimbursement expenses), if each Director-level employee, vice president ("VP") and senior vice president ("SVP") were to be involuntarily separated from the Company and all eligible VPs and SVPs qualified for the maximum amount of relocation reimbursement. Adelphia's CEO, COO and EVPs are not eligible to participate in the Severance Plan. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized expense of $5,043,000 related to the Severance Plan.
 
 
The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return with all of its 80%-or-more-owned subsidiaries. Consolidated subsidiaries in which the Company owns less than 80% each file a separate income tax return. The components of income tax (expense) benefit are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
The income tax expense of certain of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities which are subject to income tax has been included above. All other Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities are flow-through entities for tax purposes and the items of income and expense are included in the taxable income of unrelated parties. Also, no deferred tax assets or liabilities are recorded for these entities.
 
Income tax (expense) benefit is attributed to the following (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Note 14:  Income Taxes (Continued)
 
Significant components of the Company's net deferred tax liability are as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
The net change in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Due to a lack of earnings history, current bankruptcy situation, and impairment charges recognized with respect to franchise costs and goodwill, the Company cannot rely on forecasts of future earnings as a means to realize its deferred tax assets. The Company has determined that it is more likely than not that it will not realize
 
 
 
 
Note 14:  Income Taxes (Continued)
 
certain deferred tax assets and, accordingly, has recorded valuation allowances associated with these deferred tax assets.
 
During 2004, the Company re-evaluated the impact on its valuation allowance due to the timing of its reversing temporary differences, including its policy of netting the effect of reversing temporary differences associated with customer relationship intangible assets with intangible assets that have indefinite lives. As a result of this evaluation, the Company changed the expectations for scheduling the expected reversal of its deferred tax liabilities associated with these intangible assets and included in its income tax benefit for 2004 a $166,000,000 reduction in the valuation allowances on deferred tax assets related to current expectations for the reversal of its deferred tax liabilities.
 
SFAS No. 109, requires that any valuation allowance established for an acquired entity's deductible temporary differences at the date of acquisition that is subsequently recognized, first reduces goodwill and other noncurrent assets related to the acquisition and then reduces income tax expense. At December 31, 2005, the amount of the valuation allowance for which any tax benefits recognized in future periods will be allocated to reduce goodwill or other intangible assets of an acquired entity is $623,812,000.
Accounting for Income Taxes,
 
The difference between the expected income tax (expense) benefit at the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate of 35% and the actual income tax (expense) benefit is as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
As of December 31, 2005, the Company had NOL carryforwards of approximately $11,600,000,000 and $7,905,000,000 for federal and state income tax purposes, respectively, expiring from 2006 to 2025. Consolidated subsidiaries in which the Company owns less than an 80% interest had NOL carryforwards of $89,000,000 for federal and state income tax purposes expiring from 2006 to 2024. These amounts are based on the income tax returns filed for 2004 and certain adjustments to be reflected in amended returns that are expected to be filed for the 2004 tax year and prior periods, plus 2005 tax losses. The Company expects to file amended federal and state income tax returns for 1999 through 2004. Such returns are subject to examination by federal and state taxing authorities, generally, for a period of three years after the NOL carryforward is utilized.
 
In the event the Debtors emerge from bankruptcy: (i) NOL carryforwards are expected to be reduced or completely eliminated by debt cancellation income that might result under the bankruptcy proceedings; (ii) other tax attributes, including the Company's tax basis in its property and equipment, could be reduced; and (iii) a
 
 
 
 
Note 14:  Income Taxes (Continued)
 
statutory ownership change, as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, would occur upon issuance of new common stock to claimholders pursuant to any approved plan of reorganization. This ownership change may limit the annual usage of any remaining tax attributes that were generated prior to the change of ownership. The amount of the limitation will be determinable at the time of the ownership change.
 
The Company believes that adequate provision has been made for tax positions that may be challenged by taxing authorities. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, the Company believes that the reserves reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. Unfavorable settlement of any particular issue would require the use of cash. Favorable resolution could result in reduced income tax expense reported in the consolidated financial statements in the future. The tax reserves are presented in the balance sheet within other noncurrent liabilities. Certain tax reserve items may be settled through the bankruptcy process which could result in reduced income tax expense reported in the consolidated financial statements in the future.
 
The Company's income tax (expense) benefit for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 has been calculated assuming the Company will continue as a going concern and does not reflect the impact the Sale Transaction may have on the Company's ability to utilize its NOL carryforwards or other tax attributes. If the Sale Transaction is consummated, a significant portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized and a significant portion of the valuation allowance will be released.
 
 
The Company's only reportable operating segment is its "cable" segment. The cable segment includes the Company's cable system operations (including consolidated subsidiaries, equity method investments and variable interest entities) that provide the distribution of analog and digital video programming and HSI services to customers for a monthly fee through a network of fiber optic and coaxial cables. This segment also includes the Company's media services (advertising sales) business. Upon the adoption of on January 1, 2004, the reportable cable segment also includes the operations of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities. See Note 5 for additional information. The reportable cable segment includes five operating regions that have been combined as one reportable segment, because all of such regions have similar economic characteristics. The Company identifies reportable segments as those consolidated segments that represent 10% or more of the combined revenue, net earnings or loss, or total assets of all of the Company's operating segments as of and for the period ended on the most recent balance sheet date presented. Operating segments that do not meet this threshold are aggregated for segment reporting purposes within the "corporate and other" column.
FIN 46-R
 
 
 
 
Note 15:  Segments (Continued)
 
Selected financial information concerning the Company's current operating segments is presented below for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
The Company did not derive more than 10% of its revenue from any one customer during 2005, 2004 or 2003. The Company's long-lived assets related to its foreign operations were $6,517,000 and $6,394,000, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company's revenue related to its foreign operations was $18,781,000, $13,412,000 and $10,159,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company's assets and revenue related to its foreign operations were not significant to the Company's financial position or results of operations, respectively, during any of the periods presented.
 
 
 
 
 
Commitments
 
Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable capital and operating leases as of December 31, 2005, are set forth below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court, the Company may reject pre-petition executory contracts and unexpired leases. As such, the Company expects that its liabilities pertaining to leases, and the related amounts, may change significantly in the future. In addition, it is expected that, in the normal course of business, expiring leases will be renewed or replaced by leases on other properties.
 
The Company rents office and studio space, tower sites, and space on utility poles under leases with terms which are generally one to five years. Rental expense for the indicated periods is set forth below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
The Company's cable systems are typically constructed and operated under the authority of nonexclusive permits or "franchises" granted by local state governmental authorities. Franchises contain varying provisions relating to the construction operation of cable systems, including, in certain cases, the imposition of requirements to rebuild or upgrade cable systems or to extend the cable network to new residential developments. The Company's franchises also typically provide for periodic payments of fees of not more than 5% of gross revenue in the applicable franchise area to the governmental authority granting the franchise. Additionally, many franchises require payments to the franchising authority to fund the construction or improvement of facilities that are used to provide public, education and governmental ("PEG") access channels. The Company's minimum commitments under franchise agreements, including the estimated cost of fulfilling rebuild, upgrade and network extension commitments, and the fixed minimum amounts payable to franchise authorities for PEG access channels,
and/or
and/or
 
 
 
 
 
are set forth in the following table. The amounts set forth in the table below do not include the variable franchise fee and PEG commitments that are described in the paragraph following this table (amounts in thousands):
 
 
As described above, the Company is also obligated to make variable payments to franchise authorities for franchise fees and PEG access channels that are dependent on the amount of revenue generated or the number of subscribers served within the applicable franchise area. Such variable payments aggregated $134,383,000, $130,073,000 and $114,725,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
The Company pays programming and license fees under multi-year agreements with expiration dates ranging through 2015. The amounts paid under these agreements are typically based on per customer fees, which may escalate over the term of the agreements. In certain cases, such per customer fees are subject to volume or channel discounts and other adjustments. The Company incurred total programming expenses of $1,166,156,000, $1,149,168,000 and $1,056,820,000 during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
line-up
 
Contingencies
 
Reorganization Expenses Due to Bankruptcy and Professional Fees
 
The Company is currently aware of certain success fees that potentially could be paid upon the Company's emergence from bankruptcy to third party financial advisers retained by the Company and Committees in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases. Currently, these success fees are estimated to be between $6,500,000 and $19,950,000 in the aggregate. In addition, pursuant to their employment agreements, the CEO and the COO of the Company are eligible to receive equity awards of Adelphia stock with a minimum aggregate fair value of $17,000,000 upon the Debtors' emergence from bankruptcy. Under the employment agreements, the value of such equity awards will be determined based on the average trading price of the post-emergence common stock of Adelphia during the 15 trading days immediately preceding the 90th day following the date of emergence. Pursuant to the employment agreements, these equity awards, which will be subject to vesting and trading restrictions, may be increased up to a maximum aggregate value of $25,500,000 at the discretion of the Board. As no plan of reorganization has been confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, no accrual for such contingent payments or equity awards has been recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
 
Letters of Credit
 
The Company has issued standby letters of credit for the benefit of franchise authorities and other parties, most of which have been issued to an intermediary surety bonding company. All such letters of credit will expire no later than October 7, 2006. At December 31, 2005, the aggregate principal amount of letters of credit issued by the Company was $82,495,000, of which $81,605,000 was issued under the Second Extended DIP Facility and $890,000 was collateralized by cash. Letters of credit issued under the DIP facilities reduce the amount that may be borrowed under the DIP facilities.
 
 
 
 
 
Litigation Matters
 
  The Company follows SFAS No. 5, , in determining its accruals and disclosures with respect to loss contingencies. Accordingly, estimated losses from loss contingencies are accrued by a charge to income when information available indicates that it is probable that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If a loss contingency is not probable or reasonably estimable, disclosure of the loss contingency is made in the financial statements when it is reasonably possible that a loss may be incurred.
General.
Accounting for Contingencies
 
  On July 24, 2002, the SEC Civil Action was filed against Adelphia, certain members of the Rigas Family and others, alleging various securities fraud and improper books and records claims arising out of actions allegedly taken or directed by certain members of the Rigas Family who held all of the senior executive positions at Adelphia and constituted five of the nine members of Adelphia's board of directors (none of whom remain with the Company).
SEC Civil Action and DoJ Investigation.
 
On December 3, 2003, the SEC filed a proof of claim in the Chapter 11 Cases against Adelphia for, among other things, penalties, disgorgement and prejudgment interest in an unspecified amount. The staff of the SEC told the Company's advisors that its asserted claims for disgorgement and civil penalties under various legal theories could amount to billions of dollars. On July 14, 2004, the Creditors' Committee initiated an adversary proceeding seeking, in effect, to subordinate the SEC's claims based on the SEC Civil Action.
 
On April 25, 2005, after extensive negotiations with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney, the Company entered into the Non-Prosecution Agreement pursuant to which the Company agreed, among other things: (i) to contribute $715,000,000 in value to a fund to be established and administered by the United States Attorney General and the SEC for the benefit of investors harmed by the activities of prior management (the "Restitution Fund"); (ii) to continue to cooperate with the U.S. Attorney until the later of April 25, 2007, or the date upon which all prosecutions arising out of the conduct described in the Rigas Criminal Action (as described below) and SEC Civil Action are final; and (iii) not to assert claims against the Rigas Family except for John J. Rigas, Timothy J. Rigas and Michael J. Rigas (together, the "Excluded Parties"), provided that Michael J. Rigas will cease to be an Excluded Party if all currently pending criminal proceedings against him are resolved without a felony conviction on a charge involving fraud or false statements (other than false statements to the U.S. Attorney or the SEC). On November 23, 2005, Michael J. Rigas pled guilty to a violation of Title 47, U.S. Code, Section 220(e) for making a false entry in a Company record, (in a form required to be filed with the SEC), and on March 3, 2006, was sentenced to two years of probation, including ten months of home confinement.
 
The Company's contribution to the Restitution Fund will consist of stock, future proceeds of litigation and, assuming consummation of the Sale Transaction (or another sale generating cash of at least $10 billion), cash. In the event of a sale generating both stock and at least $10 billion in cash, as contemplated in the Sale Transaction, the components of the Company's contribution to the Restitution Fund will consist of $600,000,000 in cash and stock (with at least $200,000,000 in cash) and 50% of the first $230,000,000 of future proceeds, if any, from certain litigation against third parties who injured the Company. If, however, the Sale Transaction (or another sale) is not consummated and instead the Company emerges from bankruptcy as an independent entity, the $600,000,000 payment by the Company will consist entirely of stock in the reorganized Adelphia. Unless extended on consent of the U.S. Attorney and the SEC, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, the Company must make these payments on or before the earlier of: (i) October 15, 2006; (ii) 120 days after confirmation of a stand-alone plan of reorganization; or (iii) seven days after the first distribution of stock or cash to creditors under any plan of reorganization. The Company recorded charges of $425,000,000 and $175,000,000 during 2004 and 2002, respectively, related to the Non-Prosecution Agreement. The $425,000,000 charge is reflected in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
The U.S. Attorney agreed: (i) not to prosecute Adelphia or specified subsidiaries of Adelphia for any conduct (other than criminal tax violations) related to the Rigas Criminal Action (defined below) or the allegations contained in the SEC Civil Action; (ii) not to use information obtained through the Company's cooperation with the U.S. Attorney to criminally prosecute the Company for tax violations; and (iii) to transfer to the Company all of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities forfeited by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities, certain specified real estate forfeited by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities and any securities of the Company that were directly or indirectly owned by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities prior to forfeiture. The U.S. Attorney agreed with the Rigas Family not to require forfeiture of Coudersport and Bucktail (which together served approximately 5,000 subscribers (unaudited) as of the date of the Forfeiture Order). A condition precedent to the Company's obligation to make the contribution to the Restitution Fund described in the preceding paragraph is the Company's receipt of title to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, certain specified real estate and any securities described above forfeited by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities, free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances, or adverse interests. The forfeited Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities anticipated to be transferred to the Company (subject to completion of forfeiture proceedings before a federal judge to determine if there are any superior claims) represent the overwhelming majority of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities' subscribers and value.
 
Also on April 25, 2005, the Company consented to the entry of a final judgment in the SEC Civil Action resolving the SEC's claims against the Company. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company will be permanently enjoined from violating various provisions of the federal securities laws, and the SEC has agreed that if the Company makes the $715,000,000 contribution to the Restitution Fund, then the Company will not be required to pay disgorgement or a civil monetary penalty to satisfy the SEC's claims.
 
Pursuant to letter agreements with TW NY and Comcast, the U.S. Attorney has agreed, notwithstanding any failure by the Company to comply with the Non-Prosecution Agreement, that it will not criminally prosecute any of the joint venture entities or their subsidiaries purchased from the Company by TW NY or Comcast pursuant to the Purchase Agreements. Under such letter agreements, each of TW NY and Comcast have agreed that following the closing of the Sale Transaction they will cooperate with the relevant governmental authorities' requests for information about the Company's operations, finances and corporate governance between 1997 and confirmation of the Plan. The sole and exclusive remedy against TW NY or Comcast for breach of any obligation in the letter agreements is a civil action for breach of contract seeking specific performance of such obligations. In addition, TW NY and Comcast entered into letter agreements with the SEC agreeing that upon and after the closing of the Sale Transaction, TW NY, Comcast and their respective affiliates (including the joint venture entities transferred pursuant to the Purchase Agreements) will not be subject to, or have any obligation under, the final judgment consented to by the Company in the SEC Civil Action.
 
The Non-Prosecution Agreement was subject to the approval of, and has been approved by, the Bankruptcy Court. Adelphia's consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action was subject to the approval of, and has been approved by, both the Bankruptcy Court and the District Court. Various parties have challenged and sought appellate review or reconsideration of the orders of the Bankruptcy Court approving these settlements. The District Court affirmed the Bankruptcy Court's approval of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, Adelphia's consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action and the Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement. On March 24, 2006, various parties appealed the District Court's order affirming the Bankruptcy Court's approval to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the "Second Circuit"). The order of the District Court approving Adelphia's consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action has not been appealed. The appeals of the District Court's approval of the Government-Rigas Settlement Agreement (defined below) and the creation of the Restitution Fund have been denied by the Second Circuit.
 
  On July 24, 2002, Adelphia filed a complaint in the Bankruptcy Court against John J. Rigas, Michael J. Rigas, Timothy J. Rigas, James P. Rigas, James Brown,
Adelphia's Lawsuit Against the Rigas Family.
 
 
 
 
 
Michael C. Mulcahey, Peter L. Venetis, Doris Rigas, Ellen Rigas Venetis and the Rigas Family Entities (the "Rigas Civil Action"). This action generally alleged the defendants misappropriated billions of dollars from the Company in breach of their fiduciary duties to Adelphia. On November 15, 2002, Adelphia filed an amended complaint against the defendants that expanded upon the facts alleged in the original complaint and alleged violations of the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations ("RICO") Act, breach of fiduciary duty, securities fraud, fraudulent concealment, fraudulent misrepresentation, conversion , waste of corporate assets, breach of contract, unjust enrichment, fraudulent conveyance, constructive trust, inducing breach of fiduciary duty, and a request for an accounting (the "Amended Complaint"). The Amended Complaint sought relief in the form of, among other things, treble and punitive damages, disgorgement of monies and securities obtained as a consequence of the Rigas Family's improper conduct and attorneys' fees.
 
On April 25, 2005, Adelphia and the Rigas Family entered into a settlement agreement with respect to the Rigas Civil Action (the "Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement"), pursuant to which Adelphia agreed, among other things: (i) to pay $11,500,000 to a legal defense fund for the benefit of the Rigas Family; (ii) to provide management services to Coudersport and Bucktail for an interim period ending no later than December 31, 2005 ("Interim Management Services"); (iii) to indemnify Coudersport and Bucktail, and the Rigas Family's (other than the Excluded Parties') interest therein, against claims asserted by the lenders under the Co-Borrowing Facilities with respect to such indebtedness up to the fair market value of those entities (without regard to their obligations with respect to such indebtedness); (iv) to provide certain members of the Rigas Family with certain indemnities, reimbursements or other protections in connection with certain third party claims arising out of Company litigation, and in connection with claims against certain members of the Rigas Family by any of the Tele-Media Joint Ventures or Century/ML Cable; and (v) within ten business days of the date on which the consent order of forfeiture is entered, dismiss the Rigas Civil Action, except for claims against the Excluded Parties. The Rigas Family agreed: (i) to make certain tax elections, under certain circumstances, with respect to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail); (ii) to pay Adelphia five percent of the gross operating revenue of Coudersport and Bucktail for the Interim Management Services; and (iii) to offer employment to certain Coudersport and Bucktail employees on terms and conditions that, in the aggregate, are no less favorable to such employees (other than any employees who were expressly excluded by written notice to Adelphia received by July 1, 2005) than their terms of employment with the Company.
 
Pursuant to the Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement, on June 21, 2005, the Company filed a dismissal with prejudice of all claims in this action except against the Excluded Parties.
 
This settlement was subject to the approval of, and has been approved by, the Bankruptcy Court. Various parties have challenged and sought appellate review or reconsideration of the order of the Bankruptcy Court approving this settlement. The appeals of the Bankruptcy Court's approval remain pending.
 
In June 2005, the Company paid and expensed the aforementioned $11,500,000 in legal defense costs (see Note 6). The Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement releases the Company from further obligation to provide funding for legal defense costs for the Rigas Family.
 
  In connection with an investigation conducted by the DoJ, on July 24, 2002, certain members of the Rigas Family and certain alleged co-conspirators were arrested, and on September 23, 2002, were indicted by a grand jury on charges including fraud, securities fraud, bank fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud (the "Rigas Criminal Action"). On November 14, 2002, one of the Rigas Family's alleged co-conspirators, James Brown, pleaded guilty to one count each of conspiracy, securities fraud and bank fraud. On January 10, 2003, another of the Rigas Family's alleged co-conspirators, Timothy Werth, who had not been arrested with the others on July 24, 2002, pleaded guilty to one count each of securities fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud, wire fraud and bank fraud. The trial in the Rigas Criminal Action began on February 23, 2004 in the District Court. On July 8,
Rigas Criminal Action.
 
 
 
 
 
2004, the jury returned a partial verdict in the Rigas Criminal Action. John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas were each found guilty of conspiracy (one count), bank fraud (two counts), and securities fraud (15 counts) and not guilty of wire fraud (five counts). Michael J. Mulcahey was acquitted of all 23 counts against him. The jury found Michael J. Rigas not guilty of conspiracy and wire fraud, but remained undecided on the securities fraud and bank fraud charges against him. On July 9, 2004, the court declared a mistrial on the remaining charges against Michael J. Rigas after the jurors were unable to reach a verdict as to those charges. The bank fraud charges against Michael J. Rigas have since been dismissed with prejudice. On March 17, 2005, the District Court denied the motion of John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas for a new trial. On June 20, 2005, John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas were convicted and sentenced to 15 years and 20 years in prison, respectively. John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas have appealed their convictions and sentences and remain free on bail pending resolution of their appeals. On November 23, 2005, Michael J. Rigas pled guilty to a violation of Title 47, U.S. Code, Section 220(e) for making a false entry in a Company record (in a form required to be filed with the SEC), and on March 3, 2006, was sentenced to two years of probation, including ten months of home confinement.
 
The indictment against the Rigas Family included a request for entry of a money judgment in an amount exceeding $2,500,000,000 and for entry of an order of forfeiture of all interests of the convicted Rigas defendants in the Rigas Family Entities. On December 10, 2004, the DoJ filed an application for a preliminary order of forfeiture finding John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas jointly and severally liable for personal money judgments in the amount of $2,533,000,000.
 
On April 25, 2005, the Rigas Family and the U.S. Attorney entered into a settlement agreement (the "Government-Rigas Settlement Agreement"), pursuant to which the Rigas Family agreed to forfeit: (i) all of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities with the exception of Coudersport and Bucktail; (ii) certain specified real estate; and (iii) all securities in the Company directly or indirectly owned by the Rigas Family. The U.S. Attorney agreed: (i) not to seek additional monetary penalties from the Rigas Family, including the request for a money judgment as noted above; (ii) from the proceeds of certain assets forfeited by the Rigas Family, to establish the Restitution Fund for the purpose of providing restitution to holders of the Company's publicly traded securities; and (iii) to inform the District Court of this agreement at the sentencing of John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas.
 
Pursuant to the Forfeiture Order, all right, title and interest of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities in the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail), certain specified real estate and any securities of the Company were forfeited to the United States. Such assets and securities are expected to be transferred to the Company (subject to completion of forfeiture proceedings before a federal judge to determine if there are any superior claims) in furtherance of the Non-Prosecution Agreement. On August 19, 2005, the Company filed a petition with the District Court seeking an order transferring title to these assets and securities to the Company. Since that time, petitions have been filed by three lending banks, each asserting an interest in the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities for the purpose, according to the petitions, of protecting against the contingency that the Bankruptcy Court approval of certain settlement agreements is overturned on appeal. In addition, petitions have been filed by two local franchising authorities with respect to two of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, by two mechanic's lienholders with respect to two of the forfeited real properties and by a school district with respect to one of the forfeited real properties. Finally, the Company's petition asserted claims to the forfeited properties on behalf of two subsidiaries, Century/ML Cable and Super Cable ALK International, A.A. (Venezuela), that are no longer owned by the Company. The government has requested that its next status report to the District Court regarding the forfeiture proceedings be submitted on April 21, 2006. See Note 6 for additional information.
 
The Company was not a defendant in the Rigas Criminal Action, but was under investigation by the DoJ regarding matters related to alleged wrongdoing by certain members of the Rigas Family. Upon approval of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, Adelphia and specified subsidiaries are no longer subject to criminal prosecution (other than for criminal tax violations) by the U.S. Attorney for any conduct related to the Rigas Criminal Action or
 
 
 
 
 
the allegations contained in the SEC Civil Action, so long as the Company complies with its obligations under the Non-Prosecution Agreement.
 
  Certain of the Debtors and certain former officers, directors and advisors have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state securities laws and related claims. These actions generally allege that the defendants made materially misleading statements understating the Company's liabilities and exaggerating the Company's financial results in violation of securities laws.
Securities and Derivative Litigation.
 
In particular, beginning on April 2, 2002, various groups of plaintiffs filed more than 30 class action complaints, purportedly on behalf of certain of the Company's shareholders and bondholders or classes thereof in federal court in Pennsylvania. Several non-class action lawsuits were brought on behalf of individuals or small groups of security holders in federal courts in Pennsylvania, New York, South Carolina and New Jersey, and in state courts in New York, Pennsylvania, California and Texas. Seven derivative suits were also filed in federal and state courts in Pennsylvania, and four derivative suits were filed in state court in Delaware. On May 6, 2002, a notice and proposed order of dismissal without prejudice was filed by the plaintiff in one of these four Delaware derivative actions. The remaining three Delaware derivative actions were consolidated on May 22, 2002. On February 10, 2004, the parties stipulated and agreed to the dismissal of these consolidated actions with prejudice.
 
The complaints, which named as defendants the Company, certain former officers and directors of the Company and, in some cases, the Company's former auditors, lawyers, as well as financial institutions who worked with the Company, generally allege that, among other improper statements and omissions, defendants misled investors regarding the Company's liabilities and earnings in the Company's public filings. The majority of these actions assert claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Certain bondholder actions assert claims for violation of Section 11 Section 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933. Certain of the state court actions allege various state law claims.
Rule 10b-5.
and/or
 
On July 23, 2003, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation issued an order transferring numerous civil actions to the District Court for consolidated or coordinated pre-trial proceedings (the "MDL Proceedings").
 
On September 15, 2003, proposed lead plaintiffs and proposed co-lead counsel in the consolidated class action were appointed in the MDL Proceedings. On December 22, 2003, lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated class action complaint. Motions to dismiss have been filed by various defendants. Beginning in the spring of 2005, the court in the MDL Proceedings granted in part various motions to dismiss relating to many of the actions, while granting leave to replead some claims. The parties continue to brief pleading motions, and no answer to the consolidated class action complaint, or the other actions, has been filed. The consolidated class action complaint seeks monetary damages of an unspecified amount, rescission and reasonable costs and expenses and such other relief as the court may deem just and proper. The individual actions against the Company also seek damages of an unspecified amount.
 
Pursuant to section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, all of the securities and derivative claims that were filed against the Company before the bankruptcy filings are automatically stayed and not proceeding as to the Company.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  After the alleged misconduct of certain members of the Rigas Family was publicly disclosed, three actions were filed in May and June 2002 against the Company by former shareholders of companies that the Company acquired, in whole or in part, through stock transactions. These actions allege that the Company improperly induced these former shareholders to enter into these stock transactions through misrepresentations and
Acquisition Actions.
 
 
 
 
 
omissions, and the plaintiffs seek monetary damages and equitable relief through rescission of the underlying acquisition transactions.
 
Two of these proceedings have been filed with the American Arbitration Association alleging violations of federal and state securities laws, breaches of representations and warranties and fraud in the inducement. One of these proceedings seeks rescission, compensatory damages and pre-judgment relief, and the other seeks specific performance. The third action alleges fraud and seeks rescission, damages and attorneys' fees. This action was originally filed in a Colorado State Court, and subsequently was removed by the Company to the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The Colorado State Court action was closed administratively on July 16, 2004, subject to reopening if and when the automatic bankruptcy stay is lifted or for other good cause shown. These actions have been stayed pursuant to the automatic stay provisions of section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  Adelphia is a defendant in an adversary proceeding in the Bankruptcy Court consisting of a declaratory judgment action and a motion for a preliminary injunction brought on January 9, 2003 by the Equity Committee, seeking, among other relief, a declaration as to how the shares owned by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities would be voted should a consent solicitation to elect members of the Board be undertaken. Adelphia has opposed such requests for relief.
Equity Committee Shareholder Litigation.
 
The claims of the Equity Committee are based on shareholder rights that the Equity Committee asserts should be recognized even in bankruptcy, coupled with continuing claims, as of the filing of the lawsuit, of historical connections between the Board and the Rigas Family. Motions to dismiss filed by Adelphia and others are fully briefed in this action, but no argument date has been set. If this action survives these motions to dismiss, resolution of disputed fact issues will occur in two phases pursuant to a schedule set by the Bankruptcy Court. Determinations regarding fact questions relating to the conduct of the Rigas Family will not occur until, at a minimum, after the resolution of the Rigas Criminal Action.
 
No pleadings have been filed in the adversary proceeding since September 2003.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  Adelphia and ML Media have been involved in a longstanding dispute concerning Century/ML Cable's management, the buy/sell rights of ML Media and various other matters.
ML Media Litigation.
 
In March 2000, ML Media brought suit against Century, Adelphia and Arahova Communications, Inc. ("Arahova") in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, seeking, among other things: (i) the dissolution of Century/ML Cable and the appointment of a receiver to sell Century/ML Cable's assets; (ii) if no receiver was appointed, an order authorizing ML Media to conduct an auction for the sale of Century/ML Cable's assets to an unrelated third party and enjoining Adelphia from interfering with or participating in that process; (iii) an order directing the defendants to comply with the Century/ML Cable joint venture agreement with respect to provisions relating to governance matters and the budget process; and (iv) compensatory and punitive damages. The parties negotiated a consent order that imposed various consultative and reporting requirements on Adelphia and Century as well as restrictions on Century's ability to make capital expenditures without ML Media's approval. Adelphia and Century were held in contempt of that order in early 2001.
 
In connection with the December 13, 2001 settlement of the above dispute, Adelphia, Century/ML Cable, ML Media and Highland, entered into the Recap Agreement, pursuant to which Century/ML Cable agreed to redeem ML Media's 50% interest in Century/ML Cable on or before September 30, 2002 for a purchase price between
 
 
 
 
 
$275,000,000 and $279,800,000 depending on the timing of the Redemption, plus interest. Among other things, the Recap Agreement provided that: (i) Highland would arrange debt financing for the Redemption; (ii) Highland, Adelphia and Century would jointly and severally guarantee debt service on debt financing for the Redemption on and after the closing of the Redemption; and (iii) Highland and Century would own 60% and 40% interests, respectively, in the recapitalized Century/ML Cable. Under the terms of the Recap Agreement, Century's 50% interest in Century/ML Cable was pledged to ML Media as collateral for the Company's obligations.
 
On September 30, 2002, Century/ML Cable filed a voluntary petition to reorganize under Chapter 11 in the Bankruptcy Court. Century/ML Cable was operating its business as a
debtor-in-possession.
 
By an order of the Bankruptcy Court dated September 17, 2003, Adelphia and Century rejected the Recap Agreement, effective as of such date. If the Recap Agreement is enforceable, the effect of the rejection of the Recap Agreement is the same as a pre-petition breach of the Recap Agreement. Therefore, Adelphia and Century are potentially exposed to "rejection damages," which may include the revival of ML Media's claims under the state court actions described above.
 
Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML Cable and ML Media are engaged in litigation regarding the enforceability of the Recap Agreement. On April 15, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court indicated that it would dismiss all counts of Adelphia's challenge to the enforceability of the Recap Agreement except for its allegation that ML Media aided and abetted a breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the execution of the Recap Agreement. The Bankruptcy Court also indicated that it would allow Century/ML Cable's counterclaim to avoid the Recap Agreement as a constructive fraudulent conveyance to proceed.
 
ML Media has alleged that it is entitled to elect recovery of either $279,800,000, plus costs and interest in exchange for its interest in Century/ML Cable, or up to the difference between $279,800,000 and the fair market value of its interest in Century/ML Cable, plus costs, interest and revival of the state court claims described above. Adelphia, Century and Century/ML Cable have disputed ML Media's claims, and the Plan contemplates that ML Media will receive no distribution until such dispute is resolved.
 
On June 3, 2005, Century entered into the IAA, pursuant to which Century and ML Media agreed to sell their interests in Century/ML Cable for $520,000,000 (subject to potential purchase price adjustments as defined in the IAA) to San Juan Cable. On August 9, 2005, Century/ML Cable filed the Century/ML Plan and the Century/ML Disclosure Statement with the Bankruptcy Court. On August 18, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Century/ML Disclosure Statement. On September 7, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Century/ML Plan, which is designed to satisfy the conditions of the IAA with San Juan Cable and provides that all third-party claims will either be paid in full or assumed by San Juan Cable under the terms set forth in the IAA. On October 31, 2005, the Century/ML Sale was consummated and the Century/ML Plan became effective. Neither the Century/ML Sale nor the effectiveness of the Century/ML Plan resolves the pending litigation among Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML Cable and ML Media. Pursuant to the IAA and the Century/ML Plan, Adelphia was granted control over Century/ML Cable's counterclaims in the litigation. Adelphia has since withdrawn Century/ML Cable's counterclaim to avoid the Recap Agreement as a constructive fraudulent conveyance. On November 23, 2005, Adelphia and Century filed their first amended answer, affirmative defenses and counterclaims. On January 13, 2006, ML Media replied to Adelphia's and Century's amended counterclaims and moved for summary judgment against Adelphia and Century on both Adelphia's and Century's remaining counterclaims and the issue of Adelphia's and Century's liability. Adelphia and Century filed their response to ML Media's summary judgment motion, as well as cross-motions for summary judgment, on March 13, 2006.
 
On March 9, 2006, Highland filed a motion to withdraw the reference, which, if granted, would transfer the litigation among Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML Cable and ML Media from the Bankruptcy Court to the District Court.
 
 
 
 
 
On March 16, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court stayed all discovery for 30 days (except for certain expert depositions). Adelphia and Century have the right to seek to renew the stay.
 
The Bankruptcy Court has tentatively scheduled trial to begin on June 26, 2006.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On December 29, 2003, the Ad Hoc Committee of holders of Adelphia's 6% and 3.25% convertible subordinated notes (collectively, the "Subordinated Notes"), together with the Bank of New York, the indenture trustee for the Subordinated Notes (collectively, the "X Clause Plaintiffs"), commenced an adversary proceeding against Adelphia in the Bankruptcy Court. The X Clause Plaintiffs' complaint sought a judgment declaring that the subordination provisions in the indentures for the Subordinated Notes were not applicable to an Adelphia plan of reorganization in which constituents receive common stock of Adelphia and that the Subordinated Notes are entitled to share pari passu in the distribution of any common stock of Adelphia given to holders of senior notes of Adelphia.
The X Clause Litigation.
 
The basis for the X Clause Plaintiffs' claim is a provision in the applicable indentures, commonly known as the "X Clause," which provides that any distributions under a plan of reorganization comprised solely of "Permitted Junior Securities" are not subject to the subordination provision of the Subordinated Notes indenture. The X Clause Plaintiffs asserted that, under their interpretation of the applicable indentures, a distribution of a single class of new common stock of Adelphia would meet the definition of "Permitted Junior Securities" set forth in the indentures, and therefore be exempt from subordination.
 
On February 6, 2004, Adelphia filed its answer to the complaint, denying all of its substantive allegations. Thereafter, both the X Clause Plaintiffs and Adelphia cross-moved for summary judgment with both parties arguing that their interpretation of the X Clause was correct as a matter of law. The indenture trustee for the Adelphia senior notes also intervened in the action and, like Adelphia, moved for summary judgment arguing that the X Clause Plaintiffs were subordinated to holders of senior notes with respect to any distribution of common stock under a plan of reorganization. In addition, the Creditors' Committee also moved to intervene and, thereafter, moved to dismiss the X Clause Plaintiffs' complaint on the grounds, among others, that it did not present a justiciable case or controversy and therefore was not ripe for adjudication. In a written decision, dated April 12, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court granted the Creditors' Committee's motion to dismiss without ruling on the merits of the various cross-motions for summary judgment. The Bankruptcy Court's dismissal of the action was without prejudice to the X Clause Plaintiffs' right to bring the action at a later date, if appropriate.
 
Subsequent to entering into the Sale Transaction, the X Clause Plaintiffs asserted that the subordination provisions in the indentures for the Subordinated Notes also are not applicable to an Adelphia plan of reorganization in which constituents receive TWC Class A Common Stock and that the Subordinated Notes would therefore be entitled to share pari passu in the distribution of any such TWC Class A Common Stock given to holders of senior notes of Adelphia. The indenture trustee for the Adelphia senior notes (the "Senior Notes Trustee"), together with certain other constituents, disputed this position.
 
On December 6, 2005, the X Clause Plaintiffs and the Debtors jointly filed a motion seeking that the Bankruptcy Court establish a pre-confirmation process for interested parties to litigate the X Clause dispute (the "X Clause Litigation Motion"). By order dated January 11, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court found that the X Clause dispute was ripe for adjudication and directed interested parties to litigate the dispute prior to plan confirmation (the "X Litigation"). A hearing on the X Litigation was held on March 9 and 10, 2006. The matter is now under review by the Bankruptcy Court.
Clause Pre-Confirmation
Clause Pre-Confirmation
 
 
 
 
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On March 20, 2002, the Company commenced an action (the "California Cablevision Action") in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Western Division, seeking, among other things, declaratory and injunctive relief precluding the City of Thousand Oaks, California (the "City") from denying permits on the grounds that the Company failed to seek the City's prior approval of an asset purchase agreement (the "Asset Purchase Agreement"), dated December 17, 2001, between the Company and Verizon Media Ventures, Inc. d/b/a Verizon Americast ("Verizon Media Ventures"). Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, the Company acquired certain Verizon Media Ventures cable equipment and network system assets (the "Verizon Cable Assets") located in the City for use in the operation of the Company's cable business in the City.
Verizon Franchise Transfer Litigation.
 
On March 25, 2002, the City and Ventura County (the "County") commenced an action (the "Thousand Oaks Action") against the Company and Verizon Media Ventures in California State Court alleging that Verizon Media Ventures' entry into the Asset Purchase Agreement and conveyance of the Verizon Cable Assets constituted a breach of Verizon Media Ventures' cable franchises and that the Company's participation in the transaction amounted to actionable tortious interference with those franchises. The City and the County sought injunctive relief to halt the sale and transfer of the Verizon Cable Assets pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement and to compel the Company to treat the Verizon Cable Assets as a separate cable system.
 
On March 27, 2002, the Company and Verizon Media Ventures removed the Thousand Oaks Action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California, where it was consolidated with the California Cablevision Action.
 
On April 12, 2002, the district court conducted a hearing on the City's and County's application for a preliminary injunction and, on April 15, 2002, the district court issued a temporary restraining order in part, pending entry of a further order. On May 14, 2002, the district court issued a preliminary injunction and entered findings of fact and conclusions of law in support thereof (the "May 14, 2002 Order"). The May 14, 2002 Order, among other things: (i) enjoined the Company from integrating the Company's and Verizon Media Ventures' system assets serving subscribers in the City and the County; (ii) required the Company to return "ownership" of the Verizon Cable Assets to Verizon Media Ventures except that the Company was permitted to continue to "manage" the assets as Verizon Media Ventures' agent to the extent necessary to avoid disruption in services until Verizon Media Ventures chose to reenter the market or sell the assets; (iii) prohibited the Company from eliminating any programming options that had previously been selected by Verizon Media Ventures or from raising the rates charged by Verizon Media Ventures; and (iv) required the Company and Verizon Media Ventures to grant the City the County access to system records, contracts, personnel and facilities for the purpose of conducting an inspection of the then-current "state of the Verizon Media Ventures and the Company systems" in the City and the County. The Company appealed the May 14, 2002 Order and, on April 1, 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the May 14, 2002 Order, thus removing any restrictions that had been imposed by the district court against the Company's integration of the Verizon Cable Assets and remanded the actions back to the district court for further proceedings.
and/or
 
In September 2003, the City began refusing to grant the Company's construction permit requests, claiming that the Company could not integrate the acquired Verizon Cable Assets with the Company's existing cable system assets because the City had not approved the transaction between the Company and Verizon Media Ventures, as allegedly required under the City's cable ordinance.
 
Accordingly, on October 2, 2003, the Company filed a motion for a preliminary injunction in the district court seeking to enjoin the City from refusing to grant the Company's construction permit requests. On November 3,
 
 
 
 
 
2003, the district court granted the Company's motion for a preliminary injunction, finding that the Company had demonstrated "a strong likelihood of success on the merits." Thereafter, the parties agreed to informally stay the litigation pending negotiations between the Company and the City for the Company's renewal of its cable franchise, with the intent that such negotiations would also lead to a settlement of the pending litigation. However, on September 16, 2004, at the City's request, the court set certain procedural dates, including a trial date of July 12, 2005, which has effectively re-opened the case to active litigation. Subsequently, the July 12, 2005 trial date was vacated pursuant to a stipulation and order. On July 11, 2005, the district court referred the matter to a United States magistrate judge for settlement discussions. A settlement conference was held on October 20, 2005, before the magistrate judge. On February 21, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court approved a settlement between the Company and the City that resolves the pending litigation and all past franchise non-compliance issues. Pursuant to the settlement, the parties filed a stipulation that dismissed with prejudice the Thousand Oaks Action as it pertained to the City. On March 27, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court approved a settlement between the Company and the County that resolves the pending litigation and all past franchise non-compliance issues. Pursuant to the settlement, the parties will file a stipulation that dismisses, with prejudice, the Thousand Oaks Action as it pertains to the County.
 
  On or about August 30, 2002, Gerald Dibbern, individually and purportedly on behalf of a class of similarly situated subscribers nationwide, commenced an adversary proceeding in the Bankruptcy Court against Adelphia asserting claims for violation of the Pennsylvania Consumer Protection Law, breach of contract, fraud, unjust enrichment, constructive trust, and an accounting. This complaint alleges that Adelphia charged, and continues to charge, subscribers for cable set-top box equipment, including set-top boxes and remote controls, that is unnecessary for subscribers that receive only basic cable service and have cable-ready televisions. The complaint further alleges that Adelphia failed to adequately notify affected subscribers that they no longer needed to rent this equipment. The complaint seeks a number of remedies including treble money damages under the Pennsylvania Consumer Protection Law, declaratory and injunctive relief, imposition of a constructive trust on Adelphia's assets, and punitive damages, together with costs and attorneys' fees.
Dibbern Adversary Proceeding.
 
On or about December 13, 2002, Adelphia moved to dismiss the adversary proceeding on several bases, including that the complaint fails to state a claim for which relief can be granted and that the matters alleged therein should be resolved in the claims process. The Bankruptcy Court granted Adelphia's motion to dismiss and dismissed the adversary proceeding on May 3, 2005. In the Bankruptcy Court, Mr. Dibbern has also objected to the provisional disallowance of his proofs of claim, which comprised a portion of the Bankruptcy Court's May 3, 2005 order. Mr. Dibbern appealed the May 3, 2005 order dismissing adversary proceedings to the District Court. In an August 30, 2005 decision, the District Court affirmed the dismissal of Mr. Dibbern's claims for violation of the Pennsylvania Consumer Protection Law, a constructive trust and an accounting, but reversed the dismissal of Mr. Dibbern's breach of contract, fraud and unjust enrichment claims. These three claims will proceed in the Bankruptcy Court. Adelphia filed its answer on October 14, 2005 and discovery commenced. On March 15, 2006, the Debtors moved the Bankruptcy Court for an order staying discovery in several adversary proceedings, including the Dibbern adversary proceeding. On March 16, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court granted the order staying discovery in the Dibbern adversary proceeding.
 
On January 17, 2006, the Debtors filed their tenth omnibus claims objection to certain claims, including claims filed by Dibbern totaling more than $7.9 billion (including duplicative claims). Through the objections, the Debtors sought to disallow and expunge each of the Dibbern claims. On February 23, 2006, Dibbern responded to the Debtors' objections and requested that the Bankruptcy Court require the Debtors to establish additional reserves for Dibbern's claims or to reclassify the claims as claims against the operating companies.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
  By motion filed in the Bankruptcy Court on August 5, 2004, Tele-Media Corporation of Delaware ("TMCD") and certain of its affiliates sought the appointment of an examiner for the following Debtors: Tele-Media Company of Tri-States, L.P., CMA Cablevision Associates VII, L.P., CMA Cablevision Associates XI, L.P., TMC Holdings Corporation, Adelphia Company of Western Connecticut, TMC Holdings, LLC, Tele-Media Investment Limited Partnership, L. P., Eastern Virginia Cablevision, L.P., Tele-Media Company of Hopewell Prince George, and Eastern Virginia Cablevision Holdings, LLC (collectively, the "JV Entities"). Among other things, TMCD alleged that management and the Board breached their fiduciary obligations to the creditors and equity holders of those entities. Consequently, TMCD sought the appointment of an examiner to investigate and make recommendations to the Bankruptcy Court regarding various issues related to such entities.
Tele-Media Examiner Motion.
 
On April 14, 2005, the Debtors filed a motion with the Bankruptcy Court seeking approval of a global settlement agreement (the "Tele-Media Settlement Agreement") by and among the Debtors and TMCD and certain of its affiliates (the "Tele-Media Parties"), which, among other things: (i) transfers the Tele-Media Parties' ownership interests in the JV Entities to the Debtors, leaving the Debtors 100% ownership of the JV Entities; (ii) requires the Debtors to make a settlement payment to the Tele-Media Parties of $21,650,000; (iii) resolves the above-mentioned examiner motion; (iv) settles two pending avoidance actions brought by the Debtors against certain of the Tele-Media Parties; (v) reconciles 691 separate proofs of claim filed by the Tele-Media Parties, thereby allowing claims worth approximately $5,500,000 and disallowing approximately $1.9 billion of claims; (vi) requires the Tele-Media Parties to make a $912,500 payment to the Debtors related to workers' compensation policies; and (vii) effectuates mutual releases between the Debtors and the Tele-Media Parties. The Tele-Media Settlement Agreement was approved by an order of the Bankruptcy Court dated May 11, 2005 and closed on May 26, 2005.
 
  Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Court order approving the DIP Facility (the "Final DIP Order"), the Company made certain acknowledgments (the "Acknowledgments") with respect to the extent of its indebtedness under the pre-petition credit facilities, as well as the validity and extent of the liens and claims of the lenders under such facilities. However, given the circumstances surrounding the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Final DIP Order preserved the Debtors' right to prosecute, among other things, avoidance actions and claims against the pre-petition lenders and to bring litigation against the pre-petition lenders based on any wrongful conduct. The Final DIP Order also provided that any official committee appointed in the Chapter 11 Cases would have the right to request that it be granted standing by the Bankruptcy Court to challenge the Acknowledgments and to bring claims belonging to the Company and its estates against the pre-petition lenders.
Creditors' Committee Lawsuit Against Pre-Petition Banks.
 
Pursuant to a stipulation dated July 2, 2003, among the Debtors, the Creditors' Committee and the Equity Committee, the parties agreed, subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court, that the Creditors' Committee would have derivative standing to file and prosecute claims against the pre-petition lenders, on behalf of the Debtors, and granted the Equity Committee leave to seek to intervene in any such action. This stipulation also preserves the Company's ability to compromise and settle the claims against the pre-petition lenders. By motion dated July 6, 2003, the Creditors' Committee moved for Bankruptcy Court approval of this stipulation and simultaneously filed a complaint (the "Bank Complaint") against the agents and lenders under certain pre-petition credit facilities, and related entities, asserting, among other things, that these entities knew of, and participated in, the alleged improper actions by certain members of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities (the "Pre-petition Lender Litigation"). The Debtors are nominal plaintiffs in this action.
 
The Bank Complaint contains 52 claims for relief to redress the claimed wrongs and abuses committed by the agents, lenders and other entities. The Bank Complaint seeks to, among other things: (i) recover as fraudulent transfers the principal and interest paid by the Company to the defendants; (ii) avoid as fraudulent obligations the
 
 
 
 
 
Company's obligations, if any, to repay the defendants; (iii) recover damages for breaches of fiduciary duties to the Company and for aiding and abetting fraud and breaches of fiduciary duties by the Rigas Family; (iv) equitably disallow, subordinate or recharacterize each of the defendants' claims in the Chapter 11 Cases; (v) avoid and recover certain allegedly preferential transfers made to certain defendants; and (vi) recover damages for violations of the Bank Holding Company Act. Numerous motions seeking to defeat the Pre-petition Lender Litigation were filed by the defendants and the Bankruptcy Court held a hearing on such issues. The Equity Committee filed a motion seeking authority to bring an intervenor complaint (the "Intervenor Complaint") against the defendants seeking to, among other things, assert additional contract claims against the investment banking affiliates of the agent banks and claims under the RICO Act against various defendants (the "Additional Claims").
 
On October 3 and November 7, 2003, certain of the defendants filed both objections to approval of the stipulation and motions to dismiss the bulk of the claims for relief contained in the Bank Complaint and the Intervenor Complaint. The Bankruptcy Court heard oral argument on these objections and motions on December 20 and 21, 2004. In a memorandum decision dated August 30, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court granted the motion of the Creditors' Committee for standing to prosecute the claims asserted by the Creditors' Committee. The Bankruptcy Court also granted a separate motion of the Equity Committee to file and prosecute the Additional Claims on behalf of the Debtors. The motions to dismiss are still pending. Subsequent to issuance of this decision, several defendants filed, among other things, motions to transfer the Pre-petition Lender Litigation from the Bankruptcy Court to the District Court. By order dated February 9, 2006, the Pre-petition Lender Litigation was transferred to the District Court, except with respect to the pending motions to dismiss.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  By complaint dated September 29, 2005, certain non-agent pre-petition lenders of the Debtors sought a declaratory judgment against the Debtors in the Bankruptcy Court seeking, among other things, the enforcement of asserted indemnification rights and rights to fees and expenses. The non-agent pre-petition lenders subsequently withdrew their complaint.
Non-Agent Banks' Declaratory Judgment.
 
  Pursuant to the Agreement of Limited Partnership of Devon Mobile Communications, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Devon Mobile"), dated as of November 3, 1995, the Company owned a 49.9% limited partnership interest in Devon Mobile, which, through its subsidiaries, held licenses to operate regional wireless telephone businesses in several states. Devon Mobile had certain business and contractual relationships with the Company and with former subsidiaries or divisions of the Company, that were spun off as TelCove in January 2002.
Devon Mobile Claim.
 
In late May 2002, the Company notified Devon G.P., Inc. ("Devon G.P."), the general partner of Devon Mobile, that it would likely terminate certain discretionary operational funding to Devon Mobile. On August 19, 2002, Devon Mobile and certain of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the "Devon Mobile Bankruptcy Court").
 
On January 17, 2003, the Company filed proofs of claim and interest against Devon Mobile and its subsidiaries for approximately $129,000,000 in debt and equity claims, as well as an additional claim of approximately $35,000,000 relating to the Company's guarantee of certain Devon Mobile obligations (collectively, the "Company Claims"). By order dated October 1, 2003, the Devon Mobile Bankruptcy Court confirmed Devon Mobile's First Amended Joint Plan of Liquidation (the "Devon Plan"). The Devon Plan became effective on October 17, 2003, at which time the Company's limited partnership interest in Devon Mobile was extinguished. Under the Devon Plan, the Devon Mobile Communications Liquidating Trust (the "Devon Liquidating Trust") succeeded to all of the rights of Devon Mobile, including prosecution of causes of action against Adelphia.
 
 
 
 
 
On or about January 8, 2004, the Devon Liquidating Trust filed proofs of claim in the Chapter 11 Cases seeking, in the aggregate, approximately $100,000,000 in respect of, among other things, certain cash transfers alleged to be either preferential or fraudulent and claims for deepening insolvency, alter ego liability and breach of an alleged duty to fund Devon Mobile operations, all of which arose prior to the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases (the "Devon Claims"). On June 21, 2004, the Devon Liquidating Trust commenced an adversary proceeding in the Chapter 11 Cases (the "Devon Adversary Proceeding") through the filing of a complaint (the "Devon Complaint") which incorporates the Devon Claims. On August 20, 2004, the Company filed an answer and counterclaim in response to the Devon Complaint denying the allegations made in the Devon Complaint and asserting various counterclaims against the Devon Liquidating Trust, which encompassed the Company Claims. On November 22, 2004, the Company filed a motion for leave (the "Motion for Leave") to file a third party complaint for contribution and indemnification against Devon G.P. and Lisa-Gaye Shearing Mead, the sole owner and President of Devon G.P. By endorsed order entered January 12, 2005, Judge Robert E. Gerber, the judge presiding over the Chapter 11 Cases and the Devon Adversary Proceeding, granted a recusal request made by counsel to Devon G.P. On January 21, 2005, the Devon Adversary Proceeding was reassigned from Judge Gerber to Judge Cecelia G. Morris. By an order dated April 5, 2005, Judge Morris denied the Motion for Leave and a subsequent motion for reconsideration.
 
Discovery closed and the parties filed cross-motions for summary judgment. On March 6, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court issued a memorandum decision granting Adelphia summary judgment on all counts of the Devon Complaint, except for the fraudulent conveyance/breach of limited partnership claim. The Bankruptcy Court denied, in its entirety, the summary judgment motion filed by the Devon Liquidating Trust. Trial is scheduled to begin April 17, 2006.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On January 13, 2003, Niagara Frontier Hockey, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership owned by the Rigas Family ("NFHLP") and certain of its subsidiaries (the "NFHLP Debtors") filed voluntary petitions to reorganize under Chapter 11 in the United States Bankruptcy Court of the Western District of New York (the "NFHLP Bankruptcy Court") seeking protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws. Certain of the NFHLP Debtors entered into an agreement dated March 13, 2003 for the sale of certain assets, including the Buffalo Sabres National Hockey League team, and the assumption of certain liabilities. On October 3, 2003, the NFHLP Bankruptcy Court approved the NFHLP joint plan of liquidation. The NFHLP Debtors filed a complaint, dated November 4, 2003, against, among others, Adelphia and the Creditors' Committee seeking to enforce certain prior stipulations and orders of the NFHLP Bankruptcy Court against Adelphia and the Creditors' Committee related to the waiver of Adelphia's right to participate in certain sale proceeds resulting from the sale of assets. Certain of the NFHLP Debtors' pre-petition lenders, which are also defendants in the adversary proceeding, have filed cross-complaints against Adelphia and the Creditors' Committee asking the NFHLP Bankruptcy Court to enjoin Adelphia and the Creditors' Committee from prosecuting their claims against those pre-petition lenders. Although proceedings as to the complaint itself have been suspended, the parties have continued to litigate the cross-complaints. Discovery closed on November 1, 2005 and motions for summary judgment were filed on January 24, 2006, with additional briefing on the motions to follow.
NFHLP Claim.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On November 6, 2002, Adelphia sued Deloitte & Touche LLP ("Deloitte"), Adelphia's former independent auditors, in the Court of Common Pleas for Philadelphia County. The lawsuit seeks damages against Deloitte based on Deloitte's alleged failure to conduct an audit in compliance
Adelphia's Lawsuit Against Deloitte.
 
 
 
 
 
with generally accepted auditing standards, and for providing an opinion that Adelphia's financial statements conformed with GAAP when Deloitte allegedly knew or should have known that they did not conform. The complaint further alleges that Deloitte knew or should have known of alleged misconduct and misappropriation by the Rigas Family, and other alleged acts of self-dealing, but failed to report these alleged misdeeds to the Board or others who could have and would have stopped the Rigas Family's misconduct. The complaint raises claims of professional negligence, breach of contract, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation and contribution.
 
Deloitte filed preliminary objections seeking to dismiss the complaint, which were overruled by the court by order dated June 11, 2003. On September 15, 2003, Deloitte filed an answer, a new matter and various counterclaims in response to the complaint. In its counterclaims, Deloitte asserted causes of action against Adelphia for breach of contract, fraud, negligent misrepresentation and contribution. Also on September 15, 2003, Deloitte filed a related complaint naming as additional defendants John J. Rigas, Timothy J. Rigas, Michael J. Rigas, and James P. Rigas. In this complaint, Deloitte alleges causes of action for fraud, negligent misrepresentation and contribution. The Rigas defendants, in turn, have claimed a right to contribution indemnity from Adelphia for any damages Deloitte may recover against the Rigas defendants. On January 9, 2004, Adelphia answered Deloitte's counterclaims. Deloitte moved to stay discovery in this action until completion of the Rigas Criminal Action, which Adelphia opposed. Following the motion, discovery was effectively stayed for 60 days but has now commenced. Deloitte and Adelphia have exchanged documents and have begun substantive discovery. On December 6, 2005, the court extended the discovery deadline to June 5, 2006 and ordered that the case be ready for trial by October 2, 2006.
and/or
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  Substantial disputes exist between creditors of different Debtors that principally affect the recoveries to the holders of certain notes due September 15, 2007 issued by FrontierVision Holdings, L.P., an indirect subsidiary of Adelphia, and the creditors of Arahova and Adelphia (the "Inter-Creditor Dispute"). On November 7, 2005, the ad hoc committee of Arahova noteholders (the "Arahova Noteholders' Committee") filed four emergency motions for relief with the Bankruptcy Court seeking, among other things, to: (i) appoint a trustee for Arahova and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Arahova/Century Debtors") who may not receive payment in full under the Plan or, alternatively, appoint independent officers and directors, with the assistance of separately retained counsel, to represent the Arahova/Century Debtors in connection with the Inter-Creditor Dispute; (ii) disqualify Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP ("WF&G") from representing the Arahova/Century Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases and the balance of the Debtors with respect to the Inter-Creditor Dispute; (iii) terminate the exclusive periods during which the Arahova/Century Debtors may file and solicit acceptances of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization and related disclosure statement (the previous three motions, the "Arahova Emergency Motions"); and (iv) authorize the Arahova Noteholders' Committee to file confidential supplements containing certain information. The Bankruptcy Court held a sealed hearing on the Arahova Emergency Motions on January 4, 5 and 6, 2006.
Arahova Motions.
 
Pursuant to an order dated January 26, 2006 (the "Arahova Order"), the Bankruptcy Court: (i) denied the motion to terminate the Arahova/Century Debtors' exclusivity; (ii) denied the motion to appoint a trustee for the Arahova/Century Debtors, or, alternatively, to require the appointment of nonstatutory fiduciaries; and (iii) granted the motion for an order disqualifying WF&G from representing the Arahova/Century Debtors and any of the other Debtors in the Inter-Creditor Dispute; without finding that present management or WF&G have in any way acted inappropriately to date, the Bankruptcy Court found that WF&G's voluntary neutrality in such disputes should be mandatory, except that the Bankruptcy Court stated that WF&G could continue to act as a facilitator privately to assist creditor groups that are parties to the Inter-Creditor Dispute reach a settlement. The Bankruptcy Court issued an extensive written decision on these matters. The Arahova Noteholders' Committee has appealed the Arahova Order to the District Court.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On October 29, 2004, Adelphia filed a motion to postpone the conversion of the Series E Preferred Stock into shares of Class A Common Stock from November 15, 2004 to February 1, 2005, to the extent such conversion was not already stayed by the Debtors' bankruptcy filing, in order to protect the Debtors' net operating loss carryovers. On November 18, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the postponement effective November 14, 2004.
Series E and F Preferred Stock Conversion Postponements.
 
Adelphia has subsequently entered into several stipulations further postponing, to the extent applicable, the conversion date of the Series E Preferred Stock. Adelphia has also entered into several stipulations postponing, to the extent applicable, the conversion date of the Series F Preferred Stock, which was initially convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock on February 1, 2005.
 
  On June 2, 2004, the Company orally self-disclosed potential violations of environmental laws to the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") pursuant to EPA's Audit Policy, and notified EPA that it intended to conduct an audit of its operations to identify and correct any such violations. The potential violations primarily concern reporting and record keeping requirements arising from the Company's storage and use of petroleum and batteries to provide backup power for its cable operations. Based on current facts, the Company does not anticipate that this matter will have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition.
EPA Self Disclosure and Audit.
 
  The Company is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Management believes, based on information currently available, that the amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to any of these other actions will not materially affect the Company's financial position or results of operations.
Other.
 
 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 
The table below sets forth the Company's supplemental cash flow information (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Significant non-cash investing and financing activities are summarized in the table below. The summarized information in the table should be read in conjunction with the more detailed information included in the referenced note (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Note 17:   Information (Continued)
 
Cost and Other Investments
 
The Company's investments in securities, common stock and other cost investments aggregated $10,135,000 and $3,569,000 at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively and are included in other noncurrent assets, net in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
available-for-sale
 
The fair value of the Company's equity securities and the related unrealized holding gains and losses are summarized below. Such unrealized gains and losses are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (amounts in thousands):
available-for-sale
 
 
The Company recognized impairment losses as a result of declines in the fair value of the Company's investments in securities, common stock and other cost investments of $7,000, $3,801,000 and $8,544,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company recognized gains of $1,595,000, $292,000 and $3,574,000 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, related to the sale of cost and other investments. Such impairments and gains are reflected in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
other-than-temporary
available-for-sale
 
Accrued Liabilities
 
The details of accrued liabilities are set forth below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Note 17:   Information (Continued)
 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net included in the Company's consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of stockholders' equity reflect the aggregate of foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized holding gains and losses on securities. The change in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, is set forth below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Transactions With Other Officers and Directors
 
In a letter agreement between Adelphia and FPL Group, Inc. ("FPL Group") dated January 21, 1999, Adelphia agreed to (i) repurchase 20,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock and 1,091,524 shares of Class A Common Stock owned by Telesat Cablevision, Inc., a subsidiary of FPL Group ("Telesat") and (ii) transfer all of the outstanding common stock of West Boca Security, Inc. ("WB Security"), a subsidiary of Olympus Communications, L.P. ("Olympus"), to FPL Group in exchange for FPL Group's 50% voting interest and 1/3 economic interest in Olympus. The Company owned the economic and voting interests in Olympus that were not then owned by FPL Group. At the time this agreement was entered into, Dennis Coyle, then a member of the Adelphia board of directors, was the General Counsel and Secretary of FPL Group. WB Security was a subsidiary of Olympus and WB Security's sole asset was a $108,000,000 note receivable (the "WB Note") from a subsidiary of Olympus that was secured by the FPL Group's ownership interest in Olympus and due September 1, 2004. On January 29, 1999, Adelphia purchased all of the aforementioned shares of Series C Preferred Stock and Class A Common Stock described above from Telesat for aggregate cash consideration of $149,213,000, and on October 1, 1999, the Company acquired FPL Group's interest in Olympus in exchange for all of the outstanding common stock of WB Security. The acquired shares of Class A Common Stock are presented as treasury stock in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The acquired shares of Series C Preferred Stock were returned to their original status of authorized but unissued. On June 24, 2004, the Creditors' Committee filed an adversary proceeding in the Bankruptcy Court, among other things, to avoid, recover and preserve the cash paid by Adelphia pursuant to the repurchase of its Series C Preferred Stock and Class A Common Stock together with all interest paid with respect to such repurchase. A hearing date relating to such adversary proceeding has not yet been set. Interest on the WB Note is calculated at a rate of 6% per annum (or after default at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 5%). FPL Group has the right, upon at least 60 days prior written notice, to require repayment of the principal and accrued interest on the WB Note on or after July 1, 2002. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the aggregate principal and interest due to the FPL Group pursuant to the WB Note was $127,537,000. The Company has not accrued interest on the WB Note for periods subsequent to the Petition Date. To date, the Company has not yet received a notice from FPL Group requiring the repayment of the WB Note.
 
 
 
 
Note 17:   Information (Continued)
 
From May 2002 until July 2003, the Company engaged Conway, Del Genio, Gries & Co., LLC ("CDGC") to provide certain restructuring services pursuant to an engagement letter dated May 21, 2002 (the "Conway Engagement Letter"). During that time, Ronald F. Stengel, Adelphia's former and interim Chief Operating Officer and Chief Restructuring Officer, was a Senior Managing Director of CDGC. The Conway Engagement Letter provided for Mr. Stengel's services to Adelphia while remaining a full-time employee of CDGC. In addition, other employees of CDGC were assigned to assist Mr. Stengel in connection with the Conway Engagement Letter. Pursuant to the Conway Engagement Letter, the Company paid CDGC a total of $2,827,000 for its services in 2003 (which includes the services of Mr. Stengel). The Company also paid CDGC a total of $104,000 in 2003 for reimbursement of CDGC's out-of pocket expenses incurred in connection with the engagement. These amounts are included in reorganization expenses due to bankruptcy in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
Sale of Security Monitoring Business
 
In November 2004, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to sell its security monitoring business in Pennsylvania, Florida and New York. Such sale was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on January 28, 2005 and closed on February 28, 2005. The adjusted purchase price was $37,900,000. The Company recognized a $4,500,000 gain on this transaction during the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of June 30, 2006, the Company was engaged primarily in the cable television business. On June 25, 2002 (the "Petition Date"), Adelphia and substantially all of its domestic subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions to reorganize (the "Chapter 11 Cases") under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. On June 10, 2002, Century Communications Corporation ("Century"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Adelphia, filed a voluntary petition to reorganize under Chapter 11. On October 6 and November 15, 2005, certain additional subsidiaries of Adelphia also filed voluntary petitions to reorganize under Chapter 11. On March 31, 2006, the Forfeited Entities (defined below) and certain other entities filed voluntary petitions to reorganize under Chapter 11. The bankruptcy proceedings for Century and the subsequent filers are being jointly administered with Adelphia and substantially all of its domestic subsidiaries (the "Debtors") and are included in the Chapter 11 Cases. The Debtors are currently operating their businesses as under Chapter 11. On July 31, 2006, Adelphia completed the sale of assets, which in the aggregate comprise substantially all of its U.S. assets, to TW NY and Comcast. For additional information, see Note 2.
debtors-in-possession
 
In May 2002, certain members of the Rigas Family resigned from their positions as directors and executive officers of the Company. In addition, although the Rigas Family owned Adelphia $0.01 par value Class A common stock ("Class A Common Stock") and Adelphia $0.01 par value Class B common stock ("Class B Common Stock") with a majority of the voting power in Adelphia, the Rigas Family was not able to exercise such voting power since the Debtors filed for protection under the Bankruptcy Code in June 2002. Prior to May 2002, the Company engaged in numerous transactions that directly or indirectly involved members of the Rigas Family and entities in which members of the Rigas Family directly or indirectly held controlling interests (collectively, the "Rigas Family Entities"). The Rigas Family Entities include certain cable television entities formerly owned by the Rigas Family that are subject to co-borrowing arrangements with the Company, including Coudersport Television Cable Co. ("Coudersport") and Bucktail Broadcasting Corp. ("Bucktail") (collectively, the "Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities"), as well as other Rigas Family entities (the "Other Rigas Entities").
 
On March 29, 2006, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the "District Court") entered various orders of forfeiture (the "RME Forfeiture Orders") pursuant to which on March 29, 2006, all right, title and interest in the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail) (the "Forfeited Entities") held by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities prior to the District Court's order dated June 8, 2005 (the "Forfeiture Order") were transferred to certain subsidiaries of the Company free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances and adverse interests in accordance with the RME Forfeiture Orders, subject to certain limitations set forth in the RME Forfeiture Orders. On July 28, 2006, the District Court entered various orders of forfeiture (the "Real Property Forfeiture Orders") pursuant to which all right, title and interest previously held by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities in certain specified real estate and other property were transferred to certain subsidiaries of the Company free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances and adverse interests in accordance with the Real Property Forfeiture Orders, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Real Property Forfeiture Orders. The transfer of all right, title and interest previously held by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities in any of the Company's securities in furtherance of the agreement between the Company and the U.S. Attorney dated April 25, 2005 (the "Non-Prosecution Agreement"), as further discussed in Note 8, is expected to occur in accordance with separate, subsequent court documentation.
 
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for interim financial information and the rules and regulations of the SEC. Accordingly, certain information and footnote disclosures typically included in the Company's financial statements filed with its Annual Report on have been condensed or omitted for this Quarterly Report. In the opinion of management, the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, which consist of only normal recurring adjustments,
Form 10-K
 
 
 
 
 
necessary for a fair presentation of the results for the periods presented. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2005 Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year.
Form 10-K.
 
These condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes continuity of operations, realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business, and do not purport to show, reflect or provide for the consequences of the Chapter 11 Cases or the Sale Transaction. In particular, these condensed consolidated financial statements do not purport to show: (i) as to assets, the amount realized upon their sale or their availability to satisfy liabilities; (ii) as to pre-petition liabilities, the amounts at which claims or contingencies may be settled, or the status and priority thereof; (iii) as to stockholders' equity accounts, the effect of any changes that may be made in the capitalization of the Company; or (iv) as to operations, the effect of the Sale Transaction. As a result of the Sale Transaction, the Company disposed of substantially all of its operating assets and expects to adopt a liquidation basis of accounting in the third quarter of 2006. Upon adoption of a liquidation basis of accounting, assets will be recorded at their estimated realizable amounts and liabilities that will be paid in full will be recorded at the present value of amounts to be paid. Liabilities subject to compromise will be recorded at their face amounts until they are settled, at which time they will be adjusted to their settlement amounts.
 
Although the Company is operating as a in the Chapter 11 Cases, the Company's ability to control the activities and operations of its subsidiaries that are also Debtors may be limited pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. However, because the bankruptcy proceedings for the Debtors are consolidated for administrative purposes in the same Bankruptcy Court and will be overseen by the same judge, the financial statements of Adelphia and its subsidiaries have been presented on a combined basis, which is consistent with condensed consolidated financial statements. All inter-entity transactions between Adelphia, its subsidiaries and the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities have been eliminated in consolidation.
debtor-in-possession
 
 
Overview
 
On July 11, 2002, the Creditors' Committee was appointed, and on July 31, 2002, a statutory committee of equity holders (the "Equity Committee" and, together with the Creditors' Committee, the "Committees") was appointed. The Committees have the right to, among other things, review and object to certain business transactions and may participate in the formulation of the Debtors' plan of reorganization. Under the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors were provided with specified periods during which only the Debtors could propose and file a plan of reorganization (the "Exclusive Period") and solicit acceptances thereto (the "Solicitation Period"). The Debtors received several extensions of the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period from the Bankruptcy Court with the latest extension of the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period being through February 17, 2004 and April 20, 2004, respectively. In early 2004, the Debtors filed a motion requesting an additional extension of the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period. However, in 2004, the Equity Committee filed a motion to terminate the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period and other objections were filed regarding the Debtors' request. The Bankruptcy Court has extended the Exclusive Period and the Solicitation Period until the hearing on the motions is held and a determination by the Bankruptcy Court is made. No hearing has been scheduled. For additional information, see Note 8, "Arahova Motions."
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Confirmation of Plan of Reorganization
 
For a plan of reorganization to be confirmed and become effective, the Debtors (other than the JV Debtors, as defined below) must, among other things:
 
 
Before it can issue an order confirming a plan of reorganization, the Bankruptcy Court must find that either (i) each class of impaired claims or equity interests has accepted such plan or (ii) the plan meets the requirements of the Bankruptcy Code to confirm such plan over the objections of dissenting classes. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court must find that such plan meets certain other requirements specified in the Bankruptcy Code.
 
By order dated November 23, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Debtors' fourth amended disclosure statement (the "November Disclosure Statement") as containing "adequate information" pursuant to Section 1125 of the Bankruptcy Code. By December 12, 2005, the Debtors had completed the mailing of the November Disclosure Statement and related solicitation materials in connection with the Debtors' fourth amended joint plan of reorganization, as filed with the Bankruptcy Court on November 21, 2005 (the "November Plan"). On April 28, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Debtors' supplement to the November Disclosure Statement (the "DS Supplement") as containing "adequate information" pursuant to Section 1125 of the Bankruptcy Code (the "DS Supplement Order"). By May 12, 2006, the Debtors had completed the mailing of the DS Supplement and related solicitation materials in connection with the Debtors' modified fourth amended joint plan of reorganization, filed with the Bankruptcy Court on April 28, 2006 (the "April Plan").
 
On May 26, 2006, the Debtors filed a motion (the "363 Motion") with the Bankruptcy Court seeking, among other things, approval to proceed with the sale of certain assets to TW NY and the sale of certain other assets to Comcast without first confirming a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization (other than with respect to the JV Debtors (as defined below)). A hearing to consider certain amended bid protections proposed in the 363 Motion was held on June 16, 2006, and on that date the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving new provisions for termination, for the payment of the breakup fee, a reduction in the purchase price under certain circumstances and reaffirming the effectiveness of the "no-shop provision" and overruling all objections thereto. On June 28, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the "363 Approval Order") approving the balance of the 363 Motion. On June 30, 2006, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. ("JPMC") filed a notice of appeal, appealing entry of the 363 Approval Order to the District Court. The appeal was subsequently withdrawn as part of a settlement among the Debtors, the Creditors' Committee and JPMC.
 
On June 22, 2006, the Debtors filed their Third Modified Fourth Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization (the "JV Plan") for the Century-TCI Debtors and Parnassos Debtors (collectively, the "JV Debtors") with the Bankruptcy Court with respect to the Company's partnerships with Comcast. By June 9, 2006, the Debtors' service agent had completed the mailing of a notice describing certain matters relating to the JV Plan. In response to the Debtors' plan modification motion dated June 2, 2006 (the "Plan Modification Motion"), by order dated June 8, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court approved the information in the 363 Motion and the Plan Modification Motion as containing "adequate information" pursuant to Section 1125 of the Bankruptcy Code. On June 29, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the "JV Confirmation Order") confirming the JV Plan. Together, the JV
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Confirmation Order and the 363 Approval Order authorized, among other things, consummation of the Sale Transaction. On July 31, 2006, the JV Plan became effective. Accordingly, from and after July 31, 2006, the Debtors no longer include the JV Debtors. The Company expects to pay approximately $1.8 billion of claims in the third quarter of 2006 in accordance with the JV Plan, of which approximately $1.6 billion relates to pre-petition debt obligations. The Company paid $1,248,206,000 of such pre-petition debt obligations on the Effective Date. In connection with the confirmation of the JV Plan, the Company recorded $49,883,000 of additional interest expense for certain of these allowed claims during the quarter ended June 30, 2006. Other than pre-petition debt obligations which accrue interest at their contractual rate, the JV Plan generally provides for interest on allowed claims at a rate of 8% from the Petition Date through July 31, 2006.
 
For the balance of the Debtors, the April Plan remains pending. The deadline for the submission of ballots to the balloting agent to accept or reject the April Plan is September 12, 2006, and in the case of securities held through an intermediary, the deadline for instructions to be received by the intermediary is September 7, 2006 or such other date as specified by the applicable intermediary.
 
Effective July 21, 2006, Adelphia entered into the Plan Agreement with certain representatives of the committee of holders of ACC Senior Notes represented by Hennigan, Bennett & Dorman LLP, the committee of holders of ACC Senior Notes and Arahova Notes represented by Pachulski Stang Ziehl Young Jones & Weintraub LLP, the committee of Arahova Noteholders, the committee of holders of FrontierVision Opco Notes Claims and FrontierVision Holdco Notes Claims, W.R. Huff Asset Management Co., L.L.C., the committee of ACC Trade Claimants, the committee of Subsidiary Trade Claimants and the Creditors' Committee.
ad hoc
ad hoc
ad hoc
ad hoc
ad hoc
ad hoc
 
The Plan Agreement is designed to form the basis of the Modified Plan, which includes a proposed global compromise and settlement of all disputes among the creditors, not all of whom are parties to the Plan Agreement. Adelphia's obligations under the Plan Agreement are subject to the entry by the Bankruptcy Court of an order approving a disclosure statement with respect to the Modified Plan and authorizing the Debtors to propose the Modified Plan as provided in the Plan Agreement. The Modified Plan contemplated by the Plan Agreement is subject to Bankruptcy Court approval. The Plan Agreement does not apply to the JV Debtors, whose plan of reorganization became effective on July 31, 2006.
 
The Plan Agreement reflects a compromise among certain creditor groups under which $1.08 billion in value will be transferred from certain unsecured creditors of various Adelphia subsidiaries to certain unsecured senior and trade creditors of Adelphia. In some cases, these unsecured creditors will be entitled to reimbursement from contingent sources of value, including the proceeds of a litigation trust to be established under the plan to pursue claims against third parties that are alleged to have damaged Adelphia. The Plan Agreement also contemplates that the creditors of Adelphia (other than the creditors of the JV Debtors) would receive, in addition to the $1.08 billion described above, the residual sale consideration after funding all other distributions and reserves and interests in the litigation trust as described in the Plan Agreement.
 
The Plan Agreement is conditioned upon the Modified Plan effective date occurring no later than September 15, 2006. Conditions to the Modified Plan effective date would also include material completion of the distribution of the TWC Class A Common Stock to creditors on the Modified Plan effective date, and the distribution to Adelphia's creditors on the effective date or immediately thereafter of plan consideration of at least $1.08 billion, before deducting a reserve to account for certain fluctuations in the value of TWC Class A Common Stock.
true-up
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Sale of Assets
 
On July 31, 2006, Adelphia completed the sale of assets, which in the aggregate comprise substantially all of its U.S. assets, to TW NY and Comcast. Proceeds from the Sale Transaction totaled approximately $17.4 billion, consisting of cash in the amount of approximately $12.5 billion and shares of TWC Class A Common Stock with a preliminary estimated fair value as of the Effective Date of approximately $4.9 billion. Such estimated fair value of the TWC Class A Common Stock was determined by the Company based on management's review of the underlying factors affecting the valuation of cable companies, taking into account the approximately $4.9 billion valuation agreed with TW NY for purposes of the TW NY asset purchase agreement, the $4.85 billion valuation for the Plan Agreement agreed to by the Company, the Creditors' Committee and certain creditors and creditor committees, subject to certain adjustments based on market valuation, updates from its financial advisors and the recent upward movement in the price of publicly traded cable companies' stocks.
ad hoc
 
The aggregate purchase price is subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Upon consummation of the Sale Transaction, a portion of the aggregate purchase price, consisting of approximately $503 million of cash and shares of TWC Class A Common Stock with a preliminary estimated fair value as of the Effective Date of approximately $195 million, was deposited in escrow accounts to secure Adelphia's indemnification obligations and any post-closing purchase price adjustments due to the buyers from Adelphia pursuant to the asset purchase agreements. The post-closing adjustments, if any, will be determined over the next several months. To the extent such post-closing adjustments are in favor of TW NY or Comcast, the amount of the escrow ultimately released to the Company will be reduced. In the event that the post-closing purchase price adjustment is in favor of TW NY or Comcast and exceeds the amount of the escrow, the Company is required to pay such excess outside of the escrow.
 
Certain fees are due to the Company's financial advisors upon successful completion of the Sale Transaction. The Company is in the process of determining the amount of such fees.
 
The TWC Class A Common Stock is expected to be listed on The New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") in connection with an initial registered public offering of the TWC Class A Common Stock or shortly following the consummation of a plan of reorganization to distribute the proceeds of the Sale Transaction but in any event within two weeks following the consummation of a plan of reorganization to distribute the proceeds of the Sale Transaction to the Company's creditors and stakeholders (other than those of the JV Debtors) or, if not listed on the NYSE within a reasonable period following the initial registered offering or distribution pursuant to a plan of reorganization, on The Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq").
 
On the Effective Date, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, Adelphia agreed to consummate a fully underwritten initial public offering of at least 33/% of the TWC Class A Common Stock issued by TWC in the Sale Transaction (inclusive of the overallotment option, if any) within three months of TWC preparing the necessary registration statement and having it declared effective (subject to delays under specified conditions). Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, TWC is required to file and have a registration statement covering these shares declared effective as promptly as possible and in any event, no later than January 31, 2007, subject to certain exceptions. Adelphia's obligation to consummate the public offering terminates if Adelphia consummates a plan of reorganization as a result of which (i) 75% of the TWC Class A Common Stock Adelphia received in the Sale Transaction (excluding TWC Class A Common Stock held in escrow pursuant to the Sale Transaction) is distributed to creditors and the TWC Class A Common Stock is listed on the NYSE or Nasdaq within two weeks or (ii) 90% of the TWC Class A Common Stock Adelphia received in the Sale Transaction (excluding TWC Class A Common Stock held in escrow pursuant to the Sale Transaction) is distributed to creditors regardless of listing status. After the initial public offering, Adelphia will have the right to a demand registration and a final registration if the exemption from registration pursuant to Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code is not available for a distribution of the remaining TWC Class A Common Stock to the Company's creditors and stakeholders under a Chapter 11 plan of
1
3
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
reorganization. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, TWC has the right to elect, in its sole discretion, to not rely on Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code and conduct a final registration for the distribution of the remaining TWC Class A Common Stock to the Company's creditors and stakeholders. Pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, Adelphia's ability to distribute the TWC Class A Common Stock may be subject to periods following public offerings of TWC Class A Common Stock.
lock-up
 
Pre-Petition Obligations
 
Pre-petition and post-petition obligations of the Debtors are treated differently under the Bankruptcy Code. Due to the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases and the Debtors' failure to comply with certain financial and other covenants, the Debtors are in default on substantially all of their pre-petition debt obligations (other than those that were discharged by the JV Plan). As a result of the Chapter 11 filing, all actions to collect the payment of pre-petition indebtedness are subject to compromise or other treatment under a plan of reorganization. Generally, actions to enforce or otherwise effect payment of pre-petition liabilities are stayed against the Debtors. The Bankruptcy Court has approved the Debtors' motions to pay certain pre-petition obligations including, but not limited to, employee wages, salaries, commissions, incentive compensation and other related benefits. The Debtors have been paying and intend to continue to pay undisputed post-petition claims in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the Debtors may assume or reject pre-petition executory contracts and unexpired leases with the approval of the Bankruptcy Court. Any damages resulting from the rejection of executory contracts and unexpired leases are treated as general unsecured claims and will be classified as liabilities subject to compromise. For additional information concerning liabilities subject to compromise, see below.
 
The ultimate amount of the Debtors' liabilities will be determined during the Debtors' claims resolution process. The Bankruptcy Court has established bar dates of January 9, 2004, November 14, 2005, December 20, 2005 and May 1, 2006 for filing proofs of claim against the Debtors' estates. A bar date is the date by which proofs of claim must be filed if a claimant disagrees with how its claim appears on the Debtors' Schedules of Liabilities. However, under certain limited circumstances, claimants may file proofs of claims after the bar date. As of January 9, 2004, approximately 17,000 proofs of claim asserting in excess of $3.20 trillion in claims were filed and, as of July 31, 2006, approximately 19,500 proofs of claim asserting approximately $3.98 trillion in claims were filed, in each case including duplicative claims, but excluding any estimated amounts for unliquidated claims. The aggregate amount of claims filed with the Bankruptcy Court far exceeds the Debtors' estimate of ultimate liability. The Debtors currently are in the process of reviewing, analyzing and reconciling the scheduled and filed claims. The Debtors expect that the claims resolution process will take significant time to complete following the consummation of a plan of reorganization. As the amounts of the allowed claims are determined, adjustments will be recorded in liabilities subject to compromise and reorganization income (expenses) due to bankruptcy, net.
 
The Debtors have filed numerous omnibus objections that address $3.68 trillion of filed claims, consisting primarily of duplicative claims. Certain claims addressed in such objections were either: (i) reduced and allowed; (ii) disallowed and expunged; or (iii) subordinated by orders of the Bankruptcy Court. Hearings on certain claims objections are ongoing. Certain other objections have been adjourned to allow the parties to continue to reconcile such claims. Additional omnibus objections may be filed as the claims resolution process continues.
 
("DIP") Credit Facility
Debtor-in-Possession
 
In order to provide liquidity following the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, Adelphia and certain of its subsidiaries (the "Loan Parties") entered into a $1,500,000,000 credit facility (as amended, the "DIP Facility"). On May 10, 2004, the Loan Parties entered into a $1,000,000,000 extended credit facility (as amended, the "First Extended DIP Facility"), which amended and restated the DIP Facility in its entirety. On February 25, 2005, the Loan Parties entered into a $1,300,000,000 further extended
debtor-in-possession
debtor-in-possession
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
credit facility (as amended, the "Second Extended DIP Facility"), which amended and restated the First Extended DIP Facility in its entirety. On March 17, 2006, the Loan Parties entered into a $1,300,000,000 further extended credit facility (the "Third Extended DIP Facility"), which amended and restated the Second Extended DIP Facility in its entirety. In connection with the completion of the Sale Transaction, on the Effective Date, the Loan Parties terminated the Third Extended DIP Facility. In connection with the termination of the Third Extended DIP Facility, the Loan Parties repaid all loans outstanding under the Third Extended DIP Facility and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, with such payments totaling approximately $986,000,000. In addition, in connection with the termination of the Third Extended DIP Facility the Loan Parties paid all accrued and unpaid fees of the lenders and agent banks under the Third Extended DIP Facility. In connection with these payments, effective as of the Effective Date, the collateral agent under the Third Extended DIP Facility released any and all liens and security interests on the assets that collateralized the obligations under the Third Extended DIP Facility. As described in Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements, the Company has issued certain letters of credit under the Third Extended DIP Facility. As a result of the termination of the Third Extended DIP Facility, on the Effective Date, the Company collateralized letters of credit issued under the Third Extended DIP Facility with cash of $87,661,000. For additional information, see Note 5.
debtor-in-possession
debtor-in-possession
 
Exit Financing Commitment
 
On February 25, 2004, Adelphia executed a commitment letter and certain related documents pursuant to which a syndicate of financial institutions committed to provide to the Debtors up to $8,800,000,000 in exit financing. Following the Bankruptcy Court's approval on June 30, 2004 of the exit financing commitment, the Company paid the exit lenders a nonrefundable fee of $10,000,000 and reimbursed the exit lenders for certain expenses they had incurred through the date of such approval, including certain legal expenses. In light of the agreements with TW NY and Comcast, on April 25, 2005, the Company informed the exit lenders of its election to terminate the exit financing commitment, which termination became effective on May 9, 2005. As a result of the termination, the Company recorded a charge of $58,267,000 during the second quarter of 2005, which represents previously unpaid commitment fees of $45,428,000, the nonrefundable fee of $10,000,000 and certain other expenses.
 
Presentation
 
In accordance with Statement of all pre-petition liabilities subject to compromise have been segregated in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and classified as liabilities subject to compromise, at the estimated amount of allowable claims. Liabilities subject to compromise are reported at the amounts expected to be allowed, even if they may be settled for lesser amounts. For periods subsequent to the Petition Date, interest expense has been reported only to the extent that it is expected to be paid during the Chapter 11 proceedings. In addition, no preferred stock dividends have been accrued subsequent to the Petition Date. Liabilities not subject to compromise are separately classified as current or noncurrent. Revenue, expenses, realized gains and losses, and provisions for losses resulting from reorganization are reported separately as reorganization income (expenses) due to bankruptcy, net. Cash used for reorganization items is disclosed in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Position 90-7,
Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code
("SOP 90-7"),
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Liabilities subject to compromise consist of the following (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Following is a reconciliation of the changes in liabilities subject to compromise for the period from December 31, 2005 through June 30, 2006 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
The amounts presented as liabilities subject to compromise may be subject to future adjustments depending on Bankruptcy Court actions, completion of the reconciliation process with respect to disputed claims, determinations of the secured status of certain claims, the value of any collateral securing such claims or other events. Such adjustments may be material to the amounts reported as liabilities subject to compromise.
 
As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, deferred financing fees related to pre-petition debt obligations are no longer amortized. Accordingly, unamortized deferred financing fees of $131,059,000 have been included in liabilities subject to compromise as a reduction of the net carrying value of the related pre-petition debt. Similarly, amortization of the deferred issuance costs for the Company's redeemable preferred stock was also terminated at the Petition Date.
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Reorganization Income (Expenses) Due to Bankruptcy, Net
 
Only those fees and other items directly related to the Chapter 11 filings are included in reorganization income (expenses) due to bankruptcy, net. These fees and other items are adjusted by interest earned during reorganization and income related to the settlement of certain liabilities subject to compromise. Certain reorganization expenses are contingent upon the approval of a plan of reorganization by the Bankruptcy Court and include cure costs, financing fees and success fees. The Company is aware of certain success fees that potentially could be paid upon the Company's emergence from bankruptcy to third party financial advisors retained by the Company and the Committees in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases. Currently, these success fees are estimated to be $6,500,000 in the aggregate and would not be the obligation of either TW NY or Comcast. None of these fees became payable as a result of the emergence of the JV Debtors from bankruptcy on July 31, 2006. In addition, pursuant to their employment agreements, the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and the Chief Operating Officer ("COO") of the Company are eligible to receive equity awards of Adelphia stock with a minimum aggregate fair value of $17,000,000 upon the Debtors' emergence from bankruptcy. Under the employment agreements, the value of such equity awards will be determined based on the average trading price of the post-emergence common stock of Adelphia during the 15 trading days immediately preceding the 90th day following the date of emergence. Pursuant to the employment agreements, these equity awards, which will be subject to vesting and trading restrictions, may be increased up to a maximum aggregate value of $25,500,000 at the discretion of the board of directors of Adelphia (the "Board").
 
On June 9, 2006, the Debtors filed a motion (the "CEO/COO Motion") with the Bankruptcy Court seeking authority to amend the provisions of these employment agreements with the CEO and COO relating to Emergence Awards (a fixed amount Initial Equity Award and a discretionary Emergence Date Special Award, each as defined in their respective employment agreement) (the "Amendments"). On August 8, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court authorized the Amendment relating to the COO, which authorized the Company to pay the COO $6,800,000 in cash in lieu of the Initial Equity Award and, subject to the discretion of the Board, up to $3,400,000 in cash in lieu of the Emergence Date Special Award of restricted shares. In exchange for the Emergence Awards, the Company's COO will execute a release of any claims for additional compensation other than such Emergence Awards. The CEO/COO Motion was adjourned as to the Company's CEO until September 12, 2006. If the CEO/COO Motion is approved as to the relief relating to the Company's CEO, the Company will be authorized to pay the CEO $10,200,000 in cash in lieu of the Initial Equity Award and, subject to the discretion of the Board, up to $5,100,000 in cash in lieu of the Emergence Date Special Award of restricted shares, and the CEO will execute a release of any claims for additional compensation other than such Emergence Awards.
 
The following table sets forth certain components of reorganization income (expenses) due to bankruptcy, net for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Note 2:  Bankruptcy Proceedings and Sale of Assets of the Company (Continued)
 
Investigation, Re-audit and Sale Transaction Costs
 
The Company is incurring certain professional fees that, although not directly related to the Chapter 11 filing, relate to the investigation of the actions of certain members of the Rigas Family who held all of the senior executive positions at Adelphia and constituted five of the nine members of Adelphia's board of directors, related efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations and the Sale Transaction. These expenses include legal fees, employee retention costs, audit fees incurred for the years ended December 31, 2001 and prior, legal defense costs paid on behalf of the Rigas Family and consultant fees. These expenses have been included in investigation, re-audit and sale transaction costs in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
 
 
Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 46, (as subsequently revised in December 2003 requires variable interest entities, as defined by to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary if certain criteria are met. Effective January 1, 2004, the Company began consolidating the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities under As described below, the Company ceased to consolidate Coudersport and Bucktail under in the second quarter of 2005. Pursuant to the RME Forfeiture Orders, all right, title and interest in the Forfeited Entities held by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities prior to the Forfeiture Order were transferred to the Company on March 29, 2006. The Forfeited Entities do not include Coudersport and Bucktail. See Note 8 for additional information. As a result, the Forfeited Entities became part of Adelphia and its consolidated subsidiaries on March 29, 2006 and the provisions of are no longer applicable to the Forfeited Entities.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
,
"FIN 46-R")
FIN 46-R,
FIN 46-R.
FIN 46-R
FIN 46-R
 
The April 2005 agreements approved by the District Court in the SEC civil enforcement action (the "SEC Civil Action"), including: (i) the Non-Prosecution Agreement; (ii) the Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement (defined in Note 8); (iii) the Government-Rigas Settlement Agreement (also defined in Note 8); and (iv) the final judgment as to Adelphia (collectively, the "Government Settlement Agreements"), provide for, among other things, the forfeiture of certain assets by the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities. As a result of the Forfeiture Order on June 8, 2005, the Company was no longer the primary beneficiary of Coudersport and Bucktail. Accordingly, the Company ceased to consolidate Coudersport and Bucktail under in the second quarter of 2005.
FIN 46-R
 
The consolidation of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities under resulted in the following impact to the Company's consolidated financial statements for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
FIN 46-R
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the Government Settlement Agreements, all amounts owed between Adelphia (including the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities) and the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities will not be collected or paid. As a result, in June 2005, the Company derecognized through other income (expense) the $460,256,000 payable by the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities to the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities. This liability, which was recorded by the Company in connection with the January 1, 2004 consolidation of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities, had no legal right of set-off against amounts due to the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities from the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities.
 
On June 8, 2005, pursuant to the Forfeiture Order, equity ownership of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities (other than Coudersport and Bucktail), the debt and equity securities of the Company and certain real estate and other property were forfeited by the Rigas Family and the Rigas Family Entities to the United States. In conjunction with the Forfeiture Order on June 8, 2005, the Company recorded the settlement proceeds at their fair value. The Company determined that the equity interests in the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities had nominal value as the liabilities of these entities significantly exceed the fair value of their assets. On March 29, 2006, all right, title and interest in the Forfeited Entities held by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities prior to the Forfeiture Order were transferred to certain subsidiaries of the Company free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances and adverse interests in accordance with the RME Forfeiture Orders, subject to certain limitations set forth in the RME Forfeiture Orders.
 
On July 28, 2006, the District Court entered the Real Property Forfeiture Orders pursuant to which all right, title and interest previously held by the Rigas Family and the Rigas Family Entities in certain specified real estate and other property were transferred to certain subsidiaries of the Company free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances and adverse interests in accordance with the Real Property Forfeiture Orders, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Real Property Forfeiture Orders.
 
The transfer of all right, title and interest previously held by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities in any of the Company's securities in furtherance of the Non-Prosecution Agreement is expected to occur in accordance with separate, subsequent court documentation.
 
Also, in connection with the Government Settlement Agreements, the Company agreed to pay the Rigas Family an additional $11,500,000 for legal defense costs, which was paid by the Company in June 2005. The Government Settlement Agreements release the Company from further obligation to provide funding for legal defense costs for the Rigas Family.
 
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had accrued $2,717,000 of severance for John J. Rigas pursuant to the terms of a May 23, 2002 agreement with John J. Rigas, Timothy J. Rigas, James P. Rigas and Michael J. Rigas. The Government Settlement Agreements release the Company from this severance obligation. Accordingly, the Company derecognized the severance accrual and recognized the benefit of $2,717,000 in June 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company recognized a net benefit from the settlement with the Rigas Family and Other Rigas Entities in June 2005 and has included such net benefit in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations, as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The carrying value of the Company's debt is summarized below for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
 
Third Extended DIP Facility
 
On March 17, 2006, the Loan Parties entered into the $1,300,000,000 Third Extended DIP Facility, which superseded and replaced in its entirety the Second Extended DIP Facility. The Third Extended DIP Facility was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on March 16, 2006 and closed on March 17, 2006.
 
The Third Extended DIP Facility generally was scheduled to mature upon the earlier of August 7, 2006 or the occurrence of certain other events, as described in the Third Extended DIP Facility. The Third Extended DIP Facility was comprised of an $800,000,000 revolving Tranche A Loan (including a $500,000,000 letter of credit subfacility) and a $500,000,000 term Tranche B Loan. The Third Extended DIP Facility was secured with a first priority lien on all of the Loan Parties' unencumbered assets, a priming first priority lien on all assets of the Loan Parties securing their pre-petition bank debt and a junior lien on all other assets of the Loan Parties. The applicable
 
 
 
 
 
margin on loans extended under the Third Extended DIP Facility was reduced (when compared to the Second Extended DIP Facility) to 1.00% per annum in the case of alternate base rate loans and 2.00% per annum in the case of adjusted London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") loans, and the commitment fee with respect to the unused portion of the Tranche A Loan is 0.50% per annum (which is the same fee that was charged under the Second Extended DIP Facility).
 
In connection with the closing of the Third Extended DIP Facility, on March 17, 2006, the Loan Parties borrowed an aggregate of $916,000,000 thereunder and used all such proceeds and a portion of available cash and cash equivalents to repay all of the indebtedness, including accrued and unpaid interest and certain fees and expenses, outstanding under the Second Extended DIP Facility.
 
From time to time, the Loan Parties and the DIP lenders entered into certain amendments to the terms of the DIP facilities. In addition, from time to time, the Loan Parties received waivers to prevent or cure certain defaults or events of defaults under the DIP facilities. To the extent applicable, all of the waivers and amendments agreed to between the Loan Parties and the DIP lenders under the previous DIP facilities are effective through the maturity date of the Third Extended DIP Facility.
 
As of June 30, 2006, $454,000,000 under the Tranche A Loan had been drawn and letters of credit totaling $83,941,000 were issued under the Tranche A Loan, leaving availability of $262,059,000 under the Tranche A Loan. Furthermore, as of June 30, 2006, the entire $500,000,000 under the Tranche B Loan was drawn.
 
In connection with the completion of the Sale Transaction, on the Effective Date, the Loan Parties terminated the Third Extended DIP Facility. In connection with the termination of the Third Extended DIP Facility, the Loan Parties repaid all loans outstanding under the Third Extended DIP Facility and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, with such payments totaling approximately $986,000,000. In addition, in connection with the termination of the Third Extended DIP Facility the Loan Parties paid all accrued and unpaid fees of the lenders under the Third Extended DIP Facility. In connection with these payments, effective as of the Effective Date, the collateral agent under the Third Extended DIP Facility released any and all liens and security interests on the assets that collateralized the obligations under the Third Extended DIP Facility. As described in Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements, the Company has issued certain letters of credit under the Third Extended DIP Facility. As a result of the termination of the Third Extended DIP Facility, on the Effective Date, the Company collateralized letters of credit issued under the Third Extended DIP Facility with cash of $87,661,000.
 
 
All debt of Adelphia is structurally subordinated to the debt of its subsidiaries such that the assets of an indebted subsidiary are used to satisfy the applicable subsidiary debt before being applied to the payment of parent debt.
 
 
The convertible subordinated notes include: (i) $1,029,876,000 aggregate principal amount of 6% convertible subordinated notes; (ii) $975,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.25% convertible subordinated notes; and (iii) unamortized discounts aggregating $12,854,000. Prior to the Forfeiture Order, the Other Rigas Entities held $167,376,000 aggregate principal amount of the 6% notes and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 3.25% notes. The terms of the 6% notes and 3.25% notes provide for the conversion of such notes into Class A Common Stock (Class B Common Stock in the case of notes held by the Other Rigas Entities) at the option of the holder any time prior to maturity at an initial conversion price of $55.49 per share and $43.76 per share, respectively.
 
The transfer of all right, title and interest previously held by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities in any of the Company's securities, including the 6% notes and the 3.25% notes, in furtherance of the Non-
 
 
 
 
 
Prosecution Agreement is expected to occur in accordance with separate, subsequent court documentation. The Company will recognize the benefits of such conveyance when it occurs. For additional information, see Note 8.
 
 
The Company expects to pay $1,623,000,000 of pre-petition debt obligations, plus accrued interest of $10,272,000, of which $1,248,206,000 was paid on the Effective Date, to certain banks in the third quarter of 2006 in accordance with the JV Plan.
 
 
The co-borrowing facilities represent the aggregate amount outstanding pursuant to three separate co-borrowing facilities dated May 6, 1999, April 14, 2000 and September 28, 2001 (the "Co-Borrowing Facilities"). Each co-borrower is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount of the indebtedness under the applicable Co-Borrowing Facility regardless of whether that co-borrower actually borrowed that amount under such Co-Borrowing Facility. All amounts outstanding under Co-Borrowing Facilities at June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 represent pre-petition liabilities that have been classified as liabilities subject to compromise in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
 
Other Debt Matters
 
Due to the commencement of the Chapter 11 proceedings and the Company's failure to comply with certain financial covenants, the Company is in default on substantially all of its pre-petition debt obligations. Except as otherwise may be determined by the Bankruptcy Court, the automatic stay protection afforded by the Chapter 11 proceedings prevents any action from being taken against any of the Debtors with regard to any of the defaults under the pre-petition debt obligations. With the exception of the Company's capital lease obligations and a portion of other subsidiary debt, all of the pre-petition obligations are classified as liabilities subject to compromise in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. For additional information, see Note 2.
 
Interest Rate Derivative Agreements
 
At the Petition Date, all of the Company's derivative financial instruments had been settled or have since been settled except for one fixed rate swap, one variable rate swap and one interest rate collar. As the settlement of the remaining derivative financial instruments will be determined by the Bankruptcy Court, the $3,486,000 fair value of the liability associated with the derivative financial instruments at the Petition Date has been classified as a liability subject to compromise in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
 
 
The Company identifies reportable segments as those consolidated segments that represent 10% or more of the combined revenue, net earnings or loss, or total assets of all of the Company's operating segments as of and for the period ended on the most recent balance sheet date presented. Operating segments that do not meet this threshold are aggregated for segment reporting purposes within the "corporate and other" column. As of June 30, 2006, the Company's only reportable operating segment was its "cable" segment. The cable segment included the Company's cable system operations (including consolidated subsidiaries, equity method investments and variable interest entities) that provided the distribution of analog and digital video programming and high-speed Internet ("HSI") services to customers, for a monthly fee, through a network of fiber optic and coaxial cables. This segment also included the Company's media services (advertising sales) business. The reportable cable segment included five
 
 
 
 
 
operating regions that have been combined as one reportable segment because all of such regions had similar economic characteristics.
 
Selected financial information concerning the Company's current operating segments is presented below for the indicated periods (amounts in thousands):
 
 
The Company did not derive more than 10% of its revenue from any one customer during the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005. The Company's long-lived assets related to its foreign operations were $7,215,000 and $6,517,000 as of June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. The Company's revenue related to its foreign operations was $5,550,000 and $4,365,000 during the three months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $11,473,000 and $8,656,000 during the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company's assets and revenue related to its foreign operations were not significant to the Company's financial position or results of operations, respectively, during any of the periods presented.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the indicated periods was as follows (amounts in thousands):
 
 
 
Reorganization Expenses due to Bankruptcy and Professional Fees
 
The Company is aware of certain success fees that potentially could be paid upon the Company's emergence from bankruptcy to third party financial advisers retained by the Company and Committees in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases. Currently, these success fees are estimated to be $6,500,000 in the aggregate. In addition, pursuant to their employment agreements, the CEO and the COO of the Company are eligible to receive equity awards of Adelphia stock with a minimum aggregate fair value of $17,000,000 upon the Debtors' emergence from bankruptcy. Under the employment agreements, the value of such equity awards will be determined based on the average trading price of the post-emergence common stock of Adelphia during the 15 trading days immediately preceding the 90th day following the date of emergence. Pursuant to the employment agreements, these equity awards, which will be subject to vesting and trading restrictions, may be increased up to a maximum aggregate value of $25,500,000 at the discretion of the Board.
 
On June 9, 2006, the Debtors filed a motion (the "CEO/COO Motion") with the Bankruptcy Court seeking authority to amend the provisions of these employment agreements with the CEO and COO relating to Emergence Awards (a fixed amount Initial Equity Award and a discretionary Emergence Date Special Award, each as defined in their respective employment agreement) (the "Amendments"). On August 8, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court authorized the Amendment relating to the COO, which authorized the Company to pay the COO $6,800,000 in cash in lieu of the Initial Equity Award and, subject to the discretion of the Board, up to $3,400,000 in cash in lieu of the Emergence Date Special Award of restricted shares. In exchange for the Emergence Awards, the Company's COO will execute a release of any claims for additional compensation other than such Emergence Awards. The CEO/COO Motion was adjourned as to the Company's CEO until September 12, 2006. If the CEO/COO Motion is approved as to the relief relating to the Company's CEO, the Company will be authorized to pay the CEO $10,200,000 in cash in lieu of the Initial Equity Award and, subject to the discretion of the Board, up to $5,100,000 in cash in lieu of the Emergence Date Special Award of restricted shares, and the CEO will execute a release of any claims for additional compensation other than such Emergence Awards.
 
Letters of Credit
 
The Company has issued standby letters of credit for the benefit of franchise authorities and other parties, most of which have been issued to an intermediary surety bonding company. All such letters of credit will expire no later than October 7, 2006. At June 30, 2006, the aggregate principal amount of letters of credit issued by the Company was $84,831,000, of which $83,941,000 was issued under the Third Extended DIP Facility and $890,000 was collateralized by cash. Letters of credit issued under the DIP facilities reduce the amount that may be borrowed
 
 
 
 
 
under the DIP facilities. As a result of the termination of the Third Extended DIP Facility as described in Notes 2 and 5 in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements, on the Effective Date, the Company collateralized letters of credit issued under the Third Extended DIP Facility with cash of $87,661,000.
 
Litigation Matters
 
  The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 5, , in determining its accruals and disclosures with respect to loss contingencies. Accordingly, estimated losses from loss contingencies are accrued by a charge to income when information available indicates that it is probable that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. If a loss contingency is not probable or reasonably estimable, disclosure of the loss contingency is made in the financial statements when it is reasonably possible that a loss may be incurred.
General.
Accounting for Contingencies
 
  On July 24, 2002, the SEC Civil Action was filed against Adelphia, certain members of the Rigas Family and others, alleging various securities fraud and improper books and records claims arising out of actions allegedly taken or directed by certain members of the Rigas Family who held all of the senior executive positions at Adelphia and constituted five of the nine members of Adelphia's board of directors (none of whom remain with the Company).
SEC Civil Action and the United States Department of Justice ("DoJ") Investigation.
 
On December 3, 2003, the SEC filed a proof of claim in the Chapter 11 Cases against Adelphia for, among other things, penalties, disgorgement and prejudgment interest in an unspecified amount. The staff of the SEC told the Company's advisors that its asserted claims for disgorgement and civil penalties under various legal theories could amount to billions of dollars. On July 14, 2004, the Creditors' Committee initiated an adversary proceeding seeking, in effect, to subordinate the SEC's claims based on the SEC Civil Action.
 
On April 25, 2005, after extensive negotiations with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney, the Company entered into the Non-Prosecution Agreement pursuant to which the Company agreed, among other things: (i) to contribute $715,000,000 in value to a fund to be established and administered by the United States Attorney General and the SEC for the benefit of investors harmed by the activities of prior management (the "Restitution Fund"); (ii) to continue to cooperate with the U.S. Attorney until the later of April 25, 2007, or the date upon which all prosecutions arising out of the conduct described in the Rigas Criminal Action (as described below) and SEC Civil Action are final; and (iii) not to assert claims against the Rigas Family except for John J. Rigas, Timothy J. Rigas and Michael J. Rigas (together, the "Excluded Parties"), provided that Michael J. Rigas will cease to be an Excluded Party if all currently pending criminal proceedings against him are resolved without a felony conviction on a charge involving fraud or false statements (other than false statements to the U.S. Attorney or the SEC). On November 23, 2005, Michael J. Rigas pled guilty to a violation of Title 47, U.S. Code, Section 220(e) for making a false entry in a Company record (a form required to be filed with the SEC), and on March 3, 2006, was sentenced to two years of probation, including ten months of home confinement.
 
As a result of the Sale Transaction, the Company's contribution to the Restitution Fund will consist of $600,000,000 in cash and stock (with at least $200,000,000 in cash) and 50% of the first $230,000,000 of future proceeds, if any, from certain litigation against third parties who injured the Company. Unless extended on consent of the U.S. Attorney and the SEC, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, the Company must make these payments on or before the earlier of: (i) October 15, 2006; (ii) 120 days after confirmation of a stand-alone plan of reorganization; or (iii) seven days after the first distribution of stock or cash to creditors under any plan of reorganization (the SEC on behalf of itself and the U.S. Attorney has informed the Company that such distribution under the JV Plan does not create an obligation to make the restitution payment). The Company recorded charges of $425,000,000 and $175,000,000 during 2004 and 2002, respectively, related to the Non-Prosecution Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
The U.S. Attorney agreed: (i) not to prosecute Adelphia or specified subsidiaries of Adelphia for any conduct (other than criminal tax violations) related to the Rigas Criminal Action (defined below) or the allegations contained in the SEC Civil Action; (ii) not to use information obtained through the Company's cooperation with the U.S. Attorney to criminally prosecute the Company for tax violations; and (iii) to transfer to the Company all of the Forfeited Entities, certain specified real estate and other property forfeited by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities and any securities of the Company that were directly or indirectly owned by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities prior to forfeiture. The U.S. Attorney agreed with the Rigas Family not to require forfeiture of Coudersport and Bucktail (which together served approximately 5,000 subscribers (unaudited) as of the date of the Forfeiture Order). A condition precedent to the Company's obligation to make the contribution to the Restitution Fund described in the preceding paragraph is the Company's receipt of title to the Forfeited Entities, certain specified real estate and other property and any securities described above forfeited by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities, free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances or adverse interests. The Forfeited Entities transferred to the Company pursuant to the RME Forfeiture Orders represent the overwhelming majority of the Rigas Co-Borrowing Entities' subscribers and value.
 
Also on April 25, 2005, the Company consented to the entry of a final judgment in the SEC Civil Action resolving the SEC's claims against the Company. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company will be permanently enjoined from violating various provisions of the federal securities laws, and the SEC has agreed that if the Company makes the $715,000,000 contribution to the Restitution Fund, then the Company will not be required to pay disgorgement or a civil monetary penalty to satisfy the SEC's claims.
 
Pursuant to letter agreements with TW NY and Comcast, the U.S. Attorney has agreed, notwithstanding any failure by the Company to comply with the Non-Prosecution Agreement, that it will not criminally prosecute any of the joint venture entities or their subsidiaries purchased from the Company by TW NY or Comcast pursuant to the asset purchase agreements dated April 20, 2005, as amended (the "Purchase Agreements"). Under such letter agreements, each of TW NY and Comcast have agreed that following the closing of the Sale Transaction they will cooperate with the relevant governmental authorities' requests for information about the Company's operations, finances and corporate governance between 1997 and confirmation of the Debtors' plan of reorganization. The sole and exclusive remedy against TW NY or Comcast for breach of any obligation in the letter agreements is a civil action for breach of contract seeking specific performance of such obligations. In addition, TW NY and Comcast entered into letter agreements with the SEC agreeing that upon and after the closing of the Sale Transaction, TW NY, Comcast and their respective affiliates (including the joint venture entities transferred pursuant to the Purchase Agreements) will not be subject to, or have any obligation under, the final judgment consented to by the Company in the SEC Civil Action.
 
The Non-Prosecution Agreement was subject to the approval of, and has been approved by, the Bankruptcy Court. Adelphia's consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action was subject to the approval of, and has been approved by, both the Bankruptcy Court and the District Court. Various parties have challenged and sought appellate review or reconsideration of the orders of the Bankruptcy Court approving these settlements. The District Court affirmed the Bankruptcy Court's approval of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, Adelphia's consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action and the Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement (defined below). On March 24, 2006, various parties appealed the District Court's order affirming the Bankruptcy Court's approval to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (the "Second Circuit"). Adelphia has moved to dismiss that appeal on the grounds that it is moot, amounts to an impermissible collateral attack on the 363 Approval Order and is barred by res judicata. The appeal from the District Court's order affirming the Bankruptcy Court's approval and Adelphia's motion to dismiss that appeal are pending before the Second Circuit. The order of the District Court approving Adelphia's consent to the final judgment in the SEC Civil Action has not been appealed. The appeals of the District
 
 
 
 
 
Court's approval of the Government-Rigas Settlement Agreement (defined below) and the creation of the Restitution Fund have been denied by the Second Circuit.
 
  On July 24, 2002, Adelphia filed a complaint in the Bankruptcy Court against John J. Rigas, Michael J. Rigas, Timothy J. Rigas, James P. Rigas, James Brown, Michael C. Mulcahey, Peter L. Venetis, Doris Rigas, Ellen Rigas Venetis and the Rigas Family Entities (the "Rigas Civil Action"). This action generally alleged the defendants misappropriated billions of dollars from the Company in breach of their fiduciary duties to Adelphia. On November 15, 2002, Adelphia filed an amended complaint against the defendants that expanded upon the facts alleged in the original complaint and alleged violations of the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations ("RICO") Act, breach of fiduciary duty, securities fraud, fraudulent concealment, fraudulent misrepresentation, conversion, waste of corporate assets, breach of contract, unjust enrichment, fraudulent conveyance, constructive trust, inducing breach of fiduciary duty, and a request for an accounting (the "Amended Complaint"). The Amended Complaint sought relief in the form of, among other things, treble and punitive damages, disgorgement of monies and securities obtained as a consequence of the Rigas Family's improper conduct and attorneys' fees.
Adelphia's Lawsuit Against the Rigas Family.
 
On April 25, 2005, Adelphia and the Rigas Family entered into a settlement agreement with respect to the Rigas Civil Action (the "Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement"), pursuant to which Adelphia agreed, among other things: (i) to pay $11,500,000 to a legal defense fund for the benefit of the Rigas Family; (ii) to provide management services to Coudersport and Bucktail for an interim period ending no later than December 31, 2005 ("Interim Management Services"); (iii) to indemnify Coudersport and Bucktail, and the Rigas Family's (other than the Excluded Parties') interest therein, against claims asserted by the lenders under the Co-Borrowing Facilities with respect to such indebtedness up to the fair market value of those entities (without regard to their obligations with respect to such indebtedness); (iv) to provide certain members of the Rigas Family with certain indemnities, reimbursements or other protections in connection with certain third party claims arising out of Company litigation, and in connection with claims against certain members of the Rigas Family by any of the Tele-Media Joint Ventures or Century/ML Cable Venture ("Century/ML Cable"); and (v) within ten business days of the date on which the consent order of forfeiture is entered, dismiss the Rigas Civil Action, except for claims against the Excluded Parties. The Rigas Family agreed: (i) to make certain tax elections, under certain circumstances, with respect to the Forfeited Entities; (ii) to pay Adelphia five percent of the gross operating revenue of Coudersport and Bucktail for the Interim Management Services; and (iii) to offer employment to certain Coudersport and Bucktail employees on terms and conditions that, in the aggregate, are no less favorable to such employees (other than any employees who were expressly excluded by written notice to Adelphia received by July 1, 2005) than their terms of employment with the Company.
 
Pursuant to the Adelphia-Rigas Settlement Agreement, on June 21, 2005, the Company filed a dismissal with prejudice of all claims in this action except against the Excluded Parties.
 
This settlement was subject to the approval of, and has been approved by, the Bankruptcy Court. Various parties have challenged and sought appellate review or reconsideration of the order of the Bankruptcy Court approving this settlement. The appeals of the Bankruptcy Court's approval remain pending.
 
  In connection with an investigation conducted by the DoJ, on July 24, 2002, certain members of the Rigas Family and certain alleged co-conspirators were arrested, and on September 23, 2002, were indicted by a grand jury on charges including fraud, securities fraud, bank fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud (the "Rigas Criminal Action"). On November 14, 2002, one of the Rigas Family's alleged co-conspirators, James Brown, pleaded guilty to one count each of conspiracy, securities fraud and bank fraud. On January 10, 2003, another of the Rigas Family's alleged co-conspirators, Timothy Werth, who had not been arrested with the others on July 24, 2002, pleaded guilty to one count each of securities fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud, wire fraud
Rigas Criminal Action.
 
 
 
 
 
and bank fraud. The trial in the Rigas Criminal Action began on February 23, 2004 in the District Court. On July 8, 2004, the jury returned a partial verdict in the Rigas Criminal Action. John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas were each found guilty of conspiracy (one count), bank fraud (two counts), and securities fraud (15 counts) and not guilty of wire fraud (five counts). Michael J. Mulcahey was acquitted of all 23 counts against him. The jury found Michael J. Rigas not guilty of conspiracy and wire fraud, but remained undecided on the securities fraud and bank fraud charges against him. On July 9, 2004, the court declared a mistrial on the remaining charges against Michael J. Rigas after the jurors were unable to reach a verdict as to those charges. The bank fraud charges against Michael J. Rigas have since been dismissed with prejudice. On March 17, 2005, the District Court denied the motion of John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas for a new trial. On June 20, 2005, John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas were convicted and sentenced to 15 years and 20 years in prison, respectively. John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas have appealed their convictions and sentences and remain free on bail pending resolution of their appeals. On November 23, 2005, Michael J. Rigas pled guilty to a violation of Title 47, U.S. Code, Section 220(e) for making a false entry in a Company record (a form required to be filed with the SEC), and on March 3, 2006, was sentenced to two years of probation, including ten months of home confinement.
 
The indictment against the Rigas Family included a request for entry of a money judgment in an amount exceeding $2,500,000,000 and for entry of an order of forfeiture of all interests of the convicted Rigas defendants in the Rigas Family Entities. On December 10, 2004, the DoJ filed an application for a preliminary order of forfeiture finding John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas jointly and severally liable for personal money judgments in the amount of $2,533,000,000.
 
On April 25, 2005, the Rigas Family and the U.S. Attorney entered into a settlement agreement (the "Government-Rigas Settlement Agreement"), pursuant to which the Rigas Family agreed to forfeit: (i) all of the Forfeited Entities; (ii) certain specified real estate and other property; and (iii) all securities in the Company directly or indirectly owned by the Rigas Family. The U.S. Attorney agreed: (i) not to seek additional monetary penalties from the Rigas Family, including the request for a money judgment as noted above; (ii) from the proceeds of certain assets forfeited by the Rigas Family, to establish the Restitution Fund for the purpose of providing restitution to holders of the Company's publicly traded securities; and (iii) to inform the District Court of this agreement at the sentencing of John J. Rigas and Timothy J. Rigas.
 
Pursuant to the Forfeiture Order, all right, title and interest of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities in the Forfeited Entities, certain specified real estate and other property and any securities of the Company were forfeited to the United States. On August 19, 2005, the Company filed a petition with the District Court seeking an order transferring title to these assets and securities to the Company. Since that time, petitions have been filed by three lending banks, each asserting an interest in the Forfeited Entities for the purpose, according to the petitions, of protecting against the contingency that the Bankruptcy Court approval of certain settlement agreements is overturned on appeal. In addition, petitions have been filed by two local franchising authorities with respect to two of the Forfeited Entities, by two mechanic's lienholders with respect to two of the forfeited real properties and by a school district with respect to one of the forfeited real properties. The Company's petition also asserted claims to the forfeited properties on behalf of two entities, Century/ML Cable and Super Cable ALK International, A.A. (Venezuela), in which the Company no longer holds an interest. Pursuant to the RME Forfeiture Orders, on March 29, 2006, all right, title and interest in the Forfeited Entities held by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities prior to the Forfeiture Order were transferred to certain subsidiaries of the Company free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances and adverse interests in accordance with the RME Forfeiture Orders, subject to certain limitations set forth in the RME Forfeiture Orders. On July 28, 2006, the District Court entered the Real Property Forfeiture Orders pursuant to which all right, title and interest previously held by the Rigas Family and the Rigas Family Entities in certain specified real estate and other property were transferred to certain subsidiaries of the Company free and clear of all liens, claims, encumbrances and adverse interests in accordance with the Real
 
 
 
 
 
Property Forfeiture Orders, subject to certain limitations set forth in the Real Property Forfeiture Orders. The transfer of all right, title and interest previously held by the Rigas Family and by the Rigas Family Entities in any of the Company's securities in furtherance of the Non-Prosecution Agreement is expected to occur in accordance with separate, subsequent court documentation. The government has requested that its next status report to the District Court regarding the forfeiture proceedings be submitted on September 12, 2006.
 
The Company was not a defendant in the Rigas Criminal Action, but was under investigation by the DoJ regarding matters related to alleged wrongdoing by certain members of the Rigas Family. Upon approval of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, Adelphia and specified subsidiaries are no longer subject to criminal prosecution (other than for criminal tax violations) by the U.S. Attorney for any conduct related to the Rigas Criminal Action or the allegations contained in the SEC Civil Action, so long as the Company complies with its obligations under the Non-Prosecution Agreement.
 
  Certain of the Debtors and certain former officers, directors and advisors have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state securities laws and related claims. These actions generally allege that the defendants made materially misleading statements understating the Company's liabilities and exaggerating the Company's financial results in violation of securities laws.
Securities and Derivative Litigation.
 
In particular, beginning on April 2, 2002, various groups of plaintiffs filed more than 30 class action complaints, purportedly on behalf of certain of the Company's shareholders and bondholders or classes thereof in federal court in Pennsylvania. Several non-class action lawsuits were brought on behalf of individuals or small groups of security holders in federal courts in Pennsylvania, New York, South Carolina and New Jersey, and in state courts in New York, Pennsylvania, California and Texas. Seven derivative suits were also filed in federal and state courts in Pennsylvania, and four derivative suits were filed in state court in Delaware. On May 6, 2002, a notice and proposed order of dismissal without prejudice was filed by the plaintiff in one of these four Delaware derivative actions. The remaining three Delaware derivative actions were consolidated on May 22, 2002. On February 10, 2004, the parties stipulated and agreed to the dismissal of these consolidated actions with prejudice.
 
The complaints, which named as defendants the Company, certain former officers and directors of the Company and, in some cases, the Company's former auditors, lawyers, as well as financial institutions who worked with the Company, generally allege that, among other improper statements and omissions, defendants misled investors regarding the Company's liabilities and earnings in the Company's public filings. The majority of these actions assert claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Certain bondholder actions assert claims for violation of Section 11 Section 12(a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933. Certain of the state court actions allege various state law claims.
Rule 10b-5.
and/or
 
On July 23, 2003, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation issued an order transferring numerous civil actions to the District Court for consolidated or coordinated pre-trial proceedings (the "MDL Proceedings").
 
On September 15, 2003, proposed lead plaintiffs and proposed co-lead counsel in the consolidated class action were appointed in the MDL Proceedings. On December 22, 2003, lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated class action complaint. Motions to dismiss have been filed by various defendants. Beginning in the spring of 2005, the court in the MDL Proceedings granted in part various motions to dismiss relating to many of the actions, while granting leave to replead some claims. As a result of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases and the protections of the automatic stay, the Company is not named as a defendant in the amended complaint, but is a non-party. The parties have continued to brief pleading motions, and no answer to the consolidated class action complaint, or the other actions, has been filed. The consolidated class action complaint seeks monetary damages of an unspecified amount, rescission and reasonable costs and expenses and such other relief as the court may deem just and proper. The individual actions against the Company also seek damages of an unspecified amount.
 
 
 
 
 
On May 23, 2006, the lead plaintiffs, the named plaintiffs and the class reached a settlement with Deloitte & Touche LLP ("Deloitte"). On June 7, 2006, the lead plaintiffs, the named plaintiffs and the class reached a settlement with the financial institutions. The District Court entered an order preliminarily approving the settlements and set a hearing date of November 10, 2006 to consider final approval of the settlements.
 
Pursuant to Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, all of the securities and derivative claims that were filed against the Company before the bankruptcy filings are automatically stayed and not proceeding as to the Company.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  After the alleged misconduct of certain members of the Rigas Family was publicly disclosed, three actions were filed in May and June 2002 against the Company by former shareholders of companies that the Company acquired, in whole or in part, through stock transactions. These actions allege that the Company improperly induced these former shareholders to enter into these stock transactions through misrepresentations and omissions, and the plaintiffs seek monetary damages and equitable relief through rescission of the underlying acquisition transactions.
Acquisition Actions.
 
Two of these proceedings have been filed with the American Arbitration Association alleging violations of federal and state securities laws, breaches of representations and warranties and fraud in the inducement. One of these proceedings seeks rescission, compensatory damages and pre-judgment relief, and the other seeks specific performance. The third action alleges fraud and seeks rescission, damages and attorneys' fees. This action was originally filed in a Colorado State Court, and subsequently was removed by the Company to the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The Colorado State Court action was closed administratively on July 16, 2004, subject to reopening if and when the automatic bankruptcy stay is lifted or for other good cause shown. These actions have been stayed pursuant to the automatic stay provisions of Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  Adelphia and ML Media Partners, L.P. ("ML Media") have been involved in a longstanding dispute concerning Century/ML Cable's management, the buy/sell rights of ML Media and various other matters.
ML Media Litigation.
 
In March 2000, ML Media brought suit against Century, Adelphia and Arahova Communications, Inc. ("Arahova") in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, seeking, among other things: (i) the dissolution of Century/ML Cable and the appointment of a receiver to sell Century/ML Cable's assets; (ii) if no receiver was appointed, an order authorizing ML Media to conduct an auction for the sale of Century/ML Cable's assets to an unrelated third party and enjoining Adelphia from interfering with or participating in that process; (iii) an order directing the defendants to comply with the Century/ML Cable joint venture agreement with respect to provisions relating to governance matters and the budget process; and (iv) compensatory and punitive damages. The parties negotiated a consent order that imposed various consultative and reporting requirements on Adelphia and Century as well as restrictions on Century's ability to make capital expenditures without ML Media's approval. Adelphia and Century were held in contempt of that order in early 2001.
 
In connection with the December 13, 2001 settlement of the above dispute, Adelphia, Century/ML Cable, ML Media and Highland Holdings, a general partnership then owned and controlled by members of the Rigas Family ("Highland"), entered into a Leveraged Recapitalization Agreement (the "Recap Agreement"), pursuant to which Century/ML Cable agreed to redeem ML Media's 50% interest in Century/ML Cable (the "Redemption") on or before September 30, 2002 for a purchase price between $275,000,000 and $279,800,000 depending on the timing of the Redemption, plus interest. Among other things, the Recap Agreement provided that: (i) Highland would
 
 
 
 
 
arrange debt financing for the Redemption; (ii) Highland, Adelphia and Century would jointly and severally guarantee debt service on debt financing for the Redemption on and after the closing of the Redemption; and (iii) Highland and Century would own 60% and 40% interests, respectively, in the recapitalized Century/ML Cable. Under the terms of the Recap Agreement, Century's 50% interest in Century/ML Cable was pledged to ML Media as collateral for the Company's obligations.
 
On September 30, 2002, Century/ML Cable filed a voluntary petition to reorganize under Chapter 11 in the Bankruptcy Court. Century/ML Cable was operating its business as a
debtor-in-possession.
 
By an order of the Bankruptcy Court dated September 17, 2003, Adelphia and Century rejected the Recap Agreement, effective as of such date.
 
Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML Cable and ML Media have been engaged in litigation regarding the enforceability of the Recap Agreement. On April 15, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court indicated that it would dismiss all counts of Adelphia's challenge to the enforceability of the Recap Agreement except for its allegation that ML Media aided and abetted a breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the execution of the Recap Agreement. The Bankruptcy Court also indicated that it would allow Century/ML Cable's counterclaim to avoid the Recap Agreement as a constructive fraudulent conveyance to proceed.
 
ML Media has alleged that it was entitled to elect recovery of either $279,800,000, plus costs and interest in exchange for its interest in Century/ML Cable, or up to the difference between $279,800,000 and the fair market value of its interest in Century/ML Cable, plus costs, interest and revival of the state court claims described above.
 
On June 3, 2005, Century entered into an interest acquisition agreement with San Juan Cable, LLC ("San Juan Cable"), Century/ML Cable, Century-ML Cable Corporation (a subsidiary of Century/ML Cable) and ML Media, (the "IAA"), pursuant to which Century and ML Media agreed to sell their interests in Century/ML Cable for $520,000,000 (subject to potential purchase price adjustments as defined in the IAA) to San Juan Cable. On August 9, 2005, Century/ML Cable filed its plan of reorganization (the "Century/ML Plan") and its related disclosure statement (the "Century/ML Disclosure Statement") with the Bankruptcy Court. On August 18, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Century/ML Disclosure Statement. On September 7, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Century/ML Plan, which is designed to satisfy the conditions of the IAA with San Juan Cable and provides that all third-party claims will either be paid in full or assumed by San Juan Cable under the terms set forth in the IAA. On October 31, 2005, the sale of Century/ML Cable to San Juan Cable (the "Century/ML Sale") was consummated and the Century/ML Plan became effective. Neither the Century/ML Sale nor the effectiveness of the Century/ML Plan resolved the pending litigation among Adelphia, Century, Highland, Century/ML Cable and ML Media. Upon consummation of the Century/ML Sale, one-half of the net proceeds was placed in an escrow account for the benefit of ML Media (the "ML Media Escrow") and one-half of the net proceeds was placed in an escrow account for the benefit of Century (the "Century Escrow"). Pursuant to the IAA and the Century/ML Plan, Adelphia was granted control over Century/ML Cable's counterclaims in the litigation. Adelphia has since withdrawn Century/ML Cable's counterclaim to avoid the Recap Agreement as a constructive fraudulent conveyance. On November 23, 2005, Adelphia and Century filed their first amended answer, affirmative defenses and counterclaims. On January 13, 2006, ML Media replied to Adelphia's and Century's amended counterclaims and moved for summary judgment against Adelphia and Century on both Adelphia's and Century's remaining counterclaims and the issue of Adelphia's and Century's liability. Adelphia and Century filed their response to ML Media's summary judgment motion, as well as cross-motions for summary judgment, on March 13, 2006.
 
Adelphia, Century, ML Media and the post-confirmation bankruptcy estate of Century/ML Cable (the "Estate") entered into a settlement agreement and mutual general release, dated as of May 11, 2006, which resolves all disputes among the parties (the "Settlement Agreement"). The Company recorded a loss of $64,038,000 related to the Settlement Agreement during the first quarter of 2006 in other income (expense), net. On May 22,
 
 
 
 
 
2006, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the Settlement Agreement (the "Approval Order"), which became final on June 2, 2006. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, (i) ML Media and Century have released the ML Media Escrow to ML Media; (ii) Adelphia and Century are obligated to perform all obligations of the sellers under the IAA and have the right to exercise substantially all of the rights of sellers under the IAA and to settle all claims against the Estate, (iii) ML Media transferred substantially all of its rights with respect to the IAA and the Estate (including the right to receive ML Media's portion of undistributed funds totaling approximately $23,000,000) to a new escrow account (the "New Escrow"), (iv) Adelphia and Century are obligated to indemnify ML Media against certain liabilities and expenses arising out of the IAA; (v) ML Media on the one hand, and Century and Adelphia on the other hand, will dismiss all pending litigation against each other, and mutual releases are now effective, (vi) Century made a payment to ML Media from the Century Escrow of $87,117,000 and (vii) the New Escrow and the balance of the Century Escrow, totaling $178,400,000 was released to Century.
 
Based on current facts, the Company does not anticipate that its obligations with respect to the IAA will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
 
  On December 29, 2003, the committee of holders of Adelphia's 6% and 3.25% convertible subordinated notes (collectively, the "Subordinated Notes"), together with the Bank of New York, the indenture trustee for the Subordinated Notes (collectively, the "X Clause Plaintiffs"), commenced an adversary proceeding against Adelphia in the Bankruptcy Court. The X Clause Plaintiffs' complaint sought a judgment declaring that the subordination provisions in the indentures for the Subordinated Notes were not applicable to an Adelphia plan of reorganization in which constituents receive common stock of Adelphia and that the Subordinated Notes are entitled to share pari passu in the distribution of any common stock of Adelphia given to holders of senior notes of Adelphia.
The X Clause Litigation.
ad hoc
 
The basis for the X Clause Plaintiffs' claim is a provision in the applicable indentures, commonly known as the "X Clause," which provides that any distributions under a plan of reorganization comprised solely of "Permitted Junior Securities" are not subject to the subordination provision of the Subordinated Notes indenture. The X Clause Plaintiffs asserted that, under their interpretation of the applicable indentures, a distribution of a single class of new common stock of Adelphia would meet the definition of "Permitted Junior Securities" set forth in the indentures, and therefore be exempt from subordination.
 
On February 6, 2004, Adelphia filed its answer to the complaint, denying all of its substantive allegations. Thereafter, both the X Clause Plaintiffs and Adelphia cross-moved for summary judgment with both parties arguing that their interpretation of the X Clause was correct as a matter of law. The indenture trustee for the Adelphia senior notes (the "Senior Notes Trustee") also intervened in the action and, like Adelphia, moved for summary judgment arguing that the X Clause Plaintiffs were subordinated to holders of senior notes with respect to any distribution of common stock under a plan of reorganization. In addition, the Creditors' Committee also moved to intervene and, thereafter, moved to dismiss the X Clause Plaintiffs' complaint on the grounds, among others, that it did not present a justiciable case or controversy and therefore was not ripe for adjudication. In a written decision, dated April 12, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court granted the Creditors' Committee's motion to dismiss without ruling on the merits of the various cross-motions for summary judgment. The Bankruptcy Court's dismissal of the action was without prejudice to the X Clause Plaintiffs' right to bring the action at a later date, if appropriate.
 
Subsequent to Adelphia entering into the Sale Transaction, the X Clause Plaintiffs asserted that the subordination provisions in the indentures for the Subordinated Notes also are not applicable to an Adelphia plan of reorganization in which constituents receive TWC Class A Common Stock and that the Subordinated Notes would therefore be entitled to share pari passu in the distribution of any such TWC Class A Common Stock given to holders of senior notes of Adelphia. The Senior Notes Trustee, together with certain other constituents, disputed this position.
 
 
 
 
 
On December 6, 2005, the X Clause Plaintiffs and the Debtors jointly filed a motion seeking that the Bankruptcy Court establish a pre-confirmation process for interested parties to litigate the X Clause dispute. By order dated January 11, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court found that the X Clause dispute was ripe for adjudication and directed interested parties to litigate the dispute prior to plan confirmation (the "X Litigation"). A hearing on the X Litigation was held on March 9 and 10, 2006. On April 6, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that the subordination provisions for the Subordinated Notes were enforceable in the context of the Debtors' plan of reorganization.
Clause Pre-Confirmation
Clause Pre-Confirmation
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On March 20, 2002, the Company commenced an action (the "California Cablevision Action") in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Western Division, seeking, among other things, declaratory and injunctive relief precluding the City of Thousand Oaks, California (the "City") from denying permits on the grounds that the Company failed to seek the City's prior approval of an asset purchase agreement (the "Asset Purchase Agreement"), dated December 17, 2001, between the Company and Verizon Media Ventures. Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, the Company acquired certain Verizon Media Ventures cable equipment and network system assets (the "Verizon Cable Assets") located in the City for use in the operation of the Company's cable business in the City.
Verizon Franchise Transfer Litigation.
 
On March 25, 2002, the City and Ventura County (the "County") commenced an action (the "Thousand Oaks Action") against the Company and Verizon Media Ventures in California State Court alleging that Verizon Media Ventures' entry into the Asset Purchase Agreement and conveyance of the Verizon Cable Assets constituted a breach of Verizon Media Ventures' cable franchises and that the Company's participation in the transaction amounted to actionable tortious interference with those franchises. The City and the County sought injunctive relief to halt the sale and transfer of the Verizon Cable Assets pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement and to compel the Company to treat the Verizon Cable Assets as a separate cable system.
 
On March 27, 2002, the Company and Verizon Media Ventures removed the Thousand Oaks Action to the United States District Court for the Central District of California, where it was consolidated with the California Cablevision Action.
 
On April 12, 2002, the district court conducted a hearing on the City's and County's application for a preliminary injunction and, on April 15, 2002, the district court issued a temporary restraining order in part, pending entry of a further order. On May 14, 2002, the district court issued a preliminary injunction and entered findings of fact and conclusions of law in support thereof (the "May 14, 2002 Order"). The May 14, 2002 Order, among other things: (i) enjoined the Company from integrating the Company's and Verizon Media Ventures' system assets serving subscribers in the City and the County; (ii) required the Company to return "ownership" of the Verizon Cable Assets to Verizon Media Ventures except that the Company was permitted to continue to "manage" the assets as Verizon Media Ventures' agent to the extent necessary to avoid disruption in services until Verizon Media Ventures chose to reenter the market or sell the assets; (iii) prohibited the Company from eliminating any programming options that had previously been selected by Verizon Media Ventures or from raising the rates charged by Verizon Media Ventures; and (iv) required the Company and Verizon Media Ventures to grant the City the County access to system records, contracts, personnel and facilities for the purpose of conducting an inspection of the then-current "state of the Verizon Media Ventures and the Company systems" in the City and the County. The Company appealed the May 14, 2002 Order and, on April 1, 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the May 14, 2002 Order, thus removing any restrictions that had been imposed by the district court against the Company's integration of the Verizon Cable Assets and remanded the actions back to the district court for further proceedings.
and/or
 
 
 
 
 
In September 2003, the City began refusing to grant the Company's construction permit requests, claiming that the Company could not integrate the acquired Verizon Cable Assets with the Company's existing cable system assets because the City had not approved the transaction between the Company and Verizon Media Ventures, as allegedly required under the City's cable ordinance.
 
Accordingly, on October 2, 2003, the Company filed a motion for a preliminary injunction in the district court seeking to enjoin the City from refusing to grant the Company's construction permit requests. On November 3, 2003, the district court granted the Company's motion for a preliminary injunction, finding that the Company had demonstrated "a strong likelihood of success on the merits." Thereafter, the parties agreed to informally stay the litigation pending negotiations between the Company and the City for the Company's renewal of its cable franchise, with the intent that such negotiations would also lead to a settlement of the pending litigation. However, on September 16, 2004, at the City's request, the court set certain procedural dates, including a trial date of July 12, 2005, which effectively re-opened the case to active litigation. Subsequently, the July 12, 2005 trial date was vacated pursuant to a stipulation and order. On July 11, 2005, the district court referred the matter to a United States magistrate judge for settlement discussions. A settlement conference was held on October 20, 2005, before the magistrate judge. After further negotiations, the Company reached agreement on the terms of settlements with both the City and County, subject to approval of such settlement agreements by the Bankruptcy Court. On February 21, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court approved a settlement between the Company and the City that resolves the pending litigation and all past franchise non-compliance issues. On March 27, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court approved a settlement between the Company and the County that resolves the pending litigation and all past franchise non-compliance issues. Pursuant to these settlements, the parties filed a stipulation that dismissed with prejudice all claims brought by the City and County against Adelphia (as well as the claims brought by Adelphia against the City), and the City and County have consented to the transfer of the Verizon Cable Assets in connection with the Sale Transaction.
 
  On or about August 30, 2002, Gerald Dibbern, individually and purportedly on behalf of a class of similarly situated subscribers nationwide, commenced an adversary proceeding in the Bankruptcy Court against Adelphia asserting claims for violation of the Pennsylvania Consumer Protection Law, breach of contract, fraud, unjust enrichment, constructive trust, and an accounting. This complaint alleges that Adelphia charged, and continues to charge, subscribers for cable set-top box equipment, including set-top boxes and remote controls, that is unnecessary for subscribers that receive only basic cable service and have cable-ready televisions. The complaint further alleges that Adelphia failed to adequately notify affected subscribers that they no longer needed to rent this equipment. The complaint seeks a number of remedies including treble money damages under the Pennsylvania Consumer Protection Law, declaratory and injunctive relief, imposition of a constructive trust on Adelphia's assets, and punitive damages, together with costs and attorneys' fees.
Dibbern Adversary Proceeding.
 
On or about December 13, 2002, Adelphia moved to dismiss the adversary proceeding on several bases, including that the complaint fails to state a claim for which relief can be granted and that the matters alleged therein should be resolved in the claims process. The Bankruptcy Court granted Adelphia's motion to dismiss and dismissed the adversary proceeding on May 3, 2005. In the Bankruptcy Court, Mr. Dibbern has also objected to the provisional disallowance of his proofs of claim, which comprised a portion of the Bankruptcy Court's May 3, 2005 order. Mr. Dibbern appealed the May 3, 2005 order dismissing his adversary proceeding to the District Court. In an August 30, 2005 decision, the District Court affirmed the dismissal of Mr. Dibbern's claims for violation of the Pennsylvania Consumer Protection Law, a constructive trust and an accounting, but reversed the dismissal of Mr. Dibbern's breach of contract, fraud and unjust enrichment claims. These three claims will proceed in the Bankruptcy Court. Adelphia filed its answer on October 14, 2005 and discovery commenced. On March 15, 2006, the Debtors moved the Bankruptcy Court for an order staying discovery in several adversary proceedings, including
 
 
 
 
 
the Dibbern adversary proceeding. On March 16, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court granted the order staying discovery in the Dibbern adversary proceeding.
 
On January 9, 2006, the Debtors filed a Notice of Estimation of Disputed Claims seeking to place a maximum allowed amount of $500,000 on the claims filed by Dibbern. On January 17, 2006, the Debtors filed their tenth omnibus claims objection to certain claims, including claims filed by Dibbern totaling more than $7.9 billion (including duplicative claims). Through the objections, the Debtors sought to disallow and expunge each of the Dibbern claims. On February 7, 2006, Dibbern filed an objection to the Notice of Estimation of Disputed Claims. On February 23, 2006, Dibbern responded to the Debtors' objections and requested that the Bankruptcy Court require the Debtors to establish additional reserves for Dibbern's claims or to reclassify the claims as claims against the operating companies. On April 21, 2006, the Debtors filed a motion establishing supplemental procedures for estimating certain disputed claims, including Dibbern's claims. Dibbern objected to the Debtors' motion on April 27, 2006. On May 4, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order granting the motion establishing supplemental procedures for estimating certain disputed claims, and on May 9, 2006, the Debtors filed an estimation notice seeking to estimate the claims filed by Dibbern for purposes of plan feasibility and reserves only. The Debtors and Dibbern then entered into a stipulation and agreed order on May 25, 2006 to cap Dibbern's claims at $15,000,000 for purposes of plan feasibility and reserves only. The Company has not recorded any loss contingencies associated with Dibbern's claims. The Bankruptcy Court signed the stipulation and agreed order on July 19, 2006.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Court order approving the DIP Facility (the "Final DIP Order"), the Company made certain acknowledgments (the "Acknowledgments") with respect to the extent of its indebtedness under the pre-petition credit facilities, as well as the validity and extent of the liens and claims of the lenders under such facilities. However, given the circumstances surrounding the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Final DIP Order preserved the Debtors' right to prosecute, among other things, avoidance actions and claims against the pre-petition lenders and to bring litigation against the pre-petition lenders based on any wrongful conduct. The Final DIP Order also provided that any official committee appointed in the Chapter 11 Cases would have the right to request that it be granted standing by the Bankruptcy Court to challenge the Acknowledgments and to bring claims belonging to the Company and its estates against the pre-petition lenders.
Creditors' Committee Lawsuit Against Pre-Petition Banks.
 
Pursuant to a stipulation dated July 2, 2003, among the Debtors, the Creditors' Committee and the Equity Committee, the parties agreed, subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court, that the Creditors' Committee would have derivative standing to file and prosecute claims against the pre-petition lenders, on behalf of the Debtors, and granted the Equity Committee leave to seek to intervene in any such action. This stipulation also preserves the Company's ability to compromise and settle the claims against the pre-petition lenders. By motion dated July 6, 2003, the Creditors' Committee moved for Bankruptcy Court approval of this stipulation and simultaneously filed a complaint (the "Bank Complaint") against the agents and lenders under certain pre-petition credit facilities, and related entities, asserting, among other things, that these entities knew of, and participated in, the alleged improper actions by certain members of the Rigas Family and Rigas Family Entities (the "Pre-petition Lender Litigation"). The Debtors are nominal plaintiffs in this action.
 
The Bank Complaint contains 52 claims for relief to redress the claimed wrongs and abuses committed by the agents, lenders and other entities. The Bank Complaint seeks to, among other things: (i) recover as fraudulent transfers the principal and interest paid by the Company to the defendants; (ii) avoid as fraudulent obligations the Company's obligations, if any, to repay the defendants; (iii) recover damages for breaches of fiduciary duties to the
 
 
 
 
 
Company and for aiding and abetting fraud and breaches of fiduciary duties by the Rigas Family; (iv) equitably disallow, subordinate or recharacterize each of the defendants' claims in the Chapter 11 Cases; (v) avoid and recover certain allegedly preferential transfers made to certain defendants; and (vi) recover damages for violations of the Bank Holding Company Act. Numerous motions seeking to defeat the Pre-petition Lender Litigation were filed by the defendants and the Bankruptcy Court held a hearing on such issues. The Equity Committee filed a motion seeking authority to bring an intervenor complaint (the "Intervenor Complaint") against the defendants seeking to, among other things, assert additional contract claims against the investment banking affiliates of the agent banks and claims under the RICO Act against various defendants (the "Additional Claims").
 
On October 3 and November 7, 2003, certain of the defendants filed both objections to approval of the stipulation and motions to dismiss the bulk of the claims for relief contained in the Bank Complaint and the Intervenor Complaint. The Bankruptcy Court heard oral argument on these objections and motions on December 20 and 21, 2004. In a memorandum decision dated August 30, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court granted the motion of the Creditors' Committee for standing to prosecute the claims asserted by the Creditors' Committee. The Bankruptcy Court also granted a separate motion of the Equity Committee to file and prosecute the Additional Claims on behalf of the Debtors. The motions to dismiss are still pending. Subsequent to issuance of this decision, several defendants filed, among other things, motions to transfer the Pre-petition Lender Litigation from the Bankruptcy Court to the District Court. By order dated February 9, 2006, the Pre-petition Lender Litigation was transferred to the District Court, except with respect to the pending motions to dismiss.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  Pursuant to the Agreement of Limited Partnership of Devon Mobile Communications, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("Devon Mobile"), dated as of November 3, 1995, the Company owned a 49.9% limited partnership interest in Devon Mobile, which, through its subsidiaries, held licenses to operate regional wireless telephone businesses in several states. Devon Mobile had certain business and contractual relationships with the Company and with former subsidiaries or divisions of the Company that were spun off as TelCove, Inc. in January 2002.
Devon Mobile Claim.
 
In late May 2002, the Company notified Devon G.P., Inc. ("Devon G.P."), the general partner of Devon Mobile, that it would likely terminate certain discretionary operational funding to Devon Mobile. On August 19, 2002, Devon Mobile and certain of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the "Devon Mobile Bankruptcy Court").
 
On January 17, 2003, the Company filed proofs of claim and interest against Devon Mobile and its subsidiaries for approximately $129,000,000 in debt and equity claims, as well as an additional claim of approximately $35,000,000 relating to the Company's guarantee of certain Devon Mobile obligations (collectively, the "Company Claims"). By order dated October 1, 2003, the Devon Mobile Bankruptcy Court confirmed Devon Mobile's First Amended Joint Plan of Liquidation (the "Devon Plan"). The Devon Plan became effective on October 17, 2003, at which time the Company's limited partnership interest in Devon Mobile was extinguished. Under the Devon Plan, the Devon Mobile Communications Liquidating Trust (the "Devon Liquidating Trust") succeeded to all of the rights of Devon Mobile, including prosecution of causes of action against Adelphia.
 
On or about January 8, 2004, the Devon Liquidating Trust filed proofs of claim in the Chapter 11 Cases seeking, in the aggregate, approximately $100,000,000 in respect of, among other things, certain cash transfers alleged to be either preferential or fraudulent and claims for deepening insolvency, alter ego liability and breach of an alleged duty to fund Devon Mobile operations, all of which arose prior to the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases (the "Devon Claims"). On June 21, 2004, the Devon Liquidating Trust commenced an adversary proceeding
 
 
 
 
 
in the Chapter 11 Cases (the "Devon Adversary Proceeding") through the filing of a complaint (the "Devon Complaint") which incorporates the Devon Claims. On August 20, 2004, the Company filed an answer and counterclaim in response to the Devon Complaint denying the allegations made in the Devon Complaint and asserting various counterclaims against the Devon Liquidating Trust, which encompassed the Company Claims. On November 22, 2004, the Company filed a motion for leave (the "Motion for Leave") to file a third party complaint for contribution and indemnification against Devon G.P. and Lisa-Gaye Shearing Mead, the sole owner and President of Devon G.P. By endorsed order entered January 12, 2005, Judge Robert E. Gerber, the judge presiding over the Chapter 11 Cases and the Devon Adversary Proceeding, granted a recusal request made by counsel to Devon G.P. On January 21, 2005, the Devon Adversary Proceeding was reassigned from Judge Gerber to Judge Cecelia G. Morris. By an order dated April 5, 2005, Judge Morris denied the Motion for Leave and a subsequent motion for reconsideration.
 
On March 6, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court issued a memorandum decision granting Adelphia summary judgment on all counts of the Devon Complaint except for the fraudulent conveyance/breach of limited partnership claim. The Bankruptcy Court denied in its entirety the summary judgment motion filed by the Devon Liquidating Trust. Trial commenced on April 17, 2006. On April 18, 2006, the parties agreed on the record in the Bankruptcy Court to settle their disputes. The Devon Liquidating Trust agreed to release all claims it has against the Company, and the Company agreed to release all claims it has against the Devon Liquidating Trust. Neither party will pay any money to the other party as a result of this settlement.
 
The Company and the Devon Liquidating Trust are in the process of documenting the settlement they have reached. The settlement is subject to Bankruptcy Court approval.
 
  On January 13, 2003, Niagara Frontier Hockey, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership owned by the Rigas Family ("NFHLP") and certain of its subsidiaries (the "NFHLP Debtors") filed voluntary petitions to reorganize under Chapter 11 in the United States Bankruptcy Court of the Western District of New York (the "NFHLP Bankruptcy Court") seeking protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws. Certain of the NFHLP Debtors entered into an agreement dated March 13, 2003 for the sale of certain assets, including the Buffalo Sabres National Hockey League team, and the assumption of certain liabilities. On October 3, 2003, the NFHLP Bankruptcy Court approved the NFHLP joint plan of liquidation. The NFHLP Debtors filed a complaint, dated November 4, 2003, against, among others, Adelphia and the Creditors' Committee seeking to enforce certain prior stipulations and orders of the NFHLP Bankruptcy Court against Adelphia and the Creditors' Committee related to the waiver of Adelphia's right to participate in certain sale proceeds resulting from the sale of assets. Certain of the NFHLP Debtors' pre-petition lenders, which are also defendants in the adversary proceeding, have filed cross-complaints against Adelphia and the Creditors' Committee asking the NFHLP Bankruptcy Court to enjoin Adelphia and the Creditors' Committee from prosecuting their claims against those pre-petition lenders. Although proceedings as to the complaint itself have been suspended, the parties have continued to litigate the cross-complaints. Discovery closed on November 1, 2005 and motions for summary judgment were filed on January 24, 2006, with additional briefing on the motions to follow.
NFHLP Claim.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On November 6, 2002, Adelphia sued Deloitte, Adelphia's former independent auditors, in the Court of Common Pleas for Philadelphia County. The lawsuit seeks damages against Deloitte based on Deloitte's alleged failure to conduct an audit in compliance with generally accepted auditing standards, and for providing an opinion that Adelphia's financial statements conformed with GAAP when Deloitte allegedly knew or should have known that they did not conform. The complaint further alleges that Deloitte knew or should have known of alleged misconduct and misappropriation by the Rigas Family, and other alleged acts of self-
Adelphia's Lawsuit Against Deloitte.
 
 
 
 
 
dealing, but failed to report these alleged misdeeds to the Board or others who could have and would have stopped the Rigas Family's misconduct. The complaint raises claims of professional negligence, breach of contract, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation and contribution.
 
Deloitte filed preliminary objections seeking to dismiss the complaint, which were overruled by the court by order dated June 11, 2003. On September 15, 2003, Deloitte filed an answer, a new matter and various counterclaims in response to the complaint. In its counterclaims, Deloitte asserted causes of action against Adelphia for breach of contract, fraud, negligent misrepresentation and contribution. Also on September 15, 2003, Deloitte filed a related complaint naming as additional defendants John J. Rigas, Timothy J. Rigas, Michael J. Rigas, and James P. Rigas. In this complaint, Deloitte alleges causes of action for fraud, negligent misrepresentation and contribution. The Rigas defendants, in turn, have claimed a right to contribution indemnity from Adelphia for any damages Deloitte may recover against the Rigas defendants. On January 9, 2004, Adelphia answered Deloitte's counterclaims. Deloitte moved to stay discovery in this action until completion of the Rigas Criminal Action, which Adelphia opposed. Following the motion, discovery was effectively stayed for 60 days but has now commenced. Deloitte and Adelphia have exchanged documents and are engaged in substantive discovery. On May 25, 2006, the court extended the discovery deadline to September 5, 2006 and ordered that the case be ready for trial by January 2, 2007.
and/or
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  Substantial disputes exist between creditors of the Debtors that principally affect the recoveries to the holders of certain notes due September 15, 2007, issued by FrontierVision Holdings, L.P. (an indirect subsidiary of Adelphia), the creditors of Olympus Communications, L.P. ("Olympus") and the creditors of Arahova and Adelphia (the "Inter-Creditor Dispute"). On November 7, 2005, the committee of Arahova noteholders (the "Arahova Noteholders' Committee") filed four emergency motions for relief with the Bankruptcy Court seeking, among other things, to: (i) appoint a trustee for Arahova and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Arahova/Century Debtors") who may not receive payment in full under the Debtors' plan of reorganization or, alternatively, appoint independent officers and directors, with the assistance of separately retained counsel, to represent the Arahova/Century Debtors in connection with the Inter-Creditor Dispute; (ii) disqualify Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP ("WF&G") from representing the Arahova/Century Debtors in the Chapter 11 Cases and the balance of the Debtors with respect to the Inter-Creditor Dispute; (iii) terminate the exclusive periods during which the Arahova/Century Debtors may file and solicit acceptances of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization and related disclosure statement (the previous three motions, the "Arahova Emergency Motions"); and (iv) authorize the Arahova Noteholders' Committee to file confidential supplements containing certain information. The Bankruptcy Court held a sealed hearing on the Arahova Emergency Motions on January 4, 5 and 6, 2006.
Arahova Motions.
ad hoc
 
Pursuant to an order dated January 26, 2006 (the "Arahova Order"), the Bankruptcy Court: (i) denied the motion to terminate the Arahova/Century Debtors' exclusivity; (ii) denied the motion to appoint a trustee for the Arahova/Century Debtors, or, alternatively, to require the appointment of nonstatutory fiduciaries; and (iii) granted the motion for an order disqualifying WF&G from representing the Arahova/Century Debtors and any of the other Debtors in the Inter-Creditor Dispute. Without finding that present management or WF&G have in any way acted inappropriately to date, the Bankruptcy Court found that WF&G's voluntary neutrality in such disputes should be mandatory, except that the Bankruptcy Court stated that WF&G could continue to act as a facilitator privately to assist creditor groups that are parties to the Inter-Creditor Dispute reach a settlement. The Arahova Noteholders' Committee appealed the Arahova Order to the District Court, and on March 30, 2006, the District Court affirmed the Arahova Order. On April 7, 2006, the Arahova Noteholders' Committee appealed the Arahova Order to the Second Circuit. On July 26, 2006, the Second Circuit entered a stipulation and order between the Debtors and the Arahova
 
 
 
 
 
Noteholders' Committee withdrawing the Arahova Noteholders' Committee's appeal from active consideration. The Arahova Noteholders' Committee may reactivate its appeal on or before October 20, 2006.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  Pursuant to the asset purchase agreement between TW NY and Adelphia, the Company filed Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") Form 394 franchise transfer requests with the City of Martinsville, Virginia ("Martinsville") and County of Henry, Virginia ("Henry County"). In response to the Company's request for franchise transfer approval, Martinsville asserted a right under its franchise agreement with Multi-Channel T.V. Cable Company, an Adelphia subsidiary and a Debtor ("Multi-Channel T.V."), to purchase the Adelphia systems serving its community. In addition, Henry County allegedly denied the Company's request for franchise transfer approval within 120 days of such request and thereafter purportedly assigned to Martinsville its purported right to purchase the Adelphia systems serving its community under its franchise agreement with Multi-Channel T.V. As of June 30, 2006, the combined number of Company subscribers in the two communities was approximately 16,000.
City of Martinsville and Henry County, VirginiaRight of Purchase Claim.
 
On April 26, 2006, Martinsville Cable, Inc. ("Martinsville Cable") filed a complaint against Multi-Channel T.V. with the Bankruptcy Court in the Chapter 11 Cases seeking, among other things, a declaration that the alleged purchase rights of Martinsville and Henry County (which purportedly were assigned to Martinsville) are valid and enforceable. The complaint also seeks an order requiring Multi-Channel T.V. to specifically perform pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreements to sell such systems to Martinsville Cable or, in the event the request for specific performance is denied, judgment for all damages suffered by Martinsville Cable as a result of Multi-Channel T.V.'s alleged material breach of the franchise agreements. The complaint further seeks a permanent injunction prohibiting Multi-Channel T.V. from transferring such systems to TW NY or any third party. The Company believes that there are significant legal barriers to Martinsville enforcing its alleged purchase rights under the Bankruptcy Code, the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended, and Virginia state law.
 
On June 14, 2006, Martinsville Cable filed a complaint against TW NY and TWC in Virginia state court seeking a declaratory judgment that the alleged purchase rights are enforceable and have been properly exercised with regard to a subsequent proposed sale of the Martinsville and Henry County cable assets by TW NY to Comcast (the "Virginia Action"). The complaint in the Virginia action also requests an injunction prohibiting TW NY and TWC from transferring the Martinsville and Henry County cable assets to Comcast or any other third party, in the event that TW NY acquires the relevant cable systems from Adelphia. On June 26, 2006, the action was removed from Virginia state court to the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia (the "Virginia District Court").
 
On July 20, 2006, the Virginia District Court entered an agreed order in the Virginia Action (the "Agreed Order") providing that Comcast Cable Communications Holdings, Inc. ("Comcast Cable Communications") and Comcast of Georgia, Inc. ("Comcast Georgia," together with Comcast Cable Communications, "Comcast Cable"), each a subsidiary of Comcast, will operate the cable systems in such communities from the Effective Date until the resolution of the Virginia Action. Pursuant to the Agreed Order, during such interim period, Comcast Cable is prohibited from selling any of the system assets or making any physical, material, administrative or operational change that would tend to (i) degrade the quality of services to the subscribers, (ii) decrease income or (iii) diminish the material value of the system assets without the prior written consent of Martinsville Cable, Martinsville and Henry County.
 
On August 1, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court entered a stipulated order by the parties providing for the interim management of the systems by Comcast Cable upon terms and conditions substantially similar to those in the
 
 
 
 
 
Virginia District Court Agreed Order. The Company will continue to own the systems until a final resolution of Martinsville Cable's Bankruptcy Court complaint.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On May 30, 2006, The America Channel, LLC ("TAC"), a Delaware limited liability company organized to own and operate a television programming network, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota (the "Minnesota District Court") against TWC, TW NY, Time Warner and Comcast (together, the "Purchasers"), alleging that the Purchasers had violated sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act and section 7 of the Clayton Antitrust Act (the "TAC Action"). TAC alleged that completion of the Sale Transaction by the Purchasers, as well as certain other transactions, would constitute further violations of the Sherman and Clayton Antitrust Acts. TAC, among other things, requested as relief an injunction enjoining the Purchasers from consummating the Sale Transaction.
The America Channel Litigation.
 
On June 1, 2006, the Debtors filed an adversary proceeding in the Bankruptcy Court seeking (i) a declaration that TAC and its attorneys (the "TAC Defendants") impermissibly interfered with the Bankruptcy Court's jurisdiction and mandate, (ii) a declaration that the TAC Defendants should have commenced the TAC Action, if at all, in the Bankruptcy Court, (iii) a declaration that the TAC Action violates the automatic stay embodied in 11 U.S.C. Section 362(a)(3), and (iv) a preliminary and permanent injunction enjoining the TAC Defendants from interfering with the Bankruptcy Court's jurisdiction over the Debtors' Chapter 11 Cases and the Sale Transaction by prosecuting the TAC Action in any court other than the Bankruptcy Court.
 
On June 2, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court issued a temporary restraining order that, among other things, prohibited the TAC Defendants from continuing any further proceedings in the TAC Action. Following the Bankruptcy Court's issuance of the temporary restraining order, also on June 2, 2006, the TAC Defendants filed, in the Minnesota District Court, a motion to vacate the Bankruptcy Court's June 2, 2006 order (the "Motion to Vacate"). On June 5, 2006, on the Debtors' motion, the Bankruptcy Court held the TAC Defendants in contempt for violating the temporary restraining order by filing the Motion to Vacate.
 
On June 19, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court heard argument from the Debtors and the TAC Defendants on the Debtors' motion for a preliminary injunction. The Debtors and the TAC Defendants agreed that any preliminary injunction entered would be treated as a permanent injunction. On June 26, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court entered a judgment declaring that the TAC Defendants' efforts to enjoin the Sale Transaction in the TAC Action violated the automatic stay under 11 U.S.C. section 362(a)(3). Also on this date, the Bankruptcy Court entered a permanent injunction (the "TAC Injunction") enjoining the TAC Defendants from: (a) continuation of any further proceedings in the TAC Action; (b) taking any other action, with the exception of any action taken in the Bankruptcy Court, to interfere with the Debtors' disposition of their assets; and (c) taking any other action, with the exception of any action taken in the Bankruptcy Court, to interfere with the Bankruptcy Court's jurisdiction over the Debtors' chapter 11 cases. The TAC Injunction does, however, permit the TAC Defendants to proceed with the TAC Action in the Minnesota District Court, or elsewhere, but only to the extent that the TAC Defendants seek no relief other than: (a) damages; (b) an order requiring the Debtors the Purchasers to carry TAC on their cable systems; (c) post-Sale Transaction divestiture.
and/or
and/or
 
On June 26, 2006, the TAC Defendants filed a notice of appeal from the Bankruptcy Court's judgment and permanent injunction. On July 12, 2006, the TAC Defendants filed a notice of motion to expedite in the District Court. On July 25, 2006, the District Court denied the TAC Defendants' motion to expedite and set a briefing schedule whereby the TAC Defendants would submit their appellate brief on or before August 1, 2006, the Debtors would submit their response brief on or before August 15, 2006, and the TAC Defendants would submit their reply
 
 
 
 
 
brief on or before August 22, 2006. No relief has been granted on the TAC Defendants' appeal of the Bankruptcy Court's judgment and permanent injunction.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On June 22, 2006, the Debtors filed an adversary proceeding against Motorola, Inc. and certain subsidiaries of Motorola, Inc. ("Motorola"), as well as three transferees of claims filed by Motorola (the "Claim Transferees"), in the Bankruptcy Court. The complaint seeks relief for five causes of action. First, the complaint seeks damages from Motorola for aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duty by the Company's former management in manipulating the Company's consolidated financial statements and performance results for the fiscal years 2000 and 2001. Second, the complaint seeks avoidance and recovery of preferential and fraudulent transfers of more than $60,000,000 made to Motorola pursuant to Sections 544, 547, 548 and 550 of the Bankruptcy Code and applicable state law. Third, the complaint seeks avoidance of purported (but unperfected) liens asserted by Motorola against property of the Debtors pursuant to Section 544 of the Bankruptcy Code. Fourth, the complaint seeks disallowance of some or all of the claims asserted by Motorola and the Claim Transferees (totaling in excess of $60,000,000) in the Debtors' bankruptcy proceedings to the extent that the claims are improperly asserted against subsidiaries of Adelphia rather than Adelphia. Fifth, the complaint seeks equitable subordination under Bankruptcy Code Section 510(c) of any claims filed by Motorola, including claims held by the Claim Transferees, to the extent, if any, that such claims are allowed.
The Company's Claims Against Motorola, Inc.
 
The Company cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the possible effects on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  On October 29, 2004, Adelphia filed a motion to postpone the conversion of Adelphia's 7.5% Series E Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series E Preferred Stock") into shares of Class A Common Stock from November 15, 2004 to February 1, 2005, to the extent such conversion was not already stayed by the Debtors' bankruptcy filing, in order to protect the Debtors' net operating loss carryovers. On November 18, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the postponement effective November 14, 2004.
Series E and F Preferred Stock Conversion Postponements.
 
Adelphia has subsequently entered into several stipulations further postponing, to the extent applicable, the conversion date of the Series E Preferred Stock. Adelphia has also entered into several stipulations postponing, to the extent applicable, the conversion date of Adelphia's 7.5% Series F Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which was initially convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock on February 1, 2005.
 
  On June 2, 2004, the Company orally self-disclosed potential violations of environmental laws to the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and notified EPA that it intended to conduct an audit of its operations to identify and correct violations of certain environmental requirements. The potential violations primarily concern reporting and record keeping requirements arising from the Company's storage and use of petroleum and batteries to provide backup power for its cable operations. On July 6, 2006, the Company executed an agreement with EPA to settle EPA's civil and administrative claims with respect to environmental violations that are identified by the Company, disclosed to EPA, and corrected in accordance with the agreement. The agreement caps the Company's total liability for civil and administrative fines for such violations at $233,000 subject to certain restrictions. On July 24, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court approved the agreement. Pursuant to the agreement, on July 26, 2006, the Company submitted the results of its environmental self-audit to EPA.
EPA Self Disclosure and Audit.
 
Based on current facts, the Company does not anticipate that this matter will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
 
 
 
 
 
  The Company may be subject to various other legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Management believes, based on information currently available, that the amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to any of these other actions will not materially affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
Other.
 
 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 
The table below sets forth the Company's supplemental cash flow information (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Stock-based Compensation
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, (SFAS No. 123"), and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, ("APB Opinion No. 25"), and related interpretations. requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be valued at fair value on the date of grant, and to be expensed over the employee's requisite service period. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of using the modified prospective application method. Under the modified prospective application method, the Company is required to recognize compensation cost for all stock option awards granted after January 1, 2006 and for all existing awards for which the requisite service had not been rendered as of the date of adoption.
SFAS No. 123-R,
Share-Based Payment
("SFAS No. 123-R"),
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
SFAS No. 123-R
SFAS No. 123-R
 
As of January 1, 2006, there were 23,250 fully vested options outstanding under the Company's only share based payment plan, the 1998 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "1998 Plan"). No awards were issued since 2001 pursuant to the 1998 Plan and the Company does not intend to grant any new awards pursuant to the 1998 Plan. As no share based awards were granted during the three-month and six-month periods ending June 30, 2006, the adoption of did not have any impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
SFAS No. 123-R
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") reached a consensus on Issue provides guidance in assessing when a general partner controls and consolidates its investment in a limited partnership or similar entity. The general partner is assumed to control the limited partnership unless the limited partners have substantive kick-out or participating rights. The provisions of were required to be applied beginning June 30, 2005 for partnerships formed or modified subsequent to June 30, 2005 and were effective for general partners in all other limited partnerships beginning January 1, 2006. had no impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
No. 04-5,
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
("EITF 04-5").
EITF 04-5
EITF 04-5
EITF 04-5
 
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation 48, ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority. The recently issued literature also provides guidance on the
Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties
 
 
 
 
 
derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN 48 also includes guidance concerning accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods and increases the level of disclosures associated with any recorded income tax uncertainties. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2006. Management has not yet determined the impact, if any, of adopting the provisions of FIN 48 on the Company's financial position and results of operations.
 
Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share ("EPS")
 
The Company uses the two-class method for computing basic and diluted EPS. Basic and diluted EPS for the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock was computed by allocating the income applicable to common stockholders to Class A common stockholders and Class B common stockholders as if all of the earnings for the period had been distributed. This allocation, and the calculation of the basic and diluted net income (loss) applicable to Class A common stockholders and Class B common stockholders, do not reflect any adjustment for interest on the convertible subordinated notes and do not reflect any declared or accumulated dividends on the convertible preferred stock, as neither has been recognized since the Petition Date. Under the two-class method for computing basic and diluted EPS, losses have not been allocated to each class of common stock, as security holders are not obligated to fund such losses. As the Company has net losses in 2006, there are no differences between basic and diluted EPS in 2006. The following table provides the income applicable to common stockholders that has been allocated to the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock for purposes of computing basic and diluted EPS in 2005 (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Diluted EPS of Class A and Class B Common Stock considers the potential impact of dilutive securities. For the three- and six- month periods ended June 30, 2006, the inclusion of potential common shares would have had an anti-dilutive effect. Accordingly, potential common shares of 86,789,246 and 86,791,573 were excluded from the diluted EPS calculations for the three- and six- month periods ended June 30, 2006, respectively. For the three- and six- month periods ended June 30, 2005, 233,753 and 267,204, respectively, of potential common shares subject to stock options have been excluded from the diluted EPS calculation as the option exercise price is greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Stock.
 
The potential common shares at June 30, 2006 and 2005 consist of Adelphia's 5/% Series D Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series D Preferred Stock"), 7/% Series E Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series E Preferred Stock"), 7/% Series F Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series F Preferred Stock"), 6% subordinated convertible notes, 3.25% subordinated convertible notes and stock options. As a result of the filing of the Debtors' Chapter 11 Cases, Adelphia, as of the Petition Date, discontinued accruing dividends on all of its outstanding preferred stock and has excluded those dividends from the diluted EPS calculations. The debt
1
2
1
2
1
2
 
 
 
 
 
instruments are convertible into shares of Class A and Class B Common Stock. The preferred securities and stock options are convertible into Class A Common Stock. The basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding used for EPS computations for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
Intangible Assets
 
The carrying value and accumulated amortization of intangible assets are summarized below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Goodwill and franchise rights are not amortized as their lives have been determined to be indefinite. Customer relationships represent the value attributed to customer relationships acquired in business combinations and are amortized over a period. The Company amortizes its customer relationships using the double declining balance method, which reflects the attrition patterns of its customer relationships. Amortization of intangible assets aggregated $26,948,000 and $29,061,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and $54,566,000 and $58,927,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
10-year
 
 
 
 
 
Accrued Liabilities
 
The details of accrued liabilities are set forth below (amounts in thousands):
 
 
Tax Matters
 
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $21,418,000 and $71,441,000 for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively. For the three months ended June 30, 2006, the Company calculated its income tax provision based on the actual loss before income taxes, as opposed to the projected annual effective rate calculation used for the three months ended March 31, 2006, which resulted in an income tax provision of $50,023,000. As a result of the Sale Transaction, the Company no longer believes it can reliably estimate its projected effective tax rate for the year given the uncertainties with respect to the confirmation of a plan of reorganization, the anticipated implementation of liquidation accounting in the third quarter and other related matters. Accordingly, calculating the income tax provision on a basis results in a more meaningful presentation in the financial statements. Income tax expense for 2006 and 2005 primarily relates to the increase in the Company's deferred tax liability for franchise rights and goodwill intangible assets that are not amortized for financial reporting purposes, but are amortized for income tax purposes.
year-to-date
year-to-date
 
Transactions with Other Officers and Directors
 
In a letter agreement between Adelphia and FPL Group, Inc. ("FPL Group") dated January 21, 1999, Adelphia agreed to (i) repurchase 20,000 shares of 8/% Series C Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series C Preferred Stock") and 1,091,524 shares of Class A Common Stock owned by Telesat Cablevision, Inc., a subsidiary of FPL Group ("Telesat") and (ii) transfer all of the outstanding common stock of West Boca Security, Inc. ("WB Security"), a subsidiary of Olympus, to FPL Group in exchange for FPL Group's 50% voting interest and 1/3 economic interest in Olympus. The Company owned the economic and voting interests in Olympus that were not then owned by FPL Group. At the time this agreement was entered into, Dennis Coyle, then a member of the Adelphia Board of Directors, was the General Counsel and Secretary of FPL Group. WB Security was a subsidiary of Olympus and WB Security's sole asset was a $108,000,000 note receivable (the "WB Note") from a subsidiary of Olympus that was secured by the FPL Group's ownership interest in Olympus and due September 1, 2004. On January 29, 1999, Adelphia purchased all of the aforementioned shares of Series C Preferred Stock and Class A Common Stock described above from Telesat for aggregate cash consideration of $149,213,000, and on October 1, 1999, the Company acquired FPL Group's interest in Olympus in exchange for all of the outstanding common stock of WB Security. The acquired shares of Class A Common Stock are presented as treasury stock in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The acquired shares of Series C Preferred Stock were returned to their original status of authorized but unissued. On June 24, 2004, the Creditors' Committee filed an adversary proceeding in the Bankruptcy Court, among other things, to avoid, recover and preserve the cash paid by Adelphia pursuant to the repurchase of its Series C Preferred Stock and Class A Common Stock together with all interest paid with respect to such repurchase. A hearing date relating to such adversary proceeding has not yet been set. Interest
1
8
 
 
 
 
 
on the WB Note is calculated at a rate of 6% per annum (or after default at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 5%). FPL Group has the right, upon at least 60 days prior written notice, to require repayment of the principal and accrued interest on the WB Note on or after July 1, 2002. As of June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the aggregate principal and interest due to the FPL Group pursuant to the WB Note was $127,537,000. The Company has not accrued interest on the WB Note for periods subsequent to the Petition Date. To date, the Company has not yet received a notice from FPL Group requiring the repayment of the WB Note.

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Comcast Corporation:
 
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheets of the Special-Purpose Combined Carve Out Financial Statements of the Los Angeles, Dallas and Cleveland Cable System Operations (A Carve Out of Comcast Corporation) (the "Exchange Systems") as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related combined statements of operations, invested equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These combined financial statements are the responsibility of Comcast Corporation's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Exchange Systems are not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Exchange Systems' internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the combined financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such combined financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Exchange Systems as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
As discussed in Note 2, the Exchange Systems are an integrated business of Comcast and are not a stand-alone entity. The combined financial statements of the Exchange Systems reflect the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses directly attributable to the Exchange Systems, as well as allocations deemed reasonable by management, to present the combined financial position, results of operations, changes in invested equity and cash flows of the Exchange Systems on a stand-alone basis and do not necessarily reflect the combined financial position, results of operations, changes in invested equity and cash flows of the Exchange Systems in the future or what they would have been had the Exchange Systems been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented.
 
/s/  Deloitte & Touche LLP
 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
September 28, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") is a Pennsylvania corporation, incorporated in December 2001. Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of broadband communications networks in the United States. Comcast's cable operations served approximately 21.4 million video subscribers as of December 31, 2005.
 
In April 2005, (i) Comcast and a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable, Inc. ("TWC") entered into agreements with Adelphia Communications Corporation ("Adelphia") to acquire assets comprising, in the aggregate, substantially all of the assets of Adelphia and (ii) Comcast and TWC and certain of their respective affiliates entered into agreements to (a) redeem Comcast's interests in TWC and its subsidiary, Time Warner Entertainment ("TWE") and (b) exchange certain cable systems (collectively, the "July transactions").
 
The July transactions were subject to customary regulatory review and approvals, including court approval in the Adelphia Chapter 11 bankruptcy case, which has now been obtained. In July 2006, the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") approved the proposed transactions which represented the last federal approval needed in order to close the proposed transactions. The July transactions closed on July 31, 2006.
 
The accompanying special purpose financial statements represent the combined financial position and results of operations for Los Angeles, Dallas and Cleveland cable systems owned by Comcast prior to the July transactions and exchanged with a subsidiary of TWC (the "Exchange Systems"). Within these financial statements "we," "us" and "our" refers to the Exchange Systems. The Exchange Systems served approximately 1.1 million video subscribers as of July 31, 2006.
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying special purpose combined carve-out financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The Exchange Systems are an integrated business of Comcast that operate in a single business segment and are not a stand-alone entity. The combined financial statements of the Exchange Systems reflect the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses directly attributable to the Exchange Systems, as well as allocations deemed reasonable by management, to present the combined financial position, results of operations, changes in invested equity and cash flows of the Exchange Systems on a stand-alone basis. The allocation methodologies have been described within the notes to the combined financial statements where appropriate, and management considers the allocations to be reasonable. The financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect the combined financial position, results of operations, changes in invested equity and cash flows of the Exchange Systems in the future or what they would have been had the Exchange Systems been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented.
 
Management's use of estimates
 
The combined financial statements of the Exchange Systems have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates are used when accounting for various items, such as allowances for doubtful accounts, investments, depreciation and amortization, asset impairment, non-monetary transactions, certain acquisition-related liabilities, pensions and other postretirement benefits, income taxes, and legal contingencies.
 
 
 
 
Fair Values
 
Estimated fair value amounts presented in these combined financial statements have been determined using available market information and appropriate methodologies. However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value. The estimates presented in these combined financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the amounts we could realize in a current market exchange. The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. The fair value estimates were based on pertinent information available to us as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. The fair value estimates have not been comprehensively updated for purposes of these combined financial statements since those dates.
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
All highly-liquid investments purchased with a remaining maturity of three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, cash equivalents consist of deposits in local depository accounts. The carrying amounts of our cash equivalents approximate their fair values at December 31, 2005 and 2004.
 
Property, plant and equipment
 
The Exchange Systems record property, plant and equipment at cost. Depreciation is generally recorded using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. The significant components of property and equipment are as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
 
Improvements that extend these lives of the related assets are capitalized and other repairs and maintenance charges are expensed as incurred. The cost and related accumulated depreciation applicable to assets sold or retired are removed from the accounts and, unless they are presented separately, the gain or loss on disposition is recognized as a component of depreciation expense.
 
The costs associated with the construction of cable transmission and distribution facilities and new cable service installations are also capitalized. Costs include all direct labor and materials, as well as various indirect costs.
 
Investment
 
As of December 31, 2005, the Exchange Systems hold a 20% investment in Adlink Cable Advertising, LLC ("Adlink"), an entity that operates the adsales interconnect in the Los Angeles area that serves our Los Angeles cable system. The investment in Adlink is accounted for under the equity method as we and our affiliates have the ability to exercise significant influence over its operating and financial policies. The investment in Adlink was
 
 
 
 
recorded at original cost and is adjusted to recognize our proportionate share of Adlink's net losses after the date of investment, amortization of basis differences, additional cash contributions made, dividends received and impairment charges resulting from adjustments to net realizable value. Summarized financial information for Adlink is provided in Note 4.
 
Asset Retirement Obligations
 
SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," as interpreted by FASB Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligationsan Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143," requires that a liability be recognized for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. Certain of our franchise agreements and leases contain provisions requiring us to restore facilities or remove equipment in the event that the franchise or lease agreement is not renewed. We expect to continually renew our franchise agreements and have concluded that the related franchise right is an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Accordingly, the possibility is remote that we would be required to incur significant restoration or removal costs in the foreseeable future. We would record an estimated liability in the unlikely event a franchise agreement containing such a provision were no longer expected to be renewed. The obligations related to the removal provisions contained in our lease agreements or any disposal obligations related to our operating assets are not estimatable or are not material to our combined financial condition or results of operations.
 
Intangible Assets
 
Cable franchise rights represent the value attributed to agreements with local authorities that allow access to homes in cable service areas acquired in connection with business combinations. We do not amortize cable franchise rights because we have determined that they have an indefinite life. We reassess this determination periodically for each franchise based on the factors included in SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets". Costs we incur in negotiating and renewing cable franchise agreements are included in other intangible assets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the franchise renewal period, generally 10 years.
 
Goodwill is the excess of the acquisition cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. The Exchange Systems were acquired by Comcast in 2002 in connection with Comcast's acquisition of AT&T Corporation's broadband business (the "Broadband Acquisition"). Goodwill was allocated to the Exchange Systems based on the relative fair value of these systems in relationship to the total fair value of the assets acquired in the Broadband Acquisition. We test our goodwill and intangible assets that are determined to have an indefinite life for impairment at least annually.
 
Other intangible assets consist principally of franchise related customer relationships acquired in business combinations subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," on July 1, 2001, cable franchise renewal costs, computer software, and other contractual operating rights. We record these costs as assets and amortize them on a straight-line basis over the term of the related agreements or estimated useful life, which generally range from 2 to 10 years.
 
Valuation of Long-Lived and Indefinite Lived Assets
 
In accordance with SFAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," we periodically evaluate the recoverability and estimated lives of our long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable or the useful life has changed. Such evaluations include
 
 
 
 
analyses based on the cash generated by the underlying assets, profitability information, including estimated future operating results, trends, funding by Comcast, or other determinants of fair value. If the total of the expected future undiscounted cash flows, is less than the carrying amount of the related assets, a loss is recognized for the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the asset.
 
We evaluate the recoverability of our goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually, during the second quarter of each year, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. We perform the impairment assessment of our goodwill at the cable operations level as components below this level are not separate reporting units and have similar economic characteristics that allow them to be aggregated into one reporting unit.
 
We estimate the fair value of our cable franchise rights primarily based on discounted cash flow analysis, multiples of operating income before depreciation and amortization generated by the underlying assets, analyses of current market transactions and profitability information, including estimated future operating results, trends, and other determinants of fair value.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
We recognize video, high-speed internet, and phone revenues as service is provided. We manage credit risk by screening applicants for potential risk through the use of credit bureau data. If a subscribers' account is delinquent, various measures are used to collect outstanding amounts, up to and including termination of the subscribers' cable service. We recognize advertising sales revenue at estimated realizable values when the advertising is aired. Installation revenues obtained from the connection of subscribers to our broadband cable systems are less than related direct selling costs. Therefore, such revenues are recognized as connections are completed. Revenues derived from other sources are recognized when services are provided or events occur. Under the terms of our franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay up to 5% of our gross revenues earned from providing cable services within the local franchising area. We normally pass these fees through to our cable subscribers. We classify fees collected from cable subscribers as a component of revenues pursuant to "Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for Expenses Incurred."
EITF 01-14,
Out-of-Pocket'
 
Programming Costs
 
Comcast secures programming content on behalf of the Exchange Systems. This programming is acquired for distribution to our subscribers, generally pursuant to multi-year license agreements, typically based on the number of subscribers that received the programming. From time to time these contracts expire and programming continues to be provided based on interim arrangements while the parties negotiate new contractual terms, sometimes with effective dates that affect prior periods. While payments are typically made under the prior contract terms, the amount of our programming costs recorded during these interim arrangements is based on our estimates of the ultimate contractual terms expected to be negotiated.
 
We have received or may receive incentives from programming networks for carriage of their programming. We reflect the deferred portion of these fees within non-current liabilities and amortize the fees as a reduction of programming costs (which are included in operating expenses) over the term of the programming contract.
 
Programming costs and amortization of the associated launch incentives have been allocated to the Exchange Systems on the basis of actual subscribers, and channel carriage, for each period presented.
 
 
 
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB No. 25"), and related interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," as amended ("SFAS No. 123"). Compensation expense for stock options is measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of Comcast's stock at the date of the grant over the amount an optionee must pay to acquire the stock. We record compensation expense for restricted stock awards based on the quoted market price of Comcast's stock at the date of the grant and the vesting period.
 
The following table illustrates the effect on net income (loss) if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to stock-based compensation. Total stock-based compensation expense was determined under the fair value method for all awards using the accelerated recognition method as permitted under SFAS No. 123:
 
 
The weighted average fair value at date of grant of a Comcast Class A common stock option granted under the Comcast option plans during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $13.16, $11.40 and $9.47, respectively. The fair value of each option granted during 2005, 2004 and 2003 was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:
 
 
Postretirement and Post Employment Benefits
 
We charge to operations the estimated costs of retiree benefits and benefits for former or inactive employees, after employment but before retirement, during the years the employees provide services. Eligible employees participate in benefit plans provided by Comcast, which include two former AT&T Broadband ("Broadband") defined benefit pension plans and a health care stipend plan. Costs associated with these plans are allocated to us based on the costs associated with our participating employees as a percentage of the total costs for all plan participants. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, these allocated costs were approximately $1.9 million, $1.8 million and $2.2 million and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in our combined statements of operations.
 
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
Our results of operations have historically been included in the consolidated federal income tax returns of Comcast and the state income tax returns of California, Texas and Ohio. The income tax amounts reflected in the accompanying special purpose combined carve-out financial statements have been allocated based on taxable income directly attributable to the Exchange Systems, resulting in a stand-alone presentation. We believe the assumptions underlying the allocation of income taxes are reasonable. However, the amounts allocated for income taxes in the accompanying special purpose combined carve-out financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the amount of income taxes that would have been recorded had the combined systems been operated as a separate, stand-alone entity.
 
Income taxes have been provided for using the liability method in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, ("Statement No. 109"). Statement No. 109 requires an asset and liability based approach in accounting for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities and the expected benefits of utilizing net operating loss carryforwards. The impact on deferred taxes of changes in tax rates and laws, if any, applied to the years during which temporary differences are expected to be settled, are reflected in the combined financial statements in the period of enactment (see Note 7).
Accounting for Income Taxes
 
 
SFAS No. 123R
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, which replaces SFAS No. 123 and supersedes APB No. 25. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ("SAB 107") regarding the SEC's interpretation of SFAS No. 123R and the valuation of share-based payments for public companies. SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values at grant date or later modification. In addition, SFAS No. 123R will cause unrecognized cost (based on the amounts in our pro forma footnote disclosure) related to options vesting after the date of initial adoption to be recognized as a charge to results of operations over the remaining requisite service period.
 
We adopted SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2006, using the Modified Prospective Approach ("MPA"), accordingly, prior periods have not been adjusted. The MPA requires that compensation expense be recorded for restricted stock and all unvested stock options as of January 1, 2006. We expect to continue using the Black-Scholes valuation model in determining the fair value of share-based payments to employees. For pro-forma disclosure purposes, we recognized the majority of our share-based compensation costs using the accelerated recognition method as permitted by SFAS No. 123. Upon adoption we will continue to recognize the cost of previously granted share-based awards under the accelerated recognition method and we will recognize the cost for new share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
 
The adoption of SFAS No. 123R will result in an increase in 2006 compensation expense for the Exchange Systems of approximately $4.2 million, including the estimated impact of 2006 share-based awards.
 
SFAS No. 153
 
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, "Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assetsan amendment of APB Opinion No. 29" ("SFAS No. 153"). The guidance in APB Opinion No. 29, "Accounting for Nonmonetary
 
 
 
 
Transactions" ("APB No. 29"), is based on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. The guidance in APB No. 29, however, included certain exceptions to that principle. SFAS No. 153 amends APB No. 29 to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 is effective for such exchange transactions occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005.
 
SFAS No. 154
 
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, "Accounting Changes and Error Correctionsa Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3" ("SFAS No. 154"). SFAS No. 154 replaces APB Opinion No. 20, "Accounting Changes," and FASB Statement No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements," and changes the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. SFAS No. 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principles. It also applies to changes required by an accounting pronouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement does not include specific transition provisions. When a pronouncement includes specific transition provisions, those provisions should be followed. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and error corrections occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005.
 
FSP 115-1
 
In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position and "The Meaning of Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments" which provides guidance on determining when investments in certain debt and equity securities are considered impaired, whether that impairment is and on measuring such impairment loss. also includes accounting considerations subsequent to the recognition of an other-than temporary impairment and requires certain disclosures about unrealized losses that have not been recognized as impairments. is required to be applied to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of will not have a material impact on our combined financial condition or results of operations.
FAS 115-1
FAS 124-1,
Other-Than-Temporary
("FSP 115-1"),
other-than-temporary,
FSP 115-1
other-than-temporary
FSP 115-1
FSP 115-1
 
 
As of December 31, 2005, we have a 20% investment in Adlink, an entity that operates the adsales interconnect in the Los Angeles area and that serves our Los Angeles cable system. As described in Note 2, the Adlink investment is accounted for under the equity method as a result of our proportionate ownership interest and our ability to exercise significant influence over its operating and financial policies. Summarized financial information for Adlink is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The carrying amount of our investment in Adlink exceeded our proportionate interests in the book value of the investees' net assets by $4.4 million and $9.4 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. This difference relates to contract-based intangible assets and is included in investments in the accompanying combined balance sheets and is being amortized to equity in net loss of affiliates over the term of the underlying contract which expires in 2008.
 
 
The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of our intangible assets subject to amortization are as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
 
Estimated amortization expense for each of the next five years is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
Certain employees are eligible to contribute a portion of their compensation through payroll deductions, in accordance with specified guidelines, to various retirement-investment plans sponsored by Comcast. Comcast matches a percentage of the eligible employees' contributions up to certain limits. Expenses recorded in operating and selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying combined statements of operations, related to these plans, amounted to $5.3 million, $5.2 million and $4.4 million for the years' ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Taxable income and/or loss generated by the Exchange Systems has been included in the consolidated federal income tax returns of Comcast and certain of its state income tax returns. Comcast has allocated income taxes to the Exchange Systems in the accompanying combined financial statements as if the Exchange Systems were held in a separate corporation which filed separate income tax returns. Comcast believes the assumptions underlying its allocation of income taxes on a separate return basis are reasonable. However, the amounts allocated for income taxes in the accompanying combined financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the actual amount of income taxes that would have been recorded had the Exchange Systems been held within a separate stand-alone entity.
 
Income tax (expense) benefit consists of the following components (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The effective income tax (expense) benefit differs from the U.S. federal statutory amount of 35% because of the effect of the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
The net deferred tax liability consists of the following components:
 
 
Gross deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2005, include $150.4 million of federal and $16.9 million of state net operating loss carryforwards, determined on a separate return basis, which would expire in periods through 2025. A valuation allowance has been recorded on the state carryforwards because the realizability of such tax benefits on a separate return basis is not more likely than not. The federal net operating loss carryforwards have been fully utilized in the consolidated federal income tax returns of Comcast. In addition, any unused state net operating losses will remain with Comcast subsequent to the exchange.
 
8.  Commitments & Contingencies
 
Commitments
 
The following table summarizes our minimum annual commitments under our rental commitments for office space, equipment and other non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
Rental expenses charged to operations were $9.7 million, $11.1 million and $11.6 million for the years ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and are reflected in operating and selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying combined statements of operations.
 
 
 
8.  Commitments & Contingencies (Continued)
 
Contingencies
 
At Home Cases
 
Under the terms of the Broadband acquisition, Comcast Corporation is contractually liable for 50% of any liabilities of AT&T relating to certain At Home litigation. AT&T will be liable for the other 50%. Such litigation includes, but is not limited to, two actions brought by At Home's bondholders' liquidating trust against AT&T (and not naming Comcast Corporation): (i) a lawsuit filed against AT&T and certain of its senior officers in Santa Clara, California state court alleging various breaches of fiduciary duties, misappropriation of trade secrets and other causes of action and (ii) an action filed against AT&T in the District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that AT&T infringed an At Home patent by using its broadband distribution and high-speed internet backbone networks and equipment.
 
In May 2005, At Home bondholders' liquidating trust and AT&T agreed to settle these two actions. Pursuant to the settlement, AT&T agreed to pay $340 million to the bondholders' liquidating trust. The settlement was approved by the Bankruptcy Court, and these two actions were dismissed. As a result of the settlement by AT&T, Comcast Corporation recorded a $170 million charge to other income (expense), reflecting Comcast's portion of the settlement amount to AT&T in its 2005 financial results. Other expense for 2005 includes a $20.3 million charge associated with the allocation of the At Home settlement.
 
Other
 
We are subject to other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business. The final disposition of these claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our combined financial condition, but could possibly be material to our combined results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to our combined financial position.
 
 
The following table summarizes our cash payments for interest and income taxes, and supplemental disclosures of non-cash investing and financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Exchange Systems are a party to certain demand promissory notes payable to affiliates of Comcast. Interest recorded on these notes totaled $5.4 million, $3.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for each of the three years in the period ending December 31, 2005. The principal amount of the notes, and the related interest accrued thereon have been reflected in Notes Payable to Affiliates in the accompanying combined balance sheets.
 
 
Overview
 
Comcast and its subsidiaries provide certain management and administrative services to each of its cable systems, including the Exchange Systems. The costs of such services are reflected in appropriate categories in the accompanying combined statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Additionally, Comcast performs cash management functions on behalf of the Exchange Systems. Substantially all of the Exchange Systems' cash balances are swept to Comcast on a daily basis, where they are managed and invested by Comcast. As a result, all of our charges and cost allocations covered by these centralized cash management functions were deemed to have been paid by us to Comcast, in cash, during the period in which the cost was recorded in the combined financial statements. In addition, all of our cash receipts were advanced to Comcast as they were received. The excess of cash receipts advanced over the charges and cash allocation is reflected as net cash distributions to Comcast in the combined statements of invested equity and cash flows.
 
We consider all of our transactions with Comcast to be financing transactions, which are presented as net cash distributions to Comcast in the accompanying combined statements of cash flows.
 
Management Fees Charged by Comcast
 
Comcast has entered into management agreements with its cable subsidiaries, including the Exchange Systems. Under the terms of these management agreements, Comcast provides each local cable system access to the benefits of national and regional level products, contracts and services, in such critical areas as programming and other content acquisition and development, materials and services purchasing, network engineering, subscriber billing, marketing, customer service, and employee benefits. Comcast also provides certain other management and oversight functions, and coordinates certain services, on behalf of the cable operations. As compensation for the foregoing, Comcast receives a management fee based on a percentage of gross revenues.
 
In addition, Comcast Cable allocates headquarters, division and regional expenses attributable to the support of the cable system operations. These expenses are allocated to the cable system operations on the basis of the number of basic subscribers supported by such management functions.
 
 
 
11.  Related Party Transactions (Continued)
 
Net Contributions From (Distributions to) Comcast
 
The significant components of the net cash contributions from (distributions to) Comcast for the years' ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, were as follows:
 
 
Contributions from (distributions to) Comcast are generally recorded based on actual costs incurred, without a markup. The basis of allocation to the Exchange Systems, for the items described above, is as follows:
 
As indicated above, Comcast utilizes a centralized cash management system under which all cash receipts are swept to, and managed and invested by, Comcast on a daily basis. To the extent customer payments are received by Comcast's third-party lockbox processors, or to the extent other cash receipts are received by Comcast, related to the Exchange Systems, such amounts are applied to the corresponding customer accounts receivable or miscellaneous receivable balances and are reflected net in net cash contributions from (distributions to) Comcast in the accompanying combined statements of invested equity.
Customer payments and other cash receipts
 
Comcast centrally administers and incurs the costs associated with certain functions on a centralized basis, including programming contract administration and programming payments, payroll and related tax and benefits processing, and management of the costs of the high-speed data and telephone networks, and allocates the associated costs to the Exchange Systems. The costs incurred have been allocated to the Exchange Systems based on the actual amounts processed on behalf of the systems.
Expense allocations
 
All cash disbursements for trade and other accounts payable, and accrued expenses, are funded centrally by a subsidiary of Comcast. Transactions processed for trade and other accounts payable, and accrued expenses, associated with the operations of the Exchange Systems are reflected net in net cash contributions from (distributions to) Comcast in the accompanying combined statements of invested equity.
Accounts payable and other payments
 
Certain assets are purchased centrally and warehoused by Comcast, and are shipped to the operating cable systems on an as-needed basis. Additionally, in the normal course of business, inventory items or customer premise equipment may be transferred between cable systems based on customer demands, rebuild requirements, and other factors. The operating cable systems, including the Exchange Systems, are charged for these assets based on historical cost value paid by the acquiring system.
Fixed asset and inventory transfers
 
Programming Costs & Incentives
 
We purchase programming content, and receive launch incentives, from certain of Comcast's content subsidiaries, and from certain parties in which Comcast has a direct financial interest or other indirect relationship. The amounts recorded for launch incentives, programming expenses and launch amortization as of December 31
 
 
 
11.  Related Party Transactions (Continued)
 
2005 and 2004, and for the three years in the period ending December 31, 2005, for content purchased from related parties, are as follows:
 
 
Deferred launch incentives are reflected in other current and noncurrent liabilities in the accompanying combined balance sheets.
 
 
Programming expenses and launch amortization are reflected in operating expenses in the accompanying combined statements of operations.

 
Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") is a Pennsylvania corporation, incorporated in December 2001. Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of broadband communications networks in the United States. Comcast's cable operations served approximately 21.7 million video subscribers as of June 30, 2006.
 
In April 2005, (i) Comcast and a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable, Inc. ("TWC") entered into agreements with Adelphia Communications Corporation ("Adelphia") to acquire assets comprising, in the aggregate, substantially all of the assets of Adelphia and (ii) Comcast and TWC and certain of their respective affiliates entered into agreements to (a) redeem Comcast's interests in TWC and its subsidiary, Time Warner Entertainment ("TWE") and (b) exchange certain cable systems (collectively, the "July transactions").
 
The July transactions were subject to customary regulatory review and approvals, including court approval in the Adelphia Chapter 11 bankruptcy case, which has now been obtained. In July 2006, the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") approved the proposed transactions which represented the last federal approval needed in order to close the proposed transactions. The July transactions closed on July 31, 2006.
 
The accompanying special purpose combined financial statements represent the financial position and results of operations for Los Angeles, Dallas and Cleveland cable systems owned by Comcast prior to the July transactions and exchanged with a subsidiary of TWC (the "Exchange Systems"). Within these financial statements "we," "us" and "our" refers to the Exchange Systems. The Exchange Systems served approximately 1.1 million video subscribers as of July 31, 2006.
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
We have prepared these unaudited special purpose combined carve-out financial statements based upon Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules that permit reduced disclosure for interim periods.
 
The accompanying special purpose combined carve-out financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and include all adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of the Exchange Systems combined financial condition and results of operations for the interim periods shown, including normal recurring accruals and other items. The combined results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
 
The Exchange Systems are an integrated business of Comcast that operate in a single business segment and are not a stand-alone entity. The combined financial statements of the Exchange Systems reflect the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Exchange Systems, as well as allocations deemed reasonable by management, to present the combined financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Exchange Systems on a stand-alone basis. The allocation methodologies have been described within the notes to the combined financial statements, where appropriate, and management considers the allocations to be reasonable. The financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect the combined financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Exchange Systems in the future or what they would have been had the Exchange Systems been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented.
 
Income Taxes
 
The income tax benefit for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, is primarily attributable to the favorable impact of a change in state tax law in Texas.
 
 
 
 
 
SFAS No. 123R
 
Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123R, "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123R") using the Modified Prospective Approach. See Note 6 for further detail regarding the adoption of this standard.
 
SFAS No. 155
 
In February 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instrumentsan Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140" ("SFAS No. 155"). SFAS No. 155 allows financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative and that otherwise would require bifurcation to be accounted for as a whole on a fair value basis, at the holders' election. SFAS No. 155 also clarifies and amends certain other provisions of SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140. This statement is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued in fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. We do not expect that the adoption of SFAS No. 155 will have a material impact on our combined financial condition or results of operations.
 
FASB Interpretation No. 48
 
In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the recognition threshold and measurement of a tax position taken on a tax return. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. FIN 48 also requires expanded disclosure with respect to the uncertainty in income taxes. We are currently evaluating the requirements of FIN 48 and the impact this interpretation may have on our combined financial statements
 
SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108
 
In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements." SAB 108 provides interpretive guidance on how the effects of the carryover or reversal of prior year misstatements should be considered in quantifying a potential current year financial statement misstatement. Specifically, the SAB articulates the SEC's position that registrants should quantify the effects of prior period errors using both a balance sheet approach ("iron curtain method") and an income statement approach ("rollover method") and evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that, when all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are considered, is material. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. We are evaluating the requirements of SAB 108, however, we do not expect the adoption of SAB 108 to have a material impact on our combined financial condition or results of operations.
 
 
As of June 30, 2006, we have a 20% investment in Adlink, an entity that operates the adsales interconnect in the Los Angeles area and that serves our Los Angeles cable system. The Adlink investment is accounted for under the
 
 
 
 
 
equity method as a result of our proportionate ownership interest and our ability to exercise significant influence over its operating and financial policies. Summarized financial information for Adlink is as follows:
 
 
 
The carrying amount of our investment in Adlink exceeded our proportionate interests in the book value of the investees' net assets by $2.1 million and $4.4 million as of June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. This difference relates to contract-based intangible assets and is being amortized to equity in net loss of affiliates over the term of the underlying contract which expires in 2008.
 
 
Comcast evaluates the recoverability of its goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, including cable franchise rights, annually during the second quarter of each year or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. Comcast estimates the fair value of its goodwill and cable franchise rights primarily based on discounted cash flow analyses, multiples of income before depreciation and amortization generated by the underlying assets, analyses of current market transactions, and profitability information, including estimated future operating results, trends or other determinants of fair value.
 
In connection with Comcast Corporation's annual evaluation of its goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, it was determined that the carrying value of the cable franchise rights exceeded their fair value for the Exchange Systems by approximately $9 million. The excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the cable franchise rights is reflected as an impairment loss in the accompanying combined statements of operations.
 
 
Effective January 1, 2006 we adopted SFAS No. 123R using the Modified Prospective Approach, accordingly, we have not adjusted 2005 or prior years upon the adoption. SFAS No. 123R revises SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123") and supersedes Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB No. 25"). SFAS No. 123R requires the cost of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial
 
 
 
 
 
statements based on their fair values at grant date, or the date of later modification, over the requisite service period. In addition, SFAS No. 123R requires unrecognized cost (based on the amounts previously disclosed in our pro forma footnote disclosure) related to options vesting after the date of initial adoption to be recognized in the financial statements over the remaining requisite service period.
 
Under the Modified Prospective Approach, the amount of compensation cost recognized includes: (i) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123 and (ii) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, we recognized the majority of our share-based compensation costs using the accelerated recognition method. Upon adoption, we recognize the cost of previously granted share-based awards under the accelerated recognition method and recognize the cost of new share-based awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The incremental pre-tax share-based compensation expense recognized due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006 was $0.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Total share-based compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123R, including the incremental pre-tax share-based compensation expense above, was $1.0 million, with an associated tax benefit of $0.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2006, and $2.0 million, with an associated tax benefit of $0.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively. The amount of share-based compensation capitalized was not material to our combined financial statements.
 
SFAS No. 123R also required us to change the classification, in our combined statements of cash flows, of any tax benefits realized upon the exercise of stock options or issuance of restricted share unit awards in excess of that which is associated with the expense recognized for financial reporting purposes.
 
Prior to January 1, 2006 we accounted for our share-based compensation plans in accordance with the provisions of APB No. 25, as permitted by SFAS No. 123, and accordingly did not recognize compensation expense for stock options with an exercise price equal to or greater than the market price of the underlying Comcast Corporation stock at the date of grant. Had the fair value-based method as prescribed by SFAS No. 123 been applied, additional pre-tax compensation expense of $1.0 million and $1.9 million would have been recognized for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005, respectively, and the effect on net income would have been as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comcast Corporation Option Plans
 
Comcast Corporation maintains stock option plans for certain employees under which fixed price stock options may be granted and the option price is generally not less than the fair value of a share of the underlying Comcast Corporation Class A or Class A Special common stock at the date of grant (collectively, the "Comcast Option Plans"). Options granted under the Comcast Option Plans generally have a term of 10 years and become exercisable between two and nine and one half years from the date of grant.
 
The fair value of each stock option is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model that uses the assumptions noted in the following table. Expected volatility is based on a blend of implied and historical volatility of Comcast Corporation Class A common stock. Comcast Corporation uses historical data on exercises of stock options and other factors to estimate the expected term of the options granted. The risk free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the date of grant.
 
 
The weighted average fair value at date of grant of a Comcast Corporation Class A common stock option granted under the Comcast Option Plans during the six month period ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, was $10.62 and $13.30, respectively.
 
As of June 30, 2006, there was $5.1 million of total unrecognized, pre-tax compensation cost related to non-vested stock options. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately two years.
 
Comcast Corporation Restricted Stock Plan
 
Comcast Corporation maintains a restricted stock plan under which certain employees and directors ("Participant") may be granted restricted share unit awards in Comcast Corporation Class A or Class A Special common stock. Awards of restricted share units are valued by reference to shares of common stock that entitle a Participant to receive, upon the settlement of the unit, one share of common stock for each unit. The awards vest annually, generally over a period not to exceed five years from the date of the award, and do not have voting rights.
 
The following table summarizes the weighted-average fair value at date of grant and the compensation expense recognized related to restricted share unit awards:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The total fair value of restricted share units vested during the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006 was $4 thousand and $467 thousand, respectively.
 
As of June 30, 2006, there was $4.0 million of total unrecognized pre-tax compensation cost related to non-vested restricted share unit awards. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately two and one half years.
 
 
 
As of June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the Exchange Systems are a party to certain demand promissory notes payable to affiliates of Comcast. Interest recorded on these notes totaled $3.6 million and $2.4 million, respectively, for the six months ending June 30, 2006 and 2005. The principal amount of the notes, and the related interest accrued thereon have been reflected in Notes Payable to Affiliates in the accompanying combined balance sheets.
 
 
Contingencies
 
At Home Cases
 
Under the terms of the AT&T Broadband acquisition, Comcast Corporation is contractually liable for 50% of any liabilities of AT&T relating to certain At Home litigation. AT&T will be liable for the other 50%. Such litigation includes, but is not limited to, two actions brought by At Home's bondholders' liquidating trust against AT&T (and not naming Comcast Corporation): (i) a lawsuit filed against AT&T and certain of its senior officers in Santa Clara, California state court alleging various breaches of fiduciary duties, misappropriation of trade secrets and other causes of action and (ii) an action filed against AT&T in the District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that AT&T infringed an At Home patent by using its broadband distribution and high-speed internet backbone networks and equipment.
 
In May 2005, At Home bondholders' liquidating trust and AT&T agreed to settle these two actions. Pursuant to the settlement, AT&T agreed to pay $340 million to the bondholders' liquidating trust. The settlement was approved by the Bankruptcy Court, and these two actions were dismissed. As a result of the settlement by AT&T, Comcast Corporation recorded a $170 million charge to other income (expense), reflecting Comcast's portion of the settlement amount to AT&T in its financial results for the six months ended June 30, 2005. Other expense for the six months ended June 30, 2005, includes a $20.3 million charge associated with the allocation of the At Home settlement.
 
 
 
 
 
Other
 
We are subject to other legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business. The final disposition of these claims is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our combined financial position, but could possibly be material to our combined results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that any adverse outcome would not be material to our combined financial position.
 
 
Overview
 
Comcast and its subsidiaries provide certain management and administrative services to each of its cable systems, including the Exchange Systems. The costs of such services are reflected in appropriate categories in the accompanying combined statements of operations for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005. Additionally, Comcast performs cash management functions on behalf of the Exchange Systems. Substantially all of the Exchange Systems' cash balances are swept to Comcast on a daily basis, where they are managed and invested by Comcast. As a result, all of our charges and cost allocations covered by these centralized cash management functions were deemed to have been paid by us to Comcast, in cash, during the period in which the cost was recorded in the combined financial statements. In addition, all of our cash receipts were advanced to Comcast as they were received. The excess of cash receipts advanced over the charges and cash allocations are reflected as net cash distributions to Comcast in the accompanying combined statements of cash flows.
 
We consider all of our transactions with Comcast to be financing transactions, which are presented as net cash distributions to Comcast in the accompanying combined statements of cash flows.
 
Net Contributions from (Distributions to) Comcast
 
The significant components of the net cash contributions from (distributions to) Comcast for the three months and six months ending June 30, 2006 and 2005, were as follows:
 
 
Contributions from (distributions to) Comcast are generally recorded based on actual costs incurred, without a markup. The basis of allocation to the Exchange Systems, for the items described above, is as follows:
 
As indicated above, Comcast utilizes a centralized cash management system under which all cash receipts are swept to, and managed and invested by, Comcast on a daily basis. To the extent customer payments are received by Comcast's third-party lockbox processors, or to the extent other cash receipts are received by Comcast, related to the Exchange Systems, such amounts are applied to
Customer payments and other cash receipts
 
 
 
 
 
the corresponding customer accounts receivable or miscellaneous receivable balances and are reflected net as a component of invested equity in net cash distributions to Comcast.
 
Comcast centrally administers and incurs the costs associated with certain functions on a centralized basis, including programming contract administration and programming payments, payroll and related tax and benefits processing, and management of the costs of the high-speed data and telephone networks, and allocates the associated costs to the Exchange Systems. The costs incurred have been allocated to the Exchange Systems based the actual amounts processed on behalf of the systems.
Expense allocations
 
All cash disbursements for trade and other accounts payable, and accrued expenses, are funded centrally by a subsidiary of Comcast. Transactions processed for trade and other accounts payable, and accrued expenses, associated with the operations of the Exchange Systems are reflected net as a component of invested equity in net cash distributions to Comcast in the accompanying combined statements of cash flows.
Accounts payable and other payments
 
Certain assets are purchased centrally and warehoused by Comcast, and are shipped to the operating cable systems on an as-needed basis. Additionally, in the normal course of business, inventory items or customer premise equipment may be transferred between cable systems based on customer demands, rebuild requirements, and other factors. The operating cable systems, including the Exchange Systems, are charged for these assets based on historical cost value paid by the acquiring system.
Fixed asset and inventory transfers
 
Programming Costs & Incentives
 
We purchase programming content, and receive launch incentives, from certain of Comcast Corporation's content subsidiaries, and from certain parties in which Comcast Corporation has a direct financial interest or other indirect relationship. The amounts recorded for programming expenses, launch incentives and launch amortization as of June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and for the three months and six months ending June 30, 2006 and 2005, for content purchased from related parties, are as follows:
 
 
Deferred launch incentives are reflected in other current and noncurrent liabilities in the accompanying combined balance sheets.
 
 
Programming expenses and launch amortization are reflected in operating expenses in the accompanying combined statements of operations.


