FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20071219163310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
_______________
 
FORM
 
8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 14, 2007
 
TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
DELAWARE
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
_______________
 
One Time Warner Center, North Tower, New York, New York 10019
 
(Address of principal executive
offices)
          
(Zip
Code)
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (212) 364-8200 
 
NOT APPLICABLE
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last
report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Chief Accounting Officer
 
On December 14, 2007, the Board of Directors of Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company), elected William F. Osbourn Jr., age 43, to the position of Senior Vice President and Controller, effective upon the previously announced retirement at the end of January 2008 of Richard Petty, currently Senior Vice President and Controller of the Company. In this position, Mr. Osbourn will serve as the Companys Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Osbourn has served as Vice President of Technical Accounting since joining the Company in 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Osbourn served for two years as Executive Director of External Financial Reporting and Accounting Policy at Time Warner Inc. Mr. Osbourn was a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers prior to joining Time Warner Inc. Time Warner Inc. currently owns approximately 84.0% of the common stock of the Company (representing a 90.6% voting interest) and consolidates the Companys financial results.
 
For 2008, Mr. Osbourn will receive: (a) a minimum annual salary of $330,000 and (b) a target annual discretionary cash bonus amount of $165,000. Mr. Osbourn will also be eligible to participate in the Companys long-term incentive compensation program.
 
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Osbourns election to the position of Senior Vice President and Controller is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Supplemental Information about Appointment of the Companys Chief Financial Officer
 
On November 9, 2007, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Current Report on Form 8-K reporting the appointment of Robert D. Marcus to the position of Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective January 1, 2008. On December 14, 2007, in connection with the Companys periodic compensation review and in light of Mr. Marcus increased responsibilities in his new role as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Compensation Committee) approved changes to Mr. Marcus compensation effective as of January 1, 2008. For 2008, Mr. Marcus will receive: (a) an annual salary of $800,000; (b) target annual discretionary cash bonus amount of $1,400,000 and (c) target annual long-term incentive compensation value of $1,800,000, which is expected to take the form of stock options and restricted stock units.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
TIME WARNER CABLE PROMOTES WILLIAM F. OSBOURN JR. TO SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER
 
New York, NY, December 18, 2007
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today announced the promotion of William F. Osbourn Jr. to Senior Vice President and Controller. Osbourn had been Vice President of Technical Accounting since joining Time Warner Cable in 2003. In his new role, Mr. Osbourn will oversee the company's Accounting function including operations accounting, external financial reporting, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, development and implementation of accounting policies and procedures, and shared services.
He will report to Artie Minson, Executive Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer, and will continue to be based in Charlotte, North Carolina.
 
Bill has done a tremendous job over the last few years overseeing our technical accounting area, developing our external financial reporting function and leading our Sarbanes-Oxley compliance program, said Minson. His extensive leadership skills and knowledge of our accounting operation make him the perfect choice to take on this critical assignment.
 
Before joining Time Warner Cable, Osbourn served for two years as Executive Director for External Financial Reporting and Accounting Policy at Time Warner Inc. In this position, he oversaw Time Warners external financial reporting function and the implementation of new accounting guidance. Previously, he spent fourteen years at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in roles of increasing responsibility; he was admitted to Partnership in 2000.
 
Osbourn graduated with honors from Washington University in 1987 with a Bachelor of Business Administration. He is a Certified Public Accountant. Osbourn resides in Waxhaw, North Carolina, with his wife and three children.
 
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable (NYSE: TWC) owns and manages cable systems passing approximately 26 million homes in 33 states.  Headquartered in New York City, Time Warner Cable has 14.6 million customers for its various products, including video, high-speed data and residential telephone.  This includes approximately 13.3 million basic video subscribers and more than 6.9 million customers who purchase more than one product. Time Warner Cable includes some of the most technologically advanced and best-clustered cable systems in the country, with nearly 85 percent of the Companys customers located in five geographic regions: New York, Texas, Ohio, the Carolinas and southern California.  It is the largest cable provider in the nations two largest cities, Los Angeles and New York.  Leveraging its leadership in innovation and quality customer care, Time Warner Cable delivers advanced products and services such as video-on-demand, high-definition television, digital video recorders, high-speed data and Digital Phone. 
 
 
###
 
Contact:
Maureen Huff
(212) 364-8206
 
 
 
 
 


