FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20080430071830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
          On April 30, 2008, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 30, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Net Addition of 896,000 Revenue Generating Units, Driven by Strong Growth across All RGU Categories  Basic Video (up 55,000), Digital Video (up 261,000), Residential HSD (up 304,000) and Residential Digital Phone (up 280,000)
Net Customer Relationships Grew 96,000; Record Triple Play Quarter with 247,000 Net Additions
Revenues Rose 8%, OIBDA Grew 7%, and Operating Income Increased 10% over Prior Year Quarter
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
NEW YORK, NY, April 30, 2008
Time Warner Cable President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "Time Warner Cable delivered another strong quarter of financial and operational results. We achieved what we set out to do, and our accomplishments demonstrate that we're competing aggressively across all areas of our business, while continuing to invest for sustained growth."
"We generated very robust customer growth in the quarter, including net additions of nearly 100,000 customer relationships and 900,000 revenue generating units. We also added a record number of triple play customers, helping drive bundled penetration of customers who subscribe to two or more of our primary services to 50% of customer relationships," Britt added. "We continue to sharpen our marketing message and increase our advertising to distinguish Time Warner Cable even more clearly from its competitors, and we're very encouraged by the consumer response."
for the first three months of 2008 grew 8% ($309 million) over the first quarter of 2007 to $4.2 billion. Subscription revenues were up 8% ($301 million) to $4.0 billion. Video revenues climbed 4% ($99 million) to $2.6 billion, driven by continued growth in digital video services and video price increases. High-speed data revenues rose 11% ($100 million) to $1.0 billion, fueled mainly by continued year-over-year residential high-speed data subscriber growth. Voice revenues increased 39% ($102 million) to $366 million, reflecting strong Digital Phone subscriber growth. Advertising revenues grew 4% ($8 million) to $197 million.
FIRST-QUARTER RESULTS Revenues
rose 7% ($95 million) over the first quarter of 2007 to $1.4 billion, benefiting from revenue growth, offset partially by higher employee, video programming and marketing costs. Employee costs grew, due primarily to greater headcount, salary increases and higher equity-based compensation expense, reflecting mainly the timing of 2008 grants, which were made during the first quarter as compared to 2007 grants, which were made in the second quarter. Video programming expenses increased 6% ($49 million) to $929 million, due mainly to higher contractual rates and
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("OIBDA")
 
the expansion of service offerings, offset partially by lower basic video subscribers compared to the first quarter of 2007. Marketing costs rose 28% ($35 million) to $158 million, as a result of intensified marketing efforts during the first quarter of 2008. Additionally, the first quarter of 2007 included $10 million of merger-related and restructuring expenses.
grew 10% ($57 million) over the first quarter of 2007 to $636 million, due to the increase in OIBDA and lower amortization expense ($14 million), offset in part by higher depreciation expense ($52 million). Amortization expense declined, reflecting the absence of amortization expense associated with customer relationships recorded in connection with the 2003 restructuring of Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a subsidiary of TWC, which were fully amortized at the end of the first quarter of 2007. The increase in depreciation expense was associated primarily with purchases of customer premise equipment, scalable infrastructure and line extensions (each of which is driven largely by customer demand) occurring during or subsequent to the first quarter of 2007.
Operating Income
For the first quarter of 2008, net income was $242 million, or $0.25 per basic and diluted common share, compared to net income of $276 million, or $0.28 per basic and diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2007.
Income and Per Share Results
Affecting comparability was a gain recorded in the first quarter of 2007 resulting from the distribution of the Texas and Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P. ("TKCCP") assets, which was treated as a sale of the Company's 50% equity interest in the Houston area systems of TKCCP and increased the prior year quarter's net income by approximately $81 million, or $0.08 per basic and diluted common share. In addition, the Company recorded a gain in the first quarter of 2008 from the sale of a cost-method investment, which had the effect of increasing net income in the first quarter of 2008 by $5 million, or $0.01 per basic and diluted common share. Excluding these items, net income increased for the first quarter of 2008 as compared to the first quarter of 2007, due primarily to an increase in Operating Income, as well as lower interest expense and lower income tax provision.
for the first three months of 2008 was $1.2 billion.
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
for the first three months of 2008 totaled $846 million, an increase of $126 million compared to the first three months of 2007. Driving the growth in capital expenditures was higher customer premise equipment spending reflecting greater penetration of advanced services.
Capital Expenditures from Continuing Operations
for the first three months of 2008 totaled $339 million. Net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred membership units, as of March 31, 2008, were $13.3 billion.
Free Cash Flow
 
For definitions of certain terms, please refer to Table 2 below, which presents selected subscriber and penetration data.
SUBSCRIBER UPDATE
Highlights
reached 33.0 million, reflecting a robust 896,000 net additions during the first quarter. Driving this increase was strong growth across all RGU categories  including the best quarterly basic video net additions (55,000) since the first quarter of 2006. totaled 14.7 million, with 96,000 net additions. surpassed 2.6 million (or 18% of total customer relationships), benefiting from a record 247,000 net additions.
RGUs
Customer relationships
Triple Play subscribers
 
 
OIBDA is a financial measure not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The Company defines OIBDA as Operating Income before depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets. Management utilizes OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because OIBDA eliminates the uneven effect across its business of considerable amounts of depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations. Additionally, management utilizes OIBDA because it believes this measure provides valuable insight into the underlying performance of the Company's individual cable systems by removing the effects of items that are not within the control of local personnel charged with managing these systems such as income tax provision, other income (expense), net, minority interest expense, net, income from equity investments, net, and interest expense, net. In this regard, OIBDA is a significant measure used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. OIBDA also is a metric used by the Company's parent, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"), to evaluate the Company's performance and is an important measure in the Time Warner reportable segment disclosures. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's business. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates the investments in such tangible and intangible assets through other financial measures, such as capital expenditure budget variances, investment spending levels and return on capital analyses. Another limitation of this measure is that it does not reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes, debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA related to the minority ownership, the results of the Company's equity investments or other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for this limitation through other financial measures such as a review of net income and earnings per share.
Use of OIBDA and Free Cash Flow
Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities (as defined under GAAP) plus excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less cash provided by (used by) discontinued operations, capital expenditures, partnership distributions and principal payments on capital leases. Management uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate the Company's business. The Company believes this measure is an important indicator of its liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt
and make strategic investments, because it reflects the Company's operating cash flow after considering the significant capital expenditures required to operate its business. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such expenditures through other financial measures such as return on investment analyses.
Both OIBDA and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income, net income and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. As of March 31, 2008, Time Warner
About Time Warner Cable
 
Cable served approximately 14.7 million customers who subscribed to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services, representing approximately 33.0 million revenue generating units.
Information on 2008 Business Outlook Release and Conference Call
Time Warner Cable issued a separate release today regarding its updated 2008 full-year business outlook.
The Company's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, April 30, 2008. To listen to the call, visit or AOL Keyword: TWC IR.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


