FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20081105071311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On November 5, 2008, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Revenues Increased 8%, OIBDA Rose 9%, Operating Income Climbed 16%, Basic and Diluted EPS Grew by 24% over Prior Year Quarter
Free Cash Flow for Nine Months Was Up 64% Compared to Last Year
Revenue Generating Units Grew 522,000  The 14
th
Consecutive Quarter of RGU Growth Exceeding 500,000
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2008.
NEW YORK, NY, November 5, 2008 
Time Warner Cable President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "Time Warner Cable delivered another strong quarter of operational and financial growth. Our communications and entertainment services continue to be a vital part of consumers' lives, as evidenced this quarter by growth in bundled services and customer relationships. In particular, we generated very strong high-speed data net additions that far outpaced the telcos' broadband additions."
Britt added: "While the uncertain economy is presenting numerous challenges for companies and consumers alike, Time Warner Cable will continue to manage its business and balance sheet prudently and strategically for competitive strength, long-term growth and shareholder value."
THIRD-QUARTER RESULTS
for the third quarter of 2008 increased 8% ($339 million) over the prior year quarter to $4.3 billion. Subscription revenues grew 9% ($336 million) to $4.1 billion. Video revenues rose 4% ($109 million) to $2.6 billion, driven by continued growth in digital video services and video price increases. High-speed data revenues increased 12% ($114 million) to $1.1 billion, as a result of continued high-speed data subscriber growth. Voice revenues were up 37% ($113 million) to $421 million, reflecting growth in Digital Phone subscribers. Advertising revenues grew 1% ($3 million) to $224 million primarily due to an increase in political advertising revenues, partially offset by a decline in advertising revenues from national, regional and local businesses.
Revenues
rose 9% ($126 million) over the third quarter of 2007 to $1.6 billion, benefiting from revenue growth, offset partially by higher employee, video programming and voice costs. Employee costs grew 9% ($72 million), resulting primarily from headcount and salary increases. Video programming expenses rose 8% ($68 million) to $949 million, due to contractual rate increases and a higher percentage of basic video subscribers who also subscribe to expanded tiers of video services. Voice costs climbed 25% ($29 million) primarily reflecting growth in Digital Phone subscribers.
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("OIBDA")
 
OIBDA in the third quarter of 2008 also included a $13 million benefit due to changes in estimates of previously established casualty insurance accruals and a $10 million negative impact as a result of service outages and damage to plant infrastructure caused by Hurricane Ike. Additionally, the current year period included restructuring expenses of $8 million, compared to merger-related and restructuring expenses of $4 million in the prior year period.
was up 16% ($107 million) over the third quarter of 2007 to $788 million, due to higher OIBDA, offset in part by increased depreciation expense ($17 million).
Operating Income
Income and Per Share Results
For the third quarter of 2008, net income was $301 million, or $0.31 per basic and diluted common share, compared to net income of $248 million, or $0.25 per basic and diluted common share, for the third quarter of 2007. This increase was due to higher Operating Income, offset in part by higher income tax provision and minority interest expense.
Certain pretax items in the current year quarter affected comparability, including $53 million of costs associated with the Company's planned separation from Time Warner. The $53 million of separation-related costs consisted of $3 million of direct transaction costs and $50 million of financing costs primarily related to the funding of the planned $10.9 billion special dividend. On an after-tax basis, these items reduced net income by $32 million, or $0.03 per basic and diluted common share.
for the first nine months of 2008 was $3.9 billion, an increase of $611 million over the first nine months of 2007. This increase was driven by higher Adjusted OIBDA, a favorable change in working capital requirements and lower tax and interest payments, offset partially by higher pension plan contributions.
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
for the first nine months of 2008 totaled $2.6 billion, an increase of $167 million compared to the first nine months of 2007, largely reflecting higher customer premise equipment purchases, which rose 12% ($131 million).
Capital Expenditures
for the first nine months of 2008 was $1.3 billion, an increase of $501 million, or 64%, over the first nine months of 2007, due mainly to an increase in cash provided by operating activities, offset in part by higher capital expenditures. Net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity membership units, as of September 30, 2008, totaled $13.0 billion compared to $13.6 billion as of December 31, 2007.
Free Cash Flow
 
 
SUBSCRIBER UPDATE
For definitions of certain terms, please refer to Table 2 below, which presents select subscriber and penetration data.
Highlights
totaled 34.2 million at September 30, 2008  reflecting net additions of 522,000, the 14 consecutive quarter of RGU growth exceeding 500,000. were 14.7 million, and approached 3.0 million (or 20% of total customer relationships), benefiting from 168,000 net additions during the third quarter.
Revenue generating units ("RGUs")
th
Customer relationships
Triple play subscribers
 
 
Use of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("OIBDA") is a financial measure not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The Company defines OIBDA as Operating Income before depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets. The Company also evaluates the performance of its business using OIBDA excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales (referred to herein as "Adjusted OIBDA"). Management utilizes OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the uneven effect across its business of considerable amounts of depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations. Additionally, management utilizes OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA because it believes these measures provide valuable insight into the underlying performance of the Company's individual cable systems by removing the effects of items that are not within the control of local personnel charged with managing these systems such as income tax provision, other income (expense), net, minority interest expense, net, income from equity investments, net, and interest expense, net. In this regard, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA are significant measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA also are metrics used by the Company's parent, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"), to evaluate the Company's performance, and OIBDA is an important measure in the Time Warner reportable segment disclosures. A limitation of OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, however, is that they do not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's business. Moreover, Adjusted OIBDA does not reflect gains and losses on asset sales or any impairment charge related to goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates the investments in such tangible and intangible assets through other financial measures, such as capital expenditure budget variances, investment spending levels and return on capital analyses. Another limitation of these measures is that they do not reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes, debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA related to the minority ownership, the results of the Company's equity investments or other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for this limitation through other financial measures such as a review of net income and earnings per share.
Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities (as defined under GAAP) plus excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less cash provided by (used by) discontinued operations, capital expenditures, partnership distributions and principal payments on capital leases. Management uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate the Company's business. The Company believes this measure is an important indicator of its liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt and make strategic investments, because it reflects the Company's operating cash flow after considering the significant capital expenditures required to operate its business. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such expenditures through other financial measures such as return on investment analyses.
OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income, net income and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. As of September 30, 2008, Time
 
Warner Cable served approximately 14.7 million customers who subscribed to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services, representing approximately 34.2 million revenue generating units.
Information on 2008 Business Outlook Release and Conference Call
Time Warner Cable issued a separate release today regarding its updated 2008 full-year business outlook. The Company's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, November 5, 2008. To listen to the call, visit or AOL Keyword: TWC IR.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, the planned separation from Time Warner Inc., and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year's financial information to conform to the September 30, 2008 presentation.
 
 


