FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20080806071812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On August 6, 2008, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 6, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Revenue Generating Units Grew by 656,000  Best Second Quarter Ever
Revenues Rose 7%, Adjusted OIBDA Grew 9% and Operating Income Increased 4% over Prior Year Quarter
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2008.
NEW YORK, NY, August 6, 2008 
Time Warner Cable President and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "We added 20% more RGUs this quarter than in last year's second quarter, fueled by improved net additions in every RGU category, despite a challenging economic environment. We also increased our Triple Play subscribers by a net 214,000, demonstrating that the value and simplicity of our bundles continue to attract consumers. The strength of our subscription business drove a 7% increase in revenues and a 9% rise in Adjusted OIBDA."
      
for the second quarter of 2008 increased 7% ($284 million) over the prior year quarter to $4.3 billion. Subscription revenues grew 7% ($277 million) to $4.1 billion. Video revenues were up 2% ($57 million) to $2.6 billion, driven by continued growth in digital video services and video price increases, offset in part by a decrease in pay-per-view event revenues. High-speed data revenues rose 12% ($108 million) to $1.0 billion, as a result of continued year-over-year high-speed data subscriber growth. Voice revenues were up 39% ($112 million) to $397 million, reflecting a net increase in Digital Phone subscribers. Advertising revenues grew 3% ($7 million) to $233 million.
SECOND-QUARTER RESULTS Revenues
which excludes a noncash pretax impairment loss of $45 million on cable systems held for sale, rose 9% ($126 million) over the second quarter of 2007 to $1.6 billion, benefiting from revenue growth, offset partially by higher video programming, employee, voice and marketing costs. Video programming expenses increased 6% ($57 million) to $939 million, due to contractual rate increases and an increase in the percentage of basic video subscribers who also subscribe to expanded tiers of video services. Employee costs increased 5% ($40 million), resulting primarily from headcount and salary increases, offset partly by lower equity-based compensation expense, due mainly to the timing of 2008 grants. Voice costs rose 21% ($23 million) reflecting primarily growth in Digital Phone subscribers, offset partially by a decline in per-subscriber connectivity costs. Marketing expenses grew 14% ($19 million) to $151 million, resulting from intensified marketing efforts. Additionally, the prior year period included $6 million of merger-related and restructuring expenses.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA"),
 
was up 4% ($27 million) over the same quarter of 2007 to $738 million, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA, offset partly by increased depreciation expense ($53 million) and a noncash pretax impairment loss on cable systems held for sale ($45 million).
Operating Income
For the second quarter of 2008, net income was $277 million, or $0.28 per basic and diluted common share, compared to net income of $272 million, or $0.28 per basic and diluted common share, for the second quarter of 2007.
Income and Per Share Results
Certain pretax items in the current year quarter affected comparability, including $47 million of costs associated with the Company's planned separation from Time Warner, a $45 million noncash impairment loss on cable systems held for sale and an $8 million noncash impairment charge on an equity-method investment. The $47 million of separation-related costs consisted of $10 million of direct transaction costs and $37 million of financing costs related to the funding of the planned $10.9 billion special dividend. On an after-tax basis, these items reduced net income by $62 million or $0.06 per basic and diluted common share. Excluding the impact of these items, net income increased for the second quarter of 2008 as compared to the same quarter of 2007, due primarily to an increase in Operating Income and a decrease in interest expense offset in part by higher income tax provision.
for the first six months of 2008 was $2.5 billion, an increase of $331 million over the first six months of 2007, driven by an increase in Adjusted OIBDA and a change in working capital requirements, offset partially by higher pension plan contributions.
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
for the first six months of 2008 totaled $1.7 billion, an increase of $157 million compared to the first six months of 2007, due primarily to higher customer premise equipment purchases, which rose 16% ($120 million).
Capital Expenditures
for the first six months of 2008 was $825 million, an increase of $234 million over the first six months of 2007, due mainly to an increase in cash provided by operating activities, offset in part by an increase in capital expenditures. Net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity membership units, as of June 30, 2008, totaled $12.9 billion.
Free Cash Flow
 
For definitions of certain terms, please refer to Table 2 below, which presents select subscriber and penetration data.
SUBSCRIBER UPDATE
Highlights
exceeded 33.6 million  reflecting net additions of 656,000, a record for any second quarter  driven by year-over-year improvement in net additions in all RGU categories. totaled 14.7 million, and surpassed 2.8 million (or 19% of total customer relationships), benefiting from 214,000 net additions during the second quarter.
RGUs
Customer relationships
Triple Play subscribers
 
 
      
Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("OIBDA") is a financial measure not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The Company defines OIBDA as Operating Income before depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets. The Company also evaluates the performance of its business using OIBDA excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales (referred to herein as "Adjusted OIBDA"). Management utilizes OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the uneven effect across its business of considerable amounts of depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations. Additionally, management utilizes OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA because it believes these measures provide valuable insight into the underlying performance of the Company's individual cable systems by removing the effects of items that are not within the control of local personnel charged with managing these systems such as income tax provision, other income (expense), net, minority interest expense, net, income from equity investments, net, and interest expense, net. In this regard, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA are significant measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA also are metrics used by the Company's parent, Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner"), to evaluate the Company's performance, and OIBDA is an important measure in the Time Warner reportable segment disclosures. A limitation of OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, however, is that they do not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's business. Moreover, Adjusted OIBDA does not reflect gains and losses on asset sales or any impairment charge related to goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates the investments in such tangible and intangible assets through other financial measures, such as capital expenditure budget variances, investment spending levels and return on capital analyses. Another limitation of these measures is that they do not reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes, debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA related to the minority ownership, the results of the Company's equity investments or other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for this limitation through other financial measures such as a review of net income and earnings per share.
Use of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow
Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities (as defined under GAAP) plus excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less cash provided by (used by) discontinued operations, capital expenditures, partnership distributions and principal payments on capital leases. Management uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate the Company's business. The Company believes this measure is an important indicator of its liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt and make strategic investments, because it reflects the Company's operating cash flow after considering the significant capital expenditures required to operate its business. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such expenditures through other financial measures such as return on investment analyses.
OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income, net income and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
      
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. As of June 30, 2008, Time Warner Cable served approximately 14.7 million customers who subscribed to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services, representing approximately 33.6 million revenue generating units.
About Time Warner Cable
 
Information on 2008 Business Outlook Release and Conference Call
Time Warner Cable issued a separate release today regarding its updated 2008 full-year business outlook.
The Company's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, August 6, 2008. To listen to the call, visit or AOL Keyword: TWC IR.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
      
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, the planned separation from Time Warner Inc., and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year's financial information to conform to the June 30, 2008 presentation.
 
 


