FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20091105071935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
          On November 5, 2009, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 5, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2009.
NEW YORK, NY, November 5, 2009 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "In the third quarter we grew both Revenues and Adjusted OIBDA by 4%, and we continued to generate a considerable amount of cash. This has enabled us to further pay down the debt we incurred to fund our special dividend. We're on track to return to our target leverage in the first quarter of 2010."
Britt added: "Our business model is resilient even in a tough economy and in the face of intense competition. We've built great assets in our plant and customer relationships that provide a strong foundation for continuing growth. We intend to continue operating the business aggressively yet prudently to generate attractive returns for our shareholders."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Revenues for the third quarter of 2009 increased 4% over the prior year quarter to $4.5 billion. Subscription revenues grew 5% to $4.3 billion driven by video price increases and continued growth in digital video, high-speed data and Digital Phone subscribers, partially offset by a year-over-year decrease in basic video subscribers (resulting, in part, from the sale of a group of small cable systems in December 2008). Advertising revenues declined 19% to $182 million, due primarily to year-over-year declines in the auto, media and political categories.
rose 4% over the third quarter of 2008 to $1.6 billion. The year-over-year increase in Adjusted OIBDA was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by higher video programming, employee and voice costs. Video programming expenses grew 6% to $1.0 billion due to contractual rate increases, incremental retransmission consent
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
 
expense and the expansion of service offerings, offset, in part, by a decline in basic video and premium channel subscriptions. Employee costs were up 4% to $911 million, resulting primarily from higher employee medical and pension expenses. Voice costs increased 12% to $161 million primarily reflecting growth in Digital Phone subscribers. Adjusted OIBDA for the third quarter of 2009 excludes restructuring costs and separation-related "make-up" equity award costs, while Adjusted OIBDA in the prior year period excludes restructuring costs. was up 5% over the third quarter of 2008 to $828 million as depreciation expense grew less than Adjusted OIBDA.
Operating Income
was $268 million, or $0.76 per basic and diluted common share, for the third quarter of 2009. Net income attributable to TWC decreased for the third quarter of 2009 compared to the third quarter of 2008 due primarily to higher interest expense related to the debt incurred to fund the Company's $10.9 billion special cash dividend paid in March 2009, partly offset by an increase in Operating Income and decreases in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and income tax expense. Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for details regarding certain items affecting the comparability of net income attributable to TWC for the third quarter of 2009 to that of the third quarter of 2008.
Net Income Attributable to TWC
for the first nine months of 2009 was $2.5 billion, a 27% increase over the first nine months of 2008, due to lower capital expenditures and higher Adjusted OIBDA. for the first nine months of 2009 totaled $2.3 billion, an 11% decrease compared to the first nine months of 2008, largely reflecting lower residential capital spending, particularly lower spending on customer premise equipment, upgrades/rebuilds and line extensions, partially offset by higher commercial capital spending.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
 
for the first nine months of 2009 increased 19% to $1.5 billion from $1.3 billion in the first nine months of 2008, due mainly to lower capital expenditures, partially offset by a decrease in cash provided by operating activities. for the first nine months of 2009 was $3.8 billion, a 2% decrease from $3.9 billion in the first nine months of 2008. This decrease was related primarily to an increase in net cash interest payments, offset partly by higher Adjusted OIBDA, lower pension plan contributions and a change in working capital requirements. Free Cash Flow per diluted common share was $4.29 for the first nine months of 2009 compared to $3.85 in the first nine months of 2008.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
totaled $22.0 billion as of September 30, 2009 compared to $12.6 billion as of December 31, 2008, due to net borrowings to fund the Company's special cash dividend paid in March 2009. Net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity decreased from $22.4 billion as of June 30, 2009 driven by Free Cash Flow.
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
, which represent the total of all video, high-speed data and voice subscribers, increased by 109,000 to 26.3 million. increased by 39,000 and 49,000, respectively, and bundled subscribers totaled 8.3 million, or 56% of total customer relationships as of September 30, 2009.
Primary Service Units ("PSUs")
Double and Triple Play Subscribers
Refer to the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's website at for definitions related to the Company's subscriber metrics.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow. Refer to Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. Time Warner Cable serves more than 14 million customers who subscribe to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers a suite of phone, Internet, Ethernet and cable television services to businesses of all sizes. Time Warner Cable Media Sales, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions that are targeted and affordable. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , and .
www.timewarnercable.com
www.twcbc.com
www.twcmediasales.com
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Thursday, November 5, 2009. To listen to the call, visit
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts:
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
1.   CHANGES IN BASIS OF PRESENTATION
     Effective January 1, 2009, Time Warner Cable Inc. (the "Company" or "TWC") adopted authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board that establishes accounting and reporting standards for a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, including the accounting treatment upon the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. As required by this guidance, the Company has recast the presentation of noncontrolling interests in the prior year financial statements so that they are comparable to those of 2009.
     On March 12, 2009, the Company implemented a reverse stock split of all outstanding and treasury shares of TWC Common Stock at a 1-for-3 ratio. The Company has recast the presentation of share and per share data in the prior year financial statements to reflect the reverse stock split.
     Certain other reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the September 30, 2009 presentation.
2.   ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY
     The following items affected the comparability of net income attributable to TWC for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
3.   USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
     Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization is a financial measure not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The Company defines Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization as Operating Income (Loss) before depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets. The Company also evaluates the performance of its business using Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales, merger-related and restructuring costs and costs associated with equity awards granted to offset the reduction in value as a result of the Company's separation from Time Warner of Time Warner equity awards held by TWC employees ("Separation-related "make-up" equity award costs") (referred to herein as "Adjusted OIBDA"). Management utilizes Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the uneven effect across its business of considerable amounts of depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations. Additionally, management utilizes Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted OIBDA because it believes these measures provide valuable insight into the underlying performance of the Company's individual cable systems by removing the effects of items that are not within the control of local personnel charged with managing these systems such as net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax benefit (provision), other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net. Similarly, management uses Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures to evaluate the performance of its business because it reflects management's capital spending decisions. In this regard, Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures are significant components of measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs.
     A limitation of Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted OIBDA, however, is that they do not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's business. Moreover, Adjusted OIBDA does not reflect gains and losses on asset sales, any impairment charge related to goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets, merger-related and restructuring costs or Separation-related "make-up" equity award costs. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates the investments in such tangible and intangible assets through other financial measures, such as capital expenditure budget variances, investment spending levels and return on capital analyses. Another limitation of these measures is that they do not reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes, debt servicing costs, the share of Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted OIBDA related to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments or other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for this limitation through other financial measures such as a review of net income (loss) attributable to TWC and net income (loss) attributable to TWC per common share.
     Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure, as are measures derived from Free Cash Flow. The Company defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities (as defined under GAAP) plus excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less cash provided by (used by) discontinued operations, capital expenditures, cash paid for other intangible assets, partnership distributions and principal payments on capital leases. Management uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate the Company's business. The Company believes this measure is an important indicator of its liquidity, including its
 
ability to reduce net debt and make strategic investments, because it reflects the Company's operating cash flow after considering the significant capital expenditures required to operate its business. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such expenditures through other financial measures such as return on investment analyses.
     Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures, Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow per diluted common share should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), net income (loss) attributable to TWC and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.


