FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20090429071240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
     On April 29, 2009, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 29, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2009.
NEW YORK, NY, April 29, 2009 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "Time Warner Cable performed well in the first quarter, growing revenues, adjusted OIBDA and free cash flow from last year. We added very healthy numbers of new subscribers to our video, high-speed data and phone services, and our commercial services business continued to grow rapidly."
Britt added: "We're excited to be an independent company. Cable is a very good business, and our operations are strong and growing despite a challenging economy. We continue to generate very healthy free cash flow which will enable us to reduce debt over the next year."
FIRST-QUARTER RESULTS
for the first quarter of 2009 increased 5% ($204 million) over the prior year quarter to $4.4 billion. Subscription revenues grew 6% ($256 million) to $4.2 billion. Video revenues rose 2% ($64 million) to $2.7 billion, driven by video price increases and continued growth in digital video subscriptions partially offset by a year-over-year decrease in basic video subscribers and premium channel and transactional video-on-demand revenues. High-speed data revenues increased 11% ($107 million) to $1.1 billion, as a result of continued residential high-speed data subscriber growth and increased average revenue per commercial subscriber. Voice revenues were up 23% ($85 million) to $451 million, reflecting growth in Digital Phone subscribers partially offset by a decrease in average revenue per subscriber. Advertising revenues declined 26% ($52 million) to $145 million due to declines in most advertising categories.
Revenues
rose 7% ($103 million) over the first quarter of 2008 to $1.5 billion. Adjusted OIBDA excludes restructuring costs of $43 million compared to $2 million in the prior year quarter. Adjusted OIBDA benefited from revenue growth, partially offset by higher video programming, employee and voice costs. Video programming expenses grew 8% ($74 million) to $1.0 billion, due to contractual rate increases and the expansion of service offerings, offset in part by lower costs resulting from a decline in basic video subscribers and declines in subscriptions to premium channels and transactional video-on-demand purchases. Employee costs were up 4% ($35 million), resulting primarily from headcount and salary increases. Voice costs climbed 19% ($24 million) primarily reflecting growth in Digital Phone subscribers. Marketing expenses declined 11% ($18 million) to $140 million.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
was up 13% ($80 million) over the first quarter of 2008 to $716 million, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower depreciation and amortization expense ($18 million), offset in part by increased restructuring costs ($41 million).
Operating Income
 
Net Income Attributable to TWC
For the first quarter of 2009, net income attributable to TWC was $164 million, or $0.48 per basic and diluted common share, compared to net income attributable to TWC of $242 million, or $0.74 per basic and diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2008.
Certain pretax items in the first quarter of 2009 affected comparability to the prior year quarter, including $43 million of restructuring costs, $40 million of costs associated with the Company's separation from Time Warner Inc., an $11 million benefit from an adjustment to reduce excess amortization recorded in prior years and a $10 million noncash impairment of the Company's investment in The Reserve Fund's Primary Fund. The $40 million of separation-related costs consisted of $27 million of direct transaction costs (e.g., legal and professional fees) and $13 million of debt issuance costs. Additionally, the income tax provision for the first quarter of 2009 included $38 million of expense related to certain state tax law changes in California. On an after-tax basis, these items reduced first-quarter 2009 net income attributable to TWC by $92 million, or $0.27 per basic and diluted common share. In the first quarter of 2008, the Company recorded a $9 million gain from the sale of a cost-method investment, $2 million of restructuring costs, and $2 million of direct transaction costs associated with the Company's separation from Time Warner Inc. On an after-tax basis, these items increased first-quarter 2008 net income attributable to TWC by $1 million and had no impact per basic and diluted common share. Excluding the impact of these items, net income attributable to TWC increased for the first quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter of 2008, due primarily to an increase in Operating Income, offset partly by higher interest expense related to the debt incurred to fund the Company's $10.9 billion special cash dividend paid in March 2009.
for the first three months of 2009 was $1.1 billion, a decrease of $45 million over the first three months of 2008. This decrease was primarily driven by higher interest payments offset partly by higher Adjusted OIBDA and a net tax reimbursement from Time Warner Inc. in accordance with the companies' tax sharing arrangement.
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
for the first three months of 2009 totaled $769 million, a decrease of $77 million compared to the first three months of 2008, largely reflecting lower residential capital spending, particularly lower residential customer premise equipment purchases.
Capital Expenditures
for the first three months of 2009 was $738 million, an increase of $180 million, or 32%, over the first three months of 2008, due to both higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower capital expenditures.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
for the first three months of 2009 increased 11% to $367 million from $331 million in the first three months of 2008, due mainly to lower capital expenditures, offset partly by a decrease in cash provided by operating activities. Free cash flow per diluted common share was $1.08 for the first quarter of 2009 compared to $1.02 in the first quarter of 2008.
Free Cash Flow
, as of March 31, 2009, totaled $23.1 billion compared to $12.6 billion as of December 31, 2008, due to net borrowings to fund the Company's special cash dividend payment in March 2009.
Net debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred equity membership units
 
SUBSCRIBER UPDATE
For definitions of certain terms, please refer to Table 2 below, which presents select subscriber and penetration data.
Highlights
were 14.7 million as of March 31, 2009. , which represent the total of all video, high-speed data and voice subscribers, reached 26.0 million with net additions of 435,000 during the first quarter of 2009. totaled 34.8 million  reflecting net additions of 556,000 during the first quarter of 2009. exceeded 3.2 million (or 22% of total customer relationships), benefiting from 146,000 net additions during the first quarter of 2009. Over 55% of customers received bundled services as of March 31, 2009.
Customer relationships
Primary service units ("PSUs")
Revenue generating units ("RGUs")
Triple Play subscribers
 
 
 
Use of Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA and Free Cash Flow
Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization is a financial measure not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The Company defines Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization as Operating Income (Loss) before depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets. The Company also evaluates the performance of its business using Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization excluding the impact of noncash impairments of goodwill, intangible and fixed assets, as well as gains and losses on asset sales, merger-related and restructuring costs and costs associated with equity awards granted to offset the reduction in value as a result of the Company's separation from Time Warner Inc. ("Time Warner") of Time Warner equity awards held by TWC employees ("Separation-related "make-up" equity award costs") (referred to herein as "Adjusted OIBDA"). Management utilizes Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the uneven effect across its business of considerable amounts of depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations. Additionally, management utilizes Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted OIBDA because it believes these measures provide valuable insight into the underlying performance of the Company's individual cable systems by removing the effects of items that are not within the control of local personnel charged with managing these systems such as net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax benefit (provision), other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net. Similarly, management uses Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures to evaluate the performance of its business because it reflects management's capital spending decisions. In this regard, Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures are significant components of measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs.
A limitation of Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted OIBDA, however, is that they do not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues in the Company's business. Moreover, Adjusted OIBDA does not reflect gains and losses on asset sales, any impairment charge related to goodwill, intangible assets and fixed assets, merger-related and restructuring costs or Separation-related "make-up" equity award costs. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates the investments in such tangible and intangible assets through other financial measures, such as capital expenditure budget variances, investment spending levels and return on capital analyses. Another limitation of these measures is that they do not reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes, debt servicing costs, the share of Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization and Adjusted OIBDA related to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments or other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for this limitation through other financial measures such as a review of net income (loss) attributable to TWC and net income (loss) attributable to TWC per common share.
Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Company defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities (as defined under GAAP) plus excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options, less cash provided by (used by) discontinued operations, capital expenditures, cash paid for other intangible assets, partnership distributions and principal payments on capital leases. Management uses Free Cash Flow to evaluate the Company's business. The Company believes this measure is an important indicator of its liquidity, including its ability to reduce net debt and make strategic investments, because it reflects the Company's operating cash flow after considering the significant capital expenditures required to operate its business. A limitation of this measure, however, is that it does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such expenditures through other financial measures such as return on investment analyses.
Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), net income (loss) attributable to TWC and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity
 
reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. Time Warner Cable serves more than 14 million customers who subscribe to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers a suite of phone, Internet, Ethernet and cable television services to businesses of all sizes. Time Warner Cable Media Sales, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions that are targeted and affordable. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , and .
www.timewarnercable.com
www.twcbc.com
www.twcmediasales.com
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Wednesday, April 29, 2009. To listen to the call, visit .
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts:
 
See accompanying note.
 
 
See accompanying note.
 
 
See accompanying note.
 
 
 
1. CHANGES IN BASIS OF PRESENTATION
     Effective January 1, 2009, Time Warner Cable Inc. (the "Company" or "TWC") adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160, ("FAS 160"). As provided for in FAS 160, the Company has recast the presentation of noncontrolling interests in the prior year financial statements so that they are comparable to those of 2009.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statementsan amendment of ARB No. 51
     On March 12, 2009, the Company implemented a reverse stock split of all outstanding and treasury shares of TWC Common Stock at a 1-for-3 ratio. The Company has recast the presentation of share and per share data in the prior year financial statements to reflect the reverse stock split.
     Certain other reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the March 31, 2009 presentation.
     During the first quarter of 2009, the Company revised its definition of Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization to exclude restructuring costs in addition to the previously excluded items. Additionally, the Company revised its definition of Free Cash Flow to deduct cash paid for other intangible assets. These revised definitions have been applied for all periods presented.


