FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20091215162127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
_______________
 
FORM
 
8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): December 9, 2009
 
TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 364-8200 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
          On December 9, 2009, Time Warner Cable Inc. (the "Company") renewed its employment agreement with Carl U.J. Rossetti, which extends the term of Mr. Rossetti's employment as Executive Vice President through December 31, 2012 on the same terms as the employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Rossetti dated June 1, 2000, as amended effective January 1, 2008 (the "Rossetti Employment Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Rossetti Employment Agreement, the failure by either the Company or Mr. Rossetti to extend the term of the Rossetti Employment Agreement on the same terms and conditions for an additional year would have triggered the payment of severance benefits to Mr. Rossetti.
 
          On December 10, 2009, the Company and Mr. Rossetti entered into the second amendment to the Rossetti Employment Agreement, effective January 1, 2010 (the "Second Amendment"). The Second Amendment makes the following material changes to the Rossetti Employment Agreement:
 
 
 
 
 
          In addition, all references to Time Warner Inc. that became inoperative because the Company is no longer a consolidated subsidiary and to the Company's Stamford, Connecticut office are deleted from the Employment Agreement and/or replaced with appropriate references to the Company and the Company's New York office.
 
2
 
SIGNATURE
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
TIME WARNER CABLE INC.
 
& Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
3
 
 


