FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20100805070833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
          On August 5, 2010, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   August 5, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2010.
NEW YORK, NY, August 5, 2010 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "I'm very pleased with our performance in the second quarter, highlighted by accelerated revenue growth in our advertising and commercial businesses, steady revenue increases in our residential subscription operations and particularly strong free cash flow growth. Through our consistent focus on the fundamentals  better understanding our customers' needs and improving the efficiency of our operations  we continue to deliver attractive financial results and create value for our shareholders."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
for the second quarter of 2010 increased 5.8% from the second quarter of 2009 to $4.7 billion. Subscription revenues grew 5.1% year-over-year to $4.5 billion, driven by a 4.2% increase in residential subscription revenues and a 20.2% increase in commercial subscription revenues. Advertising revenues increased 24.1% to $216 million. Residential subscription revenue growth was driven by increases in high-speed data, video and voice revenues. The growth in residential high-speed data revenues was the result of growth in high-speed data subscribers and, to a lesser extent, increases in average revenues per subscriber. Residential video revenues increased as a result of video price increases, the continued growth of digital video subscribers and increases in DVR service revenues and transactional video-on-demand revenues, partially offset by a year-over-year decline in video subscribers. The growth in residential voice revenues was driven by an increase in Digital Phone subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in average monthly revenues per Digital Phone subscriber. Commercial subscription revenue growth was due primarily to increases in Business Class Phone and commercial high-speed data subscribers and an increase in cell tower backhaul and Metro Ethernet revenues. Advertising revenue growth was driven by year-over-year increases in a wide range of categories, most significantly automotive and political.
Revenues
 
rose 6.0% over the second quarter of 2009 to $1.8 billion. The increase was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by a 5.7% increase in operating expenses. In particular, video programming expenses grew 5.8% to $1.1 billion, employee expenses were 4.0% higher at $954 million, marketing expense was up 21.9% to $156 million, and voice costs increased 6.4% to $167 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense, which declined 21.6% to $40 million. Video programming expenses increased due to contractual rate increases, incremental retransmission consent expense and higher transactional video-on-demand expense offset, in part, by a decline in video subscribers and premium channel subscriptions. The growth in employee expenses was driven by higher headcount and compensation, partially as a result of increased costs associated with commercial service-related employees, and increases in employee medical expense offset, in part, by a decrease in pension expense. Marketing expenses increased primarily as a result of the timing of marketing spending. Voice costs increased due to subscriber growth. Bad debt expense declined primarily due to improvements in collection efforts. was up 4.1% over the second quarter of 2009 to $918 million primarily as a result of higher Adjusted OIBDA, partially offset by higher depreciation expense and an increase in restructuring costs.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
Operating Income
Adjusted OIBDA for the second quarter of 2010 excludes the expenses noted in the table below.
was $342 million, or $0.96 per basic and $0.95 per diluted common share, respectively, for the second quarter of 2010. Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements details certain items affecting the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders for the second quarter of 2010 to that for the second quarter of 2009, which reduced both basic
Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
 
and diluted earnings per share by $0.02 in each period. Excluding these items, second-quarter 2010 net income attributable to TWC shareholders increased compared to the prior year period, primarily reflecting higher Operating Income, partly offset by increases in other expense, net and income tax provision.
for the first six months of 2010 totaled $2.0 billion, a 19.6% increase over the first six months of 2009, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower capital expenditures. were $1.5 billion in the first six months of 2010, a 3.7% decrease from the first six months of 2009, largely reflecting lower residential capital spending, partly offset by higher commercial capital spending. The decline in residential capital spending was primarily attributable to lower spending on support capital and customer premise equipment. The increase in commercial capital spending was primarily related to higher spending on line extensions and scalable infrastructure.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
for the first six months of 2010 increased 18.6% to $1.2 billion from $1.0 billion in the first six months of 2009, due mainly to higher cash provided by operating activities and a decrease in capital expenditures. for the first six months of 2010 was $2.7 billion, a 4.7% increase from $2.6 billion in the first six months of 2009. This increase was related primarily to higher Adjusted OIBDA, an improvement in working capital requirements, and lower pension plan contributions, offset partly by increases in second quarter cash tax and interest payments.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
NM  Not meaningful.
 
totaled $20.7 billion as of June 30, 2010, down $850 million since December 31, 2009, driven by Free Cash Flow offset, in part, by the quarterly cash dividend payments and the increase in the fair value of debt subject to interest rate swap contracts (which was equal to the increase in the fair value of the underlying swaps, which are separately recorded as assets on the balance sheet).
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
increased by 60,000 to 26.7 million. net additions were 68,000 in the second quarter and bundled subscribers totaled 8.5 million, or 59.0% of total customer relationships as of June 30, 2010.
Primary Service Units ("PSUs")
Triple Play Subscriber
Refer to the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's website at for definitions related to the Company's subscriber metrics.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow. Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, Southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. Time Warner Cable serves more than 14 million customers who subscribe to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers a suite of phone, Internet, Ethernet and cable television services to businesses of all sizes. Time Warner Cable Media Sales, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions that are targeted and affordable. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , and .
www.timewarnercable.com
www.twcbc.com
www.twcmediasales.com
Additional details on financial and subscriber metrics are included in the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Thursday, August 5, 2010. To listen to the call, visit .
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
1.   ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY
     The following items affected the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009:
 
2.   USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
     In discussing its performance, the Company may use certain measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These measures include OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which the Company defines as follows:
 
     Management uses OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the effects of (1) considerable amounts of noncash depreciation and amortization and (2) items not within the control of the Company's operations managers (such as net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax benefit (provision), other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net). Adjusted OIBDA further eliminates the effects of certain noncash items identified in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also allows management to evaluate performance including the effect of capital spending decisions. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures are also significant performance measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. Management believes that Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of the Company's liquidity after the payment of cash taxes, interest and other cash items, including its ability to reduce net debt, pay dividends and make strategic investments. In addition, all of these measures are commonly used by analysts, investors and others in evaluating the Company's performance and liquidity.
     These measures have inherent limitations. For example, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA do not reflect capital expenditures or the periodic costs of certain capitalized assets used in generating revenues. To compensate for such limitations, management evaluates performance through Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which reflect capital expenditure decisions, and net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders, which reflects the periodic costs of capitalized assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures do not reflect any of the items noted as exclusions in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. To compensate for these limitations, management evaluates performance through OIBDA and net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders, which do reflect such items. OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also fail to reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes and debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments or other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for these limitations by using other analytics such as a review of net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders. Free Cash Flow, a liquidity measure, does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such investments and acquisitions through other measures such as return on investment analyses.
     These measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.


