FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20101104071059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
            The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
            On November 4, 2010, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2010.
NEW YORK, NY, November 4, 2010 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "This is an exciting time at Time Warner Cable. We're introducing several new offerings that give our customers control in ways that are simple and easy. We're performing well financially, despite the economic and competitive climate. And our confidence in the strength and stability of our cash flow makes it possible to return a large amount of capital to shareholders through regular dividends and the $4 billion share repurchase program we announced this morning."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
for the third quarter of 2010 increased 5.2% from the third quarter of 2009 to $4.7 billion. Subscription revenues grew 4.5% year-over-year to $4.5 billion, driven by a 3.5% increase in residential subscription revenues and a 21.6% increase in commercial subscription revenues. Advertising revenues increased 22.5% to $223 million. Residential subscription revenue growth was driven by increases in high-speed data, video and voice revenues. The growth in residential high-speed data revenues was the result of growth in high-speed data subscribers and, to a lesser extent, increases in average revenues per subscriber. Residential video revenues increased as a result of video price increases, year-over-year growth of digital video subscribers and an increase in DVR service revenues, partially offset by a year-over-year decline in video subscribers and a decrease in transactional video-on-demand revenues. The growth in residential voice revenues was driven by an increase in Digital Phone subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in average monthly revenues per Digital Phone subscriber. Commercial subscription revenue growth was due primarily to an increase in cell tower backhaul revenues and increases in Business Class Phone and commercial high-speed data subscribers. Advertising revenue growth was driven by year-over-year increases in a wide range of categories, most significantly automotive, media and political.
Revenues
 
 
 
NM  Not meaningful.
was $360 million, or $1.00 per basic and diluted common share, for the third quarter of 2010 compared to $268 million, or $0.76 per basic and diluted common share, in the prior year quarter.
Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
 
 
 
Refer to Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for certain items affecting the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders.
for the first nine months of 2010 totaled $3.0 billion, a 19.8% increase over the first nine months of 2009, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower capital expenditures. were $2.1 billion in the first nine months of 2010, a 6.1% decrease from the first nine months of 2009, largely reflecting lower residential capital spending, partly offset by higher commercial capital spending. The decline in residential capital spending was primarily attributable to lower spending on support capital, customer premise equipment and scalable infrastructure. The increase in commercial capital spending was primarily related to higher spending on line extensions and scalable infrastructure.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
 
 
for the first nine months of 2010 increased 8.2% to $1.6 billion from $1.5 billion in the first nine months of 2009, due to an increase in Adjusted OIBDA and decreases in capital expenditures and pension plan contributions, offset partly by higher cash tax and interest payments. for the first nine months of 2010 was $3.8 billion, a 0.8% decrease from the first nine months of 2009. This decrease was related primarily to increases in cash tax and interest payments, offset partly by higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower pension plan contributions.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
 
 
NM  Not meaningful.
 
totaled $20.5 billion as of September 30, 2010, down $1.1 billion since December 31, 2009. The decline in net debt and preferred equity was driven by Free Cash Flow offset, in part, by the quarterly cash dividend payments and the increase in the fair value of debt subject to interest rate swap contracts (which was equal to the increase in the fair value of the underlying swaps which are separately recorded as assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet).
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
 
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
In the third quarter, subscribers grew by 104,000 and subscribers increased by 34,000, while subscribers declined by 155,000, resulting in a net loss of 17,000 . net additions were 15,000 and net additions were 14,000 in the third quarter, and bundled subscribers totaled 8.6 million, or 59.4% of total customer relationships, as of September 30, 2010.
high-speed data
Digital Phone
video
Primary Service Units ("PSUs")
Double Play Subscriber
Triple Play Subscriber
 
 
Refer to the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's website at for definitions related to the Company's subscriber metrics.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow. Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, Southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. Time Warner Cable serves more than 14 million customers who subscribe to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers a suite of phone, Internet, Ethernet and cable television services to businesses of all sizes. Time Warner Cable Media Sales, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions that are targeted and affordable. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , and .
www.timewarnercable.com
www.twcbc.com
www.twcmediasales.com
Additional details on financial and subscriber metrics are included in the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Thursday, November 4, 2010. To listen to the call, visit
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
1.    ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY
       The following items affected the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009:
 
2.    USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
       In discussing its performance, the Company may use certain measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These measures include OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which the Company defines as follows:
 
       Management uses OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the effects of (1) considerable amounts of noncash depreciation and amortization and (2) items not within the control of the Company's operations managers (such as net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax benefit (provision), other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net). Adjusted OIBDA further eliminates the effects of certain noncash items identified in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also allows management to evaluate performance including the effect of capital spending decisions. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures are also significant performance measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. Management believes that Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of the Company's liquidity after the payment of cash taxes, interest and other cash items, including its ability to reduce net debt, pay dividends, repurchase common stock and make strategic investments. In addition, all of these measures are commonly used by analysts, investors and others in evaluating the Company's performance and liquidity.
       These measures have inherent limitations. For example, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA do not reflect capital expenditures or the periodic costs of certain capitalized assets used in generating revenues. To compensate for such limitations, management evaluates performance through Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which reflect capital expenditure decisions, and net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders, which reflects the periodic costs of capitalized assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures do not reflect any of the items noted as exclusions in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. To compensate for these limitations, management evaluates performance through OIBDA and net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders, which do reflect such items. OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also fail to reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes and debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments and other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for these limitations by using other analytics such as a review of net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders. Free Cash Flow, a liquidity measure, does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such investments and acquisitions through other measures such as return on investment analyses.
       These measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.


