FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20100128071214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
          On January 28, 2010, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 28, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009.
NEW YORK, NY, January 28, 2010 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "We enter 2010 with a strong business and a strong balance sheet, and we are very pleased to demonstrate confidence in our free cash flow by initiating a meaningful quarterly dividend. In the year ahead, we are excited about the investments we are making to drive further growth, and we expect to execute with the same discipline our investors have come to expect. We are well positioned to meet the challenges and opportunities ahead."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Fourth-quarter 2009 increased 3.0% from the fourth quarter of 2008 to $4.5 billion. Subscription revenues grew 4.2% year-over-year to $4.3 billion, driven by a 3.6% increase in residential subscription revenues and a 14.1% increase in commercial subscription revenues. Advertising revenues declined 17.6% to $201 million.
Revenues
Full-year revenues increased 3.9% over 2008 to $17.9 billion. Subscription revenues grew 5.3% to $17.2 billion, with residential subscription revenues increasing 4.8% and commercial subscription revenues growing 15.4%. Advertising revenues declined 21.8% to $702 million.
In both the fourth quarter and full year of 2009, residential subscription revenue growth was driven by increases in video, high-speed data and voice revenues. The growth in residential video revenues was the product of an increase in DVR service revenues, video price increases, and continued growth in digital video subscribers, partially offset by a year-over-year decline in video subscribers (resulting, in part, from the sale of a group of small cable systems in December 2008), a decrease in premium channel subscribers, and lower transactional video-on-demand revenues. Residential high-speed data revenues increased as a result of growth in HSD subscribers. The growth in residential voice revenues was driven by an increase in Digital Phone subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in average monthly revenue per Digital Phone subscriber. Commercial subscription revenue growth was due primarily to increases in commercial high-speed data and Business Class Phone subscribers and an increase in cell tower backhaul and Metro Ethernet revenues. The advertising revenue declines for both the quarter and full year were due primarily to year-over-year declines in the auto, political and media categories.
 
Fourth-quarter 2009 rose 3.0% over the fourth quarter of 2008 to $1.7 billion. The increase was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by a 3.0% increase in operating expenses. In particular, video programming expenses grew 5.2% to $985 million, employee costs were up 2.9% to $934 million, marketing expense grew 27.0% to $155 million and voice costs increased 11.6% to $163 million, while bad debt expense declined by $40 million. was $891 million compared to an Operating Loss of $13.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
Operating Income
Full-year 2009 Adjusted OIBDA rose 4.7% over 2008 to $6.5 billion. The year-over-year increase in Adjusted OIBDA was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by a 3.4% increase in operating expenses. For the full year, video programming expenses grew 6.5% to $4.0 billion, employee costs were up 2.5% to $3.7 billion, and voice costs increased 14.7% to $633 million, while bad debt expense declined by $38 million. Operating Income was $3.3 billion in 2009 compared to an Operating Loss of $11.8 billion in 2008.
In both the fourth-quarter and full-year 2009, video programming expenses increased due to contractual rate increases, incremental retransmission consent expense and the expansion of service offerings, offset, in part, by a decline in video and premium channel subscriptions; employee costs increased primarily as a result of higher employee pension and medical expenses; and voice costs increased due to growth in Digital Phone subscribers. Declines in bad debt expense in both periods reflected improvements in collection efforts and a reduction in the allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect the quality of residential receivables as of the end of 2009.
Adjusted OIBDA for the fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 excludes the expenses noted in the table below.
 
Fourth-quarter 2009 was $322 million, or $0.91 per basic and diluted common share, and full-year Net Income Attributable to TWC was $1.1 billion, or $3.07 per basic common share and $3.05 per diluted common share. Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements details certain items affecting the comparability of net income (loss) attributable to TWC for the fourth quarter and full year of 2009 to that for the fourth quarter and full year of 2008. Excluding these items, fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 net income attributable to TWC decreased compared to the prior year periods, primarily reflecting an increase in interest expense related to the debt incurred to fund the Company's March 2009 $10.9 billion special cash dividend, partly offset by a decrease in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and higher Operating Income.
Net Income Attributable to TWC
Full-year 2009 totaled $3.3 billion, a 21.7% increase over 2008, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower capital expenditures. were $3.2 billion in 2009, an 8.3% decrease from 2008, largely reflecting lower residential capital spending, particularly lower spending on customer premise equipment, upgrades/rebuilds and line extensions, partially offset by higher commercial capital spending.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
for the full-year 2009 increased 10.2% to $1.9 billion from $1.7 billion in 2008, due mainly to lower capital expenditures, partially offset by a decrease in cash provided by operating activities. for the full-year 2009 was $5.2 billion, a 2.3% decrease from $5.3 billion in the full-year 2008. This decrease was related primarily to an increase in net cash interest payments, a change in working capital requirements and higher restructuring payments, offset partly by higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower pension plan contributions.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
 
totaled $21.6 billion as of December 31, 2009, down $1.5 billion since March 31, 2009, the end of the quarter in which the Company paid its $10.9 billion special cash dividend, driven by Free Cash Flow.
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
For the full-year 2009, net additions were 795,000, including 101,000 in the fourth quarter. At December 31, 2009, total PSUs were 26.4 million. increased by 27,000 and 64,000 in the fourth quarter, respectively, and bundled subscribers totaled 8.3 million, or 57.3% of total customer relationships as of December 31, 2009.
Primary Service Unit ("PSU")
Double and Triple Play Subscribers
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow. Refer to Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. Time Warner Cable serves more than 14 million customers who subscribe to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers a suite of phone, Internet, Ethernet and cable television services to businesses of all sizes. Time Warner Cable Media Sales, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions that are targeted and affordable. More information about the
 
services of Time Warner Cable is available at , and .
www.timewarnercable.com
www.twcbc.com
www.twcmediasales.com
Information on Conference Call
.
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Thursday, January 28, 2010. To listen to the call, visit
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts:
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
1. CHANGES IN BASIS OF PRESENTATION
     Effective January 1, 2009, Time Warner Cable Inc. (the "Company" or "TWC") adopted authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board that establishes accounting and reporting standards for a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary, including the accounting treatment upon the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. As required by this guidance, the Company has recast the presentation of noncontrolling interests in the prior year financial statements so that they are comparable to those of 2009.
     On March 12, 2009, the Company implemented a reverse stock split of all outstanding and treasury shares of TWC Common Stock at a 1-for-3 ratio. The Company has recast the presentation of share and per share data in the prior year financial statements to reflect the reverse stock split.
     Certain other reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the December 31, 2009 presentation.
2. ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY
     The following items affected the comparability of net income attributable to TWC for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
3. USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
     In discussing its performance, the Company may use certain measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These measures include OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which the Company defines as follows:
     Management uses OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the effects of (1) considerable amounts of noncash depreciation and amortization and (2) items not within the control of the Company's operations managers (such as net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax benefit (provision), other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net). Adjusted OIBDA further eliminates the effects of certain noncash items identified in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also allows management to evaluate performance including the effect of capital spending decisions. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures are also significant performance measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. Free Cash Flow is used as an important indicator of the Company's liquidity after the payment of cash taxes, interest and other cash items, including its ability to reduce net debt, pay dividends and make strategic investments. In addition, management believes that all of these measures are commonly used by analysts, investors and others in evaluating the Company's performance and liquidity.
     These measures have inherent limitations. For example, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA do not reflect capital expenditures or the periodic costs of certain capitalized assets used in generating revenues. To compensate for such limitations, management evaluates performance through Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which reflect capital expenditures, and net income attributable to TWC, which reflects the periodic costs of capitalized assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures do not reflect any of the items noted as exclusions in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. To compensate for these limitations, management evaluates performance through OIBDA and net income attributable to TWC, which do reflect such items. OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also fail to reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes and debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments or other non-operational income or expense. Management
 
compensates for these limitations by using other analytics such as a review of net income (loss) attributable to TWC. Free Cash Flow, a liquidity measure, does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such investments and acquisitions through other measures such as return on investment analyses.
     These measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), net income (loss) attributable to TWC and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.


