FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20110526164014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On May 26, 2011, Time Warner Cable Inc. (the "Company") completed its offering of 625,000,000 principal amount of 5% Notes due 2031 (the "Notes"). The Notes are guaranteed by Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. and TW NY Cable Holding Inc., each a subsidiary of the Company (collectively, the "Guarantors").
     The offering of the Notes was registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-173760) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on April 28, 2011. The terms of the Notes are described in the Company's Prospectus dated April 28, 2011, as supplemented by a final Prospectus Supplement dated May 19, 2011, as filed with the Commission on May 19, 2011.
     The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007, as amended and supplemented (the "Indenture"), by and among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee. The Indenture was previously described in, and included as an exhibit to, the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 4, 2007, which was filed with the Commission on April 9, 2007.
     The Notes will mature on June 2, 2031. The Notes will bear interest at a rate of 5% per year, and interest on the Notes will be payable annually in arrears on June 2 of each year, beginning on June 2, 2012. The Notes are unsecured senior obligations of the Company and rank equally with its other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The guarantees of the Notes are unsecured senior obligations of the Guarantors and rank equally in right of payment with all other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Guarantors.
     The Company may redeem the Notes in whole or in part at any time at the Company's option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on the Notes discounted to the redemption date on an annual basis at a comparable government bond rate plus 30 basis points as further described in the Indenture and the Notes, plus, in each case, accrued but unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date.
     The Company may offer to redeem all, but not less than all, of the Notes in the event of certain changes in the tax laws of the United States (or any taxing authority in the United States). This redemption would be at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to, but not including, the date fixed for redemption.
     The Company will, subject to certain exceptions and limitations set forth in the Notes, pay additional amounts on the Notes as are necessary in order that the net payment by the Company or a paying agent of the principal of and interest on the Notes to a holder who is not a United States person, after withholding or deduction for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by the United States or a taxing authority in the United States will not be less than the amount provided in the Notes to be then due and payable.
     The Indenture contains customary covenants relating to restrictions on the ability of the Company or any material subsidiary to create liens and on the ability of the Company and the Guarantors to consolidate, merge or convey or transfer substantially all of their assets. The Indenture also contains customary events of default. The form of 5% Note due 2031 is attached as Exhibit 4.1 to this Report and is incorporated by reference into this Report and the Registration Statement.
     The Company expects to use the net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment of debt.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 26, 2011
 

Exhibit 4.1
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF EUROCLEAR BANK, S.A./N.V., AS OPERATOR OF THE EUROCLEAR SYSTEM ("EUROCLEAR") AND CLEARSTREAM BANKING, SOCIT ANONYME, LUXEMBOURG ("CLEARSTREAM, LUXEMBOURG" AND, TOGETHER WITH EUROCLEAR, "EUROCLEAR/CLEARSTREAM"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE BANK OF NEW YORK DEPOSITORY (NOMINEES) LIMITED OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF EUROCLEAR/CLEARSTREAM (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO THE BANK OF NEW YORK DEPOSITORY (NOMINEES) LIMITED OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF EUROCLEAR/CLEARSTREAM), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL IN AS MUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, THE BANK OF NEW YORK DEPOSITORY (NOMINEES) LIMITED, HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
CUSIP: 88732J AZ1 ISIN: XS0630584166 Common Code: 063058416
          Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (such corporation or any successor under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof being called the "Company"), TW NY Cable Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TW NY"), and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE" and, together with TW NY, the "Guarantors"), promise to pay to The Bank of New York Depository (Nominees) Limited as nominee of The Bank of New York Mellon, London Branch, a common depositary for Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. and Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, Luxembourg, or registered assigns, the principal sum of SIX HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE MILLION POUNDS STERLING (625,000,000) on June 2, 2031. This Note has the benefit of unconditional guarantees by the Guarantors, as more fully described on the reverse hereof.
          Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the other side of this Note.
Dated: May 26, 2011
 
 
 
     1. .
Indenture
          This Note (as defined below) is one of the duly authorized issue of senior debentures, notes, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Debt Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to the Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007, among the Company, TW NY, TWE, and The Bank of New York Mellon, formerly known as The Bank of New York, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the first supplemental indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007, between the Company, TW NY, TWE and the Trustee and pursuant to resolutions adopted by the Offering Committee of the Company on May 19, 2011, as authorized by the Company's Board of Directors (as so supplemented, the "Indenture"), to which reference is hereby made for a statement of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, and any agent of the Trustee, any Paying Agent, the Company, the Guarantors and the Holders of the Debt Securities, and the terms upon which the Debt Securities are issued and may be authenticated and delivered.
          The Debt Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may have different conversion prices or exchange provisions (if any), may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds (if any), may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as provided or permitted in the Indenture. This Note is one of the series of Debt Securities of the Company issued pursuant to the Indenture designated as the 5 /% Notes due 2031 (the "Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to 625,000,000. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, issue additional Notes having the same ranking, interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes. Any additional Notes will, together with the Notes, constitute a single series of the Notes under the Indenture. No additional Notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred with respect to the Notes.
3
4
     2. .
Interest
          The Company promises to pay interest from May 26, 2011, on the principal amount of this Note annually in cash in arrears on June 2 of each year, beginning June 2, 2012, in like coin or currency, at the rate per annum specified in the title hereof.
          Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days in the period for which interest is being calculated and the actual number of days from and including the date from which interest begins to accrue for the period to (or May 26, 2011 if no interest has been paid on the Notes), but excluding the next scheduled Interest Payment Date. If interest or principal on this Note is payable on a date that is not a Business Day, then interest will be paid on the first Business Day following the scheduled Interest Payment Date. Interest periods are unadjusted. The day count convention is ACTUAL/ACTUAL (ICMA).
          "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or the City of London are authorized or required by law or executive order to close.
 
2
     3. .
Guarantees
          Each of TW NY and TWE, as primary obligor and not merely as surety, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, to each Holder of Notes, and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, (i) the full and punctual payment of principal of and interest on the Notes when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, and all other monetary obligations of the Company under the Indenture (including obligations to the Trustee) and the Notes and (ii) the full and punctual performance within applicable grace periods of all other obligations of the Company under the Indenture and the Notes.
          The Guarantees constitute guarantees of payment, performance and compliance and not merely of collection. The obligation of the Guarantors to make any payments may be satisfied by causing the Company or any other Person to make such payments. Further, the Guarantors agree to pay any and all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) incurred by the Trustee or any Holder of Notes in enforcing any of their respective rights under the Guarantees.
     4. .
Issuance in Sterling
          Principal and interest payments in respect of the Notes will be payable in Sterling. If the United Kingdom adopts euro, in lieu of Sterling, as its lawful currency, the Notes will be redenominated in euro on a date determined by the Company, with a principal amount for each Note equal to the principal amount of that Note in Sterling, converted into euro at the rate established by the applicable law; provided that, if the Company determines after consultation with the Paying Agent that the then current market practice in respect of redenomination into euro of internationally offered securities is different from the provisions specified above, such provisions will be deemed to be amended so as to comply with such market practice and the Company will promptly notify the Trustee and the Paying Agent of such deemed amendment. The Company will give 30 days' notice of the redenomination date to the Paying Agent, the Trustee, and Euroclear/Clearstream.
          If Sterling or, in the event the Notes are redenominated in euro, euro is unavailable to the Company due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the Company's control (other than due to the circumstances described in the preceding paragraph), then all payments in respect of the Note will be made in U.S. dollars until Sterling or euro, as the case may be, is again available to the Company. The amount payable on any date in Sterling or, in the event the Notes are redenominated in euro, euro will be converted to U.S. dollars on the basis of the then most recently available market exchange rate for Sterling or euro, as the case may be. Any payment in respect of the Note so made in U.S. dollars will not constitute an event of default under the Indenture.
     5. .
Method of Payment
          The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any June 2 will, except as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date (herein called the "Regular Record Date") and may, at the option of the Company, be paid by check mailed to the registered address of such Person. Any such interest which is payable, but is not so punctually paid or duly provided for, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid either to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") on which the Notes will be listed and upon such notice as may be required by the NYSE, if such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
 
3
     6. .
Paying Agent
          Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon, London Branch will act as Paying Agent. The Company reserves the right at any time to vary or terminate the appointment of any Paying Agent, to appoint additional or other Paying Agents and to approve any change in the office through which any Paying Agent acts.
     7. .
Optional Redemption
          The Company will have the right at its option to redeem any of the Notes in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time prior to their maturity, on at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior notice mailed to the registered address of each Holder of Notes, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Notes and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments (as defined below) (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on an annual basis (ACTUAL/ACTUAL (ICMA)) at the Comparable Government Bond Rate plus 30 basis points plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the date of redemption.
          "Comparable Government Bond Rate" means the price, expressed as a percentage (rounded to three decimal places, 0.0005 being rounded upwards), at which the gross redemption yield (as calculated by the Trustee) on the Notes, if they were to be purchased at such price on the third Business Day prior to the date fixed for redemption, would be equal to the gross redemption yield on such Business Day of the Comparable Government Bond (as defined below) on the basis of the middle market price of the Comparable Government Bond prevailing at 11:00 a.m. (London time) on such Business Bay as determined by an independent investment bank selected by us.
          "Comparable Government Bond" means, in relation to any Comparable Government Bond Rate calculation, at the discretion of an independent investment bank selected by us, a United Kingdom government bond whose maturity is closest to the maturity of the Notes, or if such independent investment bank in its discretion considers that such similar bond is not in issue, such other United Kingdom government bond as such independent investment bank may, with the advice of three brokers of, and/or market makers in, United Kingdom government bonds selected by such independent investment bank, determine to be appropriate for determining the Comparable Government Bond Rate.
          "Remaining Scheduled Payments" means, with respect to each Note to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; , , , if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Note , the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date.
provided
however
that
          On and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or any portion thereof called for redemption (unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price and accrued interest). On or before the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and (unless the redemption date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date on the Notes to be redeemed on such date. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. Additionally, the Company may at any time repurchase Notes in the open market and may hold or surrender such Notes to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
4
     8. .
Redemption for Tax Reasons
          If, as a result of any change in, or amendment to, the laws (or any regulations or rulings promulgated under the laws) of the United States (or any taxing authority in the United States), or any change in, or amendments to, an official position regarding the application or interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, which change or amendment is announced or becomes effective on or after May 19, 2011 the Company becomes or, based upon a written opinion of independent counsel selected by the Company, will become obligated to pay additional amounts as described below with respect to the Notes, then the Company may at any time at its option redeem, in whole, but not in part, the Notes on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest on those Notes to, but not including, the date fixed for redemption.
     9. .
Payment of Additional Amounts
          The Company will, subject to the exceptions and limitations set forth below, pay as additional interest on the Notes such additional amounts as are necessary in order that the net payment by the Company or the Paying Agent of the principal of and interest on the Notes to a Holder who is not a United States person (as defined below), after withholding or deduction for any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by the United States or a taxing authority in the United States will not be less than the amount provided in the Notes to be then due and payable; provided, however, that the foregoing obligation to pay additional amounts shall not apply:
 
5
          The Notes are subject in all cases to any tax, fiscal or other law or regulation or administrative or judicial interpretation applicable to the Notes. Except as specifically provided under this section "Payments of Additional Amounts," the Company will not be required to make any payment for
 
6
any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by any government or a political subdivision or taxing authority of or in any government or political subdivision.
          As used under this section "Payments of Additional Amounts" and under Section 8 "Redemption for Tax Reasons", the term "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia and any political subdivision thereof), and the term "United States person" means any individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state of the United States or the District of Columbia (other than a partnership that is not treated as a United States person under any applicable Treasury regulations), or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source.
     10. .
Defaults and Remedies
          If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes and all accrued interest thereon may be declared due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture. Any payment by the Company in respect of the Notes so made in U.S. dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under the Indenture.
     11. .
Supplemental Indentures
          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the Company and the Trustee to enter into supplemental indentures to the Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Debt Securities of each series under the Indenture with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of all Series to be affected thereby (acting as one class).
     12. .
Consent and Waiver
          The Indenture also permits the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Debt Securities at the time Outstanding of each series on behalf of the Holders of all Debt Securities of such series to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults and their consequences with respect to such series under the Indenture. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note or such other Note. The Indenture also permits the release of a Guarantor from its obligations under its Guarantee in certain circumstances without the consent of the Holders of the Debt Securities.
     13. .
Obligations of the Company and the Guarantors
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal and any premium of and any interest on this Note at the place, rate and respective times and in the coin or currency prescribed herein and in the Indenture.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions therein set forth, including the deposit of certain trust funds in trust, at the Company's option, either (i) the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by, and the obligations under, the Debt Securities of any series and to have satisfied all the obligations (with certain exceptions) under the Indenture relating to the Debt Securities and the Guarantees
 
7
of such series or (ii) the Company and the Guarantors shall cease to be under any obligation to comply with any term, provision or condition of certain restrictive covenants or provisions set forth in any additions or changes to or deletions from covenants and Events of Default with respect to the Debt Securities and the Guarantees of such series.
     14. .
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
          The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons, in a minimum denomination of 50,000 and integral multiples of 1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder shall register the transfer of or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Company may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay certain transfer taxes or similar governmental charges payable in connection therewith as permitted by the Indenture.
     15. .
Persons Deemed Owners
          Subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     16. .
Defined Terms
          Unless otherwise defined herein, all terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
     17. .
Governing Law
          THIS NOTE SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     18. .
Authentication
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been manually executed by or on behalf of the Trustee under the Indenture, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
     19. .
Copies
          The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to Time Warner Cable Inc., 60 Columbus Circle, New York, NY 10023, Attention of Investor Relations.
 
8
     The following exchanges or redemptions of a part of this Global Security have been made:
 
9
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                     
                     
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Note)

Exhibit 5.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. 60 Columbus Circle New York, NY 10023
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          We have acted as special counsel to Time Warner Cable Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), TW NY Cable Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation ("TW NY"), and Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("TWE" and, together with TW NY, the "Guarantors"), in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-173760) (the "Registration Statement"), which became effective on April 28, 2011. You have asked us to furnish our opinion as to the legality of 625,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5 /% Notes due 2031 (the "Notes"), including the guarantees endorsed thereon (the "Guarantees" and, together with the Notes, the "Securities"), which are registered under the Registration Statement and which are being sold today pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of May 19, 2011 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), by and among the representatives named on Schedule I thereto, as representatives of the underwriters named on Schedule II thereto (the "Underwriters"), the Company and the Guarantors.
3
4
          The Notes and the related Guarantees, are to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007 (the "Base Indenture"), by and among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly known as The Bank of New York), as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the first supplemental indenture, dated as of April 9, 2007 (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee and
 
Time Warner Cable Inc.
pursuant to resolutions adopted by the Offering Committee of the Company on May 19, 2011, as authorized by the Company's Board of Directors.
          In connection with the furnishing of this opinion, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the following documents:
          1. the Registration Statement;
          2. the preliminary prospectus supplement dated May 19, 2011;
          3. the pricing term sheet dated May 19, 2011 set forth on Schedule III to the Underwriting Agreement;
          4. the final prospectus supplement dated May 19, 2011 (the "Final Prospectus");
          5. the Underwriting Agreement;
          6. the Indenture; and
          7. the form of Notes to be issued on the date of this letter (including the Guarantees.
          In addition, we have examined (i) such corporate or partnership records of the Company, TWE and TW NY that we have considered appropriate, including a copy of the second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and by-laws, as amended of the Company, the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as amended, of TW NY and the certificate of limited partnership, as amended or restated, and partnership agreement, as amended or restated, of TWE, each certified by the Company and each such Guarantor as in effect on the date of this letter, (ii) the organizational documents of the general partners of TWE and their direct or indirect general partners or managing or sole members (collectively, the "TWE General Partners"), (iii) copies of resolutions of the board of directors of the Company, the sole director of TW NY and the TWE General Partners relating to the issuance of the Notes, certified by the Company and such Guarantors, and (iv) such other certificates, agreements and documents as we deemed relevant and necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below.
          We have also relied upon oral and written statements of officers and representatives of the Company, the representations and warranties of the Company made in the Underwriting Agreement as to factual matters and upon certificates of public officials and the officers of the Company.
          In our examination of the documents referred to above, we have assumed, without independent investigation, the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of
 
Time Warner Cable Inc.
all individuals who have executed any of the documents reviewed by us, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to the originals of all documents submitted to us as certified, photostatic, reproduced or conformed copies of valid existing agreements or other documents, the authenticity of all such latter documents and that the statements regarding matters of fact in the certificates, records, agreements, instruments and documents that we have examined are accurate and complete.
          Based upon the above, and subject to the stated assumptions, exceptions and qualifications, we are of the opinion that:
          1. The Notes, when duly authenticated by the Trustee, and duly issued and delivered by the Company against payment as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except that the enforceability of the Notes may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
          2. When the Notes are duly issued and delivered by the Company against payment as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, the Guarantee of each Guarantor will be a valid and legally binding obligation of each such Guarantor, enforceable against each of the Guarantors in accordance with their terms, except that enforceability of the Guarantees may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
          As of the date of the opinions expressed above, a judgment for money in an action based on a Security denominated in a foreign currency or currency unit in a Federal or state court in the United States ordinarily would be enforced in the United States only in United States dollars. The date used to determine the rate of conversion of the foreign currency or currency unit in which a particular Security is denominated into United States dollars will depend on various factors, including which court renders the judgment. A state court in the State of New York rendering a judgment on such Security would be required under Section 27 of the New York Judiciary Law to render such judgment in the foreign currency in which the Security is denominated, and such judgment would be converted into United States dollars at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of entry of the judgment. A Federal court sitting in New York with diversity jurisdiction over a dispute arising in connection with the Securities would apply the foregoing New York law.
          The opinions expressed above are limited to the laws of the State of New York, the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Revised Uniform Limited Partnership
 
Time Warner Cable Inc.
Act of the State of Delaware, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act and the federal laws of the United States of America. Our opinions are rendered only with respect to the laws, and the rules, regulations and orders under those laws, that are currently in effect.
          We hereby consent to use of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the use of our name under the heading "Legal Matters" in the base prospectus included in the Registration Statement and in the Final Prospectus. In giving this consent, we do not hereby admit that we come within the category of persons whose consent is required by the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.


