FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20111207155836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On December 1, 2011, Time Warner Entertainment Company, L.P. (TWE), a subsidiary of Time Warner Cable Inc. (the Company), renewed its employment agreement with Carl U.J. Rossetti, Executive Vice President of the Company and President of Time Warner Cable Ventures, which extends the term of Mr. Rossettis employment through December 31, 2014 on the same terms as the employment agreement between TWE and Mr. Rossetti dated June 1, 2000, as amended (the Rossetti Employment Agreement).  Pursuant to the terms of the Rossetti Employment Agreement, the failure by either TWE or Mr. Rossetti to extend the term of the Rossetti Employment Agreement on the same terms and conditions for an additional year would have triggered the payment of severance benefits to Mr. Rossetti.
On December 2, 2011, TWE renewed its employment agreement with Marc Lawrence-Apfelbaum, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, which extends the term of Mr. Lawrence-Apfelbaums employment through December 31, 2014 on the same terms as the employment agreement between TWE and Mr. Lawrence-Apfelbaum dated June 1, 2000, as amended (the Lawrence-Apfelbaum Employment Agreement).  Pursuant to the terms of the Lawrence-Apfelbaum Employment Agreement, the failure by either TWE or Mr. Lawrence-Apfelbaum to extend the term of the Lawrence-Apfelbaum Employment Agreement on the same terms and conditions for an additional year would have triggered the payment of severance benefits to Mr. Lawrence-Apfelbaum.
On December 6, 2011, TWE renewed its employment agreement with Michael LaJoie, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of the Company, which extends the term of Mr. LaJoiess employment through December 31, 2014 on the same terms as the employment agreement between TWE and Mr. LaJoie dated June 1, 2000, as amended.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  December 7, 2011


