FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20110728070729.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
          On July 28, 2011, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  July 28, 2011 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2011.
NEW YORK, NY, July 28, 2011 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "Time Warner Cable continued to perform well in the second quarter, driven by very strong results in business services and higher residential ARPU. We also continued to generate strong free cash flow while still investing in our core business, allowing us to return more than $1 billion to our shareholders."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
for the second quarter of 2011 increased 4.4% from the second quarter of 2010 to $4.9 billion. Residential services revenues grew 2.5% year-over-year to $4.3 billion, business services revenues increased 34.7% to $361 million, advertising revenues grew 4.2% to $225 million and other revenues increased 5.5% to $58 million.
Revenues
Residential services revenue growth was driven by increases in high-speed data and voice revenues. The growth in residential high-speed data revenues was the result of growth in high-speed data subscribers and increases in average revenue per subscriber (due to both price increases and a greater percentage of subscribers receiving higher-priced tiers of service). Residential voice revenues increased as a result of an increase in voice subscribers. Residential video revenues were essentially flat year-over-year as price increases and a greater percentage of subscribers receiving higher-priced tiers of service, as well as increased revenues from equipment rental and installation charges and DVR service were offset by a decline in video subscribers and revenues from transactional video-on-demand and premium channels. Business services revenue growth was due primarily to increases in voice and high-speed data subscribers, an increase in cell tower backhaul revenues and the closing of the NaviSite, Inc. acquisition on April 21, 2011, which contributed $26 million of revenue during the second quarter. Advertising revenue growth was primarily driven by a year-over-year increase in revenues from advertising inventory sold on behalf of other video distributors, partially offset by a decline in political advertising revenues.
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
rose 4.2% over the second quarter of 2010 to $1.8 billion. The increase was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by a 4.6% increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses grew primarily due to higher employee costs, video programming expenses and consulting and professional fees, partially offset by a decrease in voice costs. Employee costs were up 5.1% to $1.0 billion, primarily as a result of compensation increases and higher headcount in business services, including NaviSite. Business services employee costs increased 34.4%. Video programming expenses grew 4.1% to $1.1 billion due to contractual rate increases and increased retransmission consent expense offset, in part, by a decline in video subscribers. Voice costs were down 9.6% to $151 million due to a decrease in delivery costs per subscriber related to the in-sourcing of voice transport, switching and interconnection services, partially offset by an increase in subscribers.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
was up 15.8% over the second quarter of 2010 to $1.1 billion driven by higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower amortization expense.
Operating Income
 
 
 
 
for the first six months of 2011 totaled $2.2 billion, a 12.4% increase over the first six months of 2010, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower capital expenditures. were $1.4 billion in the first six months of 2011, a 7.4% decrease from the first six months of 2010, largely reflecting lower residential capital spending. This decline in residential capital spending was primarily attributable to lower spending on customer premise equipment and upgrades/rebuilds, partially offset by higher support capital and scalable infrastructure spending.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
 
 
 
was $420 million, or $1.25 per basic common share and $1.24 per diluted common share, for the second quarter of 2011 compared to $342 million, or $0.96 per basic and $0.95 per diluted common share, for the second quarter of 2010.
Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
 
 
Refer to Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for certain items affecting the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders.
for the first six months of 2011 increased 42.4% to $1.7 billion from $1.2 billion in the first six months of 2010, due mainly to higher cash provided by operating activities and lower capital expenditures. for the first six months of 2011 was $3.1 billion, a 14.4% increase from $2.7 billion in the first six months of 2010. This increase was driven by a change in working capital (primarily net income tax refunds related to bonus depreciation, partially offset by an increase in net interest payments) and higher Adjusted OIBDA.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
 
 
 
 
totaled $21.0 billion as of June 30, 2011 compared to $20.4 billion as of December 31, 2010, as the cash used for share repurchases, dividend payments and the acquisition of NaviSite was greater than Free Cash Flow.
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
 
 
RETURN OF CAPITAL
Time Warner Cable returned over $1 billion to shareholders during the quarter. Share repurchases during the second quarter of 2011 totaled $863 million, or 11.5 million shares of common stock. As of June 30, 2011, approximately $1.8 billion remained under the Company's share repurchase authorization. Time Warner Cable also paid regular dividends of $163 million during the second quarter of 2011.
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
 
 
Refer to the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's website at for definitions related to the Company's subscriber metrics.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow. Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) is among the largest providers of video, high-speed data and voice services in the United States, connecting more than 14 million customers to entertainment, information and each other. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers data, video and voice services to businesses of all sizes, cell tower backhaul services to wireless carriers and, through its NaviSite subsidiary, enterprise-class hosting, managed application, messaging and cloud services. Time Warner Cable Media, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , , , and .
www.timewarnercable.com
www.twcbc.com
www.navisite.com
www.twcmedia.com
Additional details on financial and subscriber metrics are included in the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Thursday, July 28, 2011. To listen to the call, visit
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
1.  ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY
     The following items affected the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010:
 
2. USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
       In discussing its performance, the Company may use certain measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These measures include OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which the Company defines as follows:
 
     Management uses OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the effects of (1) considerable amounts of noncash depreciation and amortization and (2) items not within the control of the Company's operations managers (such as net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax provision, other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net). Adjusted OIBDA further eliminates the effects of certain noncash items identified in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also allows management to evaluate performance including the effect of capital spending decisions. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures are also significant performance measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. Management believes that Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of the Company's liquidity after the payment of cash taxes, interest and other cash items, including its ability to reduce net debt, pay dividends, repurchase common stock and make strategic investments. In addition, all of these measures are commonly used by analysts, investors and others in evaluating the Company's performance and liquidity.
     These measures have inherent limitations. For example, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA do not reflect capital expenditures or the periodic costs of certain capitalized assets used in generating revenues. To compensate for such limitations, management evaluates performance through Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which reflect capital expenditure decisions, and net income attributable to TWC shareholders, which reflects the periodic costs of capitalized assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures do not reflect any of the items noted as exclusions in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. To compensate for these limitations, management evaluates performance through OIBDA and net income attributable to TWC shareholders, which do reflect such items. OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also fail to reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes and debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments and other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for these limitations by using other analytics such as a review of net income attributable to TWC shareholders. Free Cash Flow, a liquidity measure, does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such investments and acquisitions through other measures such as return on investment analyses.
     These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, the Company's Operating Income, net income attributable to TWC shareholders and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.


