FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20110428070821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
          On April 28, 2011, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2011. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 28, 2011
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2011.
NEW YORK, NY, April 28, 2011 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "This is an exciting time for Time Warner Cable. Our high-speed data product just crossed the 10 million subscriber threshold and is quickly becoming the anchor product in the eyes of consumers. At the same time, new technology is making it possible for us to provide an even better video experience to our customers. Nowhere is this more evident than in our iPad app, which we launched last month to overwhelmingly positive consumer reviews. As our first quarter performance demonstrates, we continue to generate solid results, invest to further improve the value of our services and return cash to our shareholders."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
for the first quarter of 2011 increased 5.0% from the first quarter of 2010 to $4.8 billion. Subscription revenues grew 4.6% year-over-year to $4.6 billion, driven by a 3.5% increase in residential subscription revenues and a 23.2% increase in commercial subscription revenues. Advertising revenues increased 13.9% to $197 million.
Revenues
Residential subscription revenue growth was driven by increases in high-speed data, voice and video revenues. The growth in residential high-speed data revenues was the result of growth in high-speed data subscribers and, to a lesser extent, increases in average revenues per subscriber (due to both price increases and improved subscriber mix). Residential voice revenues increased as a result of an increase in Digital Phone subscribers. The growth in residential video revenues was driven by increases in average revenues per subscriber (due to price increases, improved subscriber mix and increased DVR service revenues), partially offset by a year-over-year decline in video subscribers. Commercial subscription revenue growth was due primarily to an increase in cell tower backhaul revenues, increases in voice and high-speed data subscribers and higher Metro Ethernet revenues. Advertising revenue growth was driven by year-over-year increases in a wide range of categories, most significantly automotive and media, in addition to growth in revenues from advertising inventory sold on behalf of other video distributors.
 
 
 
rose 3.6% over the first quarter of 2010 to $1.7 billion. The increase was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by a 5.7% increase in operating expenses, primarily due to higher employee costs, video programming expenses and consulting and professional fees. Employee costs were up 5.9% to $1.0 billion (including commercial employee costs which increased 25.4%) and video programming expenses grew 2.6% to $1.1 billion. Employee costs increased primarily as a result of compensation increases and higher commercial headcount. Video programming costs increased due to contractual rate increases and incremental retransmission consent expense offset, in part, by a decline in video subscribers. Video programming costs for the first-quarter 2011 were reduced by approximately $18 million due to changes in cost estimates for programming services previously carried without a contract.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
was up 14.7% over the first quarter of 2010 to $975 million driven by higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower amortization expense.
Operating Income
 
 
for the first three months of 2011 totaled $1.1 billion, a 14.2% increase over the first three months of 2010, due to lower capital expenditures and higher Adjusted OIBDA. were $663 million in the first three months of 2011, a 9.9% decrease from the first three months of 2010, largely reflecting lower residential capital spending. The decline in residential capital spending was primarily attributable to lower spending on customer premise equipment and upgrades/rebuilds, partially offset by higher support capital spending.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
 
 
 
was $325 million, or $0.94 per basic common share and $0.93 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2011 compared to $214 million, or $0.60 per basic and diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2010.
Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
 
 
Refer to Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for certain items affecting the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders.
for the first three months of 2011 increased 42.2% to $927 million from $652 million in the first three months of 2010, due mainly to higher cash provided by operating activities and lower capital expenditures. for the first three months of 2011 was $1.6 billion, a 13.3% increase from $1.4 billion in the first three months of 2010. This increase was driven by a change in working capital (primarily a $270 million tax refund related to 2010 bonus depreciation) and higher Adjusted OIBDA.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
 
 
NM  Not meaningful.
  Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a definition of Free Cash Flow.
(a)
totaled $20.3 billion as of March 31, 2011 compared to $20.4 billion as of December 31, 2010, as Free Cash Flow was largely used for share repurchases and cash dividend payments.
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
 
 
RETURN OF CAPITAL
Share repurchases during the first quarter of 2011 totaled $829 million, or 12.0 million shares of common stock. As of March 31, 2010, approximately $2.7 billion remained under the Company's share repurchase authorization. Time Warner Cable also paid regular dividends of $167 million in the first quarter of 2011.
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
In the first quarter, subscriber net additions were 189,000 and subscriber net additions were 84,000, while subscriber net declines were 65,000, resulting in an increase in of 208,000 for the quarter. subscribers increased by 83,000 in the first quarter, and and subscribers totaled 8.6 million, or 59.5% of total customer relationships as of March 31, 2011.
high-speed data
Digital Phone
video
Primary Service Units ("PSUs")
Triple play
double
triple play
 
 
Refer to the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's website at for definitions related to the Company's subscriber metrics.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow. Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) is among the largest providers of video, high-speed data and phone services in the United States, connecting more than 14 million customers to entertainment, information and each other. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers data, video, and phone services to businesses of all sizes, cell tower backhaul services to wireless carriers, and through its NaviSite subsidiary, enterprise-class hosting, managed application, messaging and cloud services. Time Warner Cable Media, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , , , and .
About Time Warner Cable
www.timewarnercable.com
www.twcbc.com
www.navisite.com
www.twcmedia.com
Additional details on financial and subscriber metrics are included in the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Thursday, April 28, 2011. To listen to the call, visit
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
.
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
1.   ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY
     The following items affected the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
2.  USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
     In discussing its performance, the Company may use certain measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These measures include OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which the Company defines as follows:
 
     Management uses OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the effects of (1) considerable amounts of noncash depreciation and amortization and (2) items not within the control of the Company's operations managers (such as net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax provision, other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net). Adjusted OIBDA further eliminates the effects of certain noncash items identified in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also allows management to evaluate performance including the effect of capital spending decisions. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures are also significant performance measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. Management believes that Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of the Company's liquidity after the payment of cash taxes, interest and other cash items, including its ability to reduce net debt, pay dividends, repurchase common stock and make strategic investments. In addition, all of these measures are commonly used by analysts, investors and others in evaluating the Company's performance and liquidity.
     These measures have inherent limitations. For example, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA do not reflect capital expenditures or the periodic costs of certain capitalized assets used in generating revenues. To compensate for such limitations, management evaluates performance through Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which reflect capital expenditure decisions, and net income attributable to TWC shareholders, which reflects the periodic costs of capitalized assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures do not reflect any of the items noted as exclusions in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. To compensate for these limitations, management evaluates performance through OIBDA and net income attributable to TWC shareholders, which do reflect such items. OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also fail to reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes and debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments and other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for these limitations by using other analytics such as a review of net income attributable to TWC shareholders. Free Cash Flow, a liquidity measure, does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such investments and acquisitions through other measures such as return on investment analyses.
     These measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, the Company's Operating Income, net income attributable to TWC shareholders and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.


