FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20110127071723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
               Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
               Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
               Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
               Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
          On January 27, 2011, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its full year and fourth quarter ended December 31, 2010. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:    January 27, 2011
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010.
NEW YORK, NY, January 27, 2011 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "We made great strides financially and operationally in 2010. We achieved record free cash flow and continued to deliver on our shareholder-oriented capital allocation strategy. At the same time, we enhanced our products and services, increased the sophistication of our marketing and accelerated the growth of our commercial business. We look forward to the challenges and opportunities in the new year as we strive to deliver great service and quality products to our customers."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
for the fourth quarter of 2010 increased 5.9% from the fourth quarter of 2009 to $4.8 billion. Subscription revenues grew 4.6% year-over-year to $4.5 billion, driven by a 3.5% increase in residential subscription revenues and a 23.0% increase in commercial subscription revenues. Advertising revenues increased 33.8% to $269 million.
Revenues
Full-year revenues increased 5.6% over 2009 to $18.9 billion. Subscription revenues grew 4.8% to $18.0 billion, with residential subscription revenues increasing 3.9% and commercial subscription revenues growing 21.1%. Advertising revenues increased 25.5% to $881 million.
In both the fourth quarter and full year of 2010, residential subscription revenue growth was driven by increases in high-speed data, video and voice revenues. The growth in residential high-speed data revenues was the result of growth in high-speed data subscribers and, to a lesser extent, increases in average revenues per subscriber (due to both price increases and improved subscriber mix). Residential video revenues increased as a result of increases in average revenues per subscriber (due to price increases, improved subscriber mix and increased DVR service revenues), partially offset by a decline in video subscribers. The growth in residential voice revenues was driven by an increase in Digital Phone subscribers, partially offset by
 
a decrease in average monthly revenues per Digital Phone subscriber. Commercial subscription revenue growth was due primarily to an increase in cell tower backhaul revenues, increases in Business Class Phone and high-speed data subscribers and higher Metro Ethernet revenues. Advertising revenue growth for both the quarter and full year was driven by increases in a wide range of categories, most significantly political, automotive and media. Political advertising was $42 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 and $74 million in the full-year 2010 compared to $8 million and $20 million in the comparable periods of 2009.
 
 
Fourth-quarter 2010 rose 1.6% over the fourth quarter of 2009 to $1.7 billion driven by revenue growth, partially offset by an 8.5% increase in operating expenses. In particular, video programming costs grew 7.2% to $1.1 billion, employee costs were up 3.9% to $970 million, marketing expense grew 7.1% to $166 million, bad debt expense increased $9 million to $20 million and voice costs were up 5.5% to $172 million.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
Full-year 2010 Adjusted OIBDA rose 5.9% over full-year 2009 to $6.9 billion. The year-over-year increase in Adjusted OIBDA was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by a 5.4% increase in operating expenses. For the full year, video programming costs grew 5.4% to $4.2 billion, employee costs were up 3.1% to $3.9 billion, marketing expense grew 11.7% to $629 million and voice costs were up 5.7% to $669 million, while bad debt expense declined by 20.3% to $114 million.
In both the fourth-quarter and full-year 2010, video programming costs increased due to contractual rate increases and incremental retransmission consent expense offset, in part, by a decline in video subscribers. Video programming costs for the full-year 2010 were reduced by approximately $25 million and video programming costs for the fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 were reduced by $10 million and $5 million, respectively, due to changes in cost estimates for programming services carried without a contract, reversals of previously accrued programming audit reserves and certain contract settlements. Employee costs increased primarily as a result of higher headcount and compensation and fourth-quarter executive severance costs offset, in part, by a decrease in pension expense. Voice costs increased due to subscriber growth. The fourth-quarter increase in bad debt expense was primarily related to a favorable adjustment recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to reflect the quality of residential receivables as of the end of 2009. The full-year 2010 decrease in bad debt expense reflects improvements in collection efforts, partially offset by the favorable adjustment in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Fourth-quarter 2010 was up 11.6% over the fourth quarter of 2009 to $994 million driven by higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower amortization and depreciation expense. Full-year 2010 Operating Income increased 11.2% over the full-year 2009 to $3.7 billion due to higher Adjusted OIBDA and a decrease in amortization expense, offset partly by an increase in depreciation expense.
Operating Income
 
 
 
Fourth-quarter 2010 was $392 million, or $1.10 per basic common share and $1.09 per diluted common share, compared to $322 million, or $0.91 per basic and diluted common share, in the prior year quarter. Full-year 2010 Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders was $1.3 billion, or $3.67 per basic common share and $3.64 per diluted common share, an increase from $1.1 billion, or $3.07 per basic common share and $3.05 per diluted common share, in the prior year.
Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
 
 
Refer to Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for certain items affecting the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders.
for the full year of 2010 totaled $3.9 billion, a 21.0% increase over the full year of 2009, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower capital expenditures. were $2.9 billion in 2010, a 9.3% decrease from 2009, largely reflecting lower residential capital spending, partly offset by higher commercial capital spending. The decline in residential capital spending was primarily attributable to lower spending on customer premise equipment, support capital and scalable infrastructure. The increase in commercial capital spending was primarily related to higher spending on line extensions, customer premise equipment and scalable infrastructure.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
 
 
 
for the full year 2010 increased 19.1% to $2.3 billion from $1.9 billion in 2009, due to an increase in Adjusted OIBDA and decreases in capital expenditures, pension plan contributions and working capital requirements, offset partly by higher cash tax and interest payments. for the full-year 2010 was $5.2 billion, a 0.8% increase from the full year 2009. This increase was related primarily to higher Adjusted OIBDA and lower pension plan contributions and working capital requirements, largely offset by increases in cash tax and interest payments.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
 
 
totaled $20.4 billion as of December 31, 2010, down $1.2 billion since December 31, 2009. The decline in net debt and preferred equity was driven by Free Cash Flow and the proceeds from the exercise of stock options offset, in part, by cash dividend payments, share repurchases and the increase in the fair value of debt subject to interest rate swap contracts (which was equal to the increase in the fair value of the underlying swaps that are separately recorded as assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet).
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
 
 
RETURN OF CAPITAL
During the fourth quarter and full year of 2010, Time Warner Cable repurchased 8.0 million shares of its common stock for $515 million, including approximately 0.6 million shares repurchased for $43 million that settled in January 2011. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $3.5 billion remained under the Company's share repurchase authorization. Time Warner Cable also paid regular dividends of $144 million in the fourth quarter and $576 million for the full year of 2010.
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
In the fourth quarter, subscriber net additions were 94,000 and subscriber net additions were 72,000, while subscriber net declines were 141,000, resulting in net additions of 25,000 for the quarter and 344,000 for the full-year. net additions were 72,000 in the fourth quarter, and totaled 8.5 million, or 59.0% of total customer relationships, as of December 31, 2010.
high-speed data
Digital Phone
video
Primary Service Unit ("PSU")
Triple play subscriber
double and triple play subscribers
 
 
Refer to the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's website at for definitions related to the Company's subscriber metrics.
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including Operating Income (Loss) before Depreciation and Amortization, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow. Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five geographic areas  New York State (including New York City), the Carolinas, Ohio, Southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. Time Warner Cable serves more than 14 million customers who subscribe to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers a suite of phone, Internet, Ethernet and cable television services to businesses of all sizes. Time Warner Cable Media, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national,
 
regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions that are targeted and affordable. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , and .
www.timewarnercable.com
www.twcbc.com
www.twcmedia.com
Additional details on financial and subscriber metrics are included in the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Thursday, January 27, 2011. To listen to the call, visit
www.timewarnercable.com/investors
.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year financial information to conform to the current period presentation.
 
     The following items affected the comparability of net income attributable to TWC shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
     In discussing its performance, the Company may use certain measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These measures include OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which the Company defines as follows:
     Management uses OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the effects of (1) considerable amounts of noncash depreciation and amortization and (2) items not within the control of the Company's operations managers (such as net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax benefit (provision), other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net). Adjusted OIBDA further eliminates the effects of certain noncash items identified in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also allows management to evaluate performance including the effect of capital spending decisions. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures are also significant performance measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. Management believes that Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of the Company's liquidity after the payment of cash taxes, interest and other cash items, including its ability to reduce net debt, pay dividends, repurchase common stock and make strategic investments. In addition, all of these measures are commonly used by analysts, investors and others in evaluating the Company's performance and liquidity.
     These measures have inherent limitations. For example, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA do not reflect capital expenditures or the periodic costs of certain capitalized assets used in generating revenues. To compensate for such limitations, management evaluates performance through Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which reflect capital expenditure decisions, and net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders, which reflects the periodic costs of capitalized assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures do not reflect any of the items noted as exclusions in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. To compensate for these limitations, management evaluates performance through OIBDA and net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders, which do reflect such items. OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures also fail to reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes and debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments and other non-operational income or expense. Management compensates for these limitations by using other analytics such as a review of net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders. Free Cash Flow, a liquidity measure, does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such investments and acquisitions through other measures such as return on investment analyses.
     These measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, the Company's Operating Income (Loss), net income (loss) attributable to TWC shareholders and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.


