FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20120426070439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
   The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
   On April 26, 2012, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:   April 26, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2012.
NEW YORK, NY, April 26, 2012 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "Time Warner Cable's first quarter results reflect continued strong performance, and residential Internet and business services were standouts. Now that we have closed the Insight acquisition, our increased cash flow is available to fuel further investments in the business and capital returns to our shareholders."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
for the first quarter of 2012 increased 6.4% from the first quarter of 2011 to $5.1 billion. Residential services revenues increased 4.1% year-over-year to $4.4 billion, business services revenues grew 37.5% to $429 million, while advertising revenues increased 7.1% to $211 million and other revenues grew 3.4% to $61 million.
Revenues
 
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2012 benefited from the acquisitions of Insight Communications Company, Inc. (on February 29, 2012), the NewWave Communications cable systems (during the fourth quarter of 2011) and NaviSite, Inc. (during the second quarter of 2011), as detailed below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excluding the impacts from acquisitions, residential services revenue growth was primarily driven by an increase in high-speed data revenues, partially offset by a slight decline in video revenues.
 
 
 
Excluding the impacts from acquisitions, business services revenue growth was due primarily to increases in high-speed data and voice subscribers and growth in cell tower backhaul and Metro Ethernet revenues.
Excluding the impacts from acquisitions, advertising revenues increased primarily as a result of a year-over-year increase in revenues from advertising inventory sold on behalf of other video distributors.
for the first quarter of 2012 increased 8.2% from the first quarter of 2011 to $1.9 billion. The increase was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by a 5.3% increase in operating expenses.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
Operating expenses grew primarily due to higher employee costs, video programming expenses and other operating costs, partially offset by a decrease in voice costs. Employee costs were up 10.1% to $1.1 billion, primarily as a result of increased headcount (which increased by approximately 3,500 employees, including Insight, NaviSite and NewWave employees) and higher compensation costs per employee. Pension and equity-based compensation costs increased $15 million and $12 million, respectively. Business services employee costs increased 42.7% year-over-year. Video programming expenses grew 4.6% to $1.1 billion due to contractual rate increases and the acquisition of Insight offset, in part, by an organic decline in video subscribers. For the first quarter of 2011, video programming costs were reduced by approximately $18 million as a result of changes in cost estimates for programming services carried without a contract. Average monthly video programming costs per video subscriber increased 5.9% year-over-year to $30.85 for the first quarter of 2012. Voice costs were down 10.8% to $149 million due to a decrease in delivery costs per subscriber related to the in-sourcing of voice transport, switching and interconnection services, partially offset by an organic increase in subscribers.
for the first quarter of 2012 increased 6.9% from the first quarter of 2011 to $1.0 billion.Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements details certain items affecting the comparability of TWC's results for the first quarters of 2012 and 2011. Excluding these items, first-quarter 2012 Operating Income would have grown 10.8% to $1.1 billion, driven by higher Adjusted OIBDA, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expenses primarily as a result of the Company's recent acquisitions (largely Insight).
Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
for the first three months of 2012 totaled $1.2 billion, a 9.3% increase over the first three months of 2011, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA, partially offset by higher capital expenditures. were $706 million for the first three months of 2012, a 6.5% increase over the first three months of 2011, largely reflecting higher support capital spending in residential services and other.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
 
 
 
 
 
 
was $382 million, or $1.21 per basic common share and $1.20 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2012 compared to $325 million, or $0.94 per basic common share and $0.93 per diluted common share, for the first quarter of 2011. Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements details certain items affecting the comparability of TWC's net income attributable to TWC shareholders for the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, the most significant of which for 2012 was a negative $0.09 per diluted common share impact from merger-related and restructuring costs and, for 2011, was a negative $0.06 per diluted common share net impact from expired Time Warner Inc. stock options.
Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
and , which exclude the items detailed in Note 1, were $414 million and $1.30, respectively, for the first quarter of 2012 compared to $352 million and $1.01, respectively, for the first quarter of 2011. These year-over-year increases were primarily due to higher Operating Income and lower other expense, net (reflecting a decline in losses from Clearwire Communications LLC as the Company's investment was reduced to $0 during the third quarter of 2011), partially offset by higher interest expense, net, and income tax provision. Additionally, Adjusted Diluted EPS for the first quarter of 2012 benefited from lower average common shares outstanding as a result of share repurchases under the Company's stock repurchase program.
Adjusted Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
Adjusted Diluted EPS
 
 
 
 
 
 
for the first three months of 2012 decreased 22.5% to $718 million from $927 million in the first three months of 2011, due mainly to lower cash provided by operating activities and an increase in capital expenditures. for the first three months of 2012 was $1.4 billion, an 11.9% decrease from $1.6 billion in the first three months of 2011. This decrease was driven by a change in working capital (primarily due to a significant income tax refund received in the first quarter of 2011 and an increase in net interest payments), partially offset by higher Adjusted OIBDA.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
totaled $24.5 billion as of March 31, 2012 compared to $21.6 billion as of December 31, 2011, as the cash used for the acquisition of Insight, share repurchases and the dividend payment was greater than Free Cash Flow.
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
RETURN OF CAPITAL
Time Warner Cable returned $532 million to shareholders during the quarter. Share repurchases during the first quarter of 2012 totaled $353 million or 4.8 million shares of common stock. As of March 31, 2012, $3.7 billion remained under the Company's share repurchase authorization. Time Warner Cable also paid a regular dividend of $0.56 per share of common stock, $179 million in aggregate, during the first quarter of 2012.
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
 
 
 
 
 
Refer to the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's website at for definitions related to the Company's subscriber metrics.
www.twc.com/investors
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures, Adjusted net income attributable to TWC shareholders, Adjusted Diluted EPS and Free Cash Flow. Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) is among the largest providers of video, high-speed data and voice services in the United States, connecting more than 15 million customers to entertainment, information and each other. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers data, video and voice services to businesses of all sizes, cell tower backhaul services to wireless carriers and, through its NaviSite subsidiary, managed and outsourced information technology solutions and cloud services. Time Warner Cable Media, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , , , and .
www.twc.com
www.twcbc.com
www.navisite.com
www.twcmedia.com
Additional details on financial and subscriber metrics are included in the Trending Schedules and Presentation Slides posted on the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.twc.com/investors
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Thursday, April 26, 2012. To listen to the call, visit .
www.twc.com/investors
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
The following items affected the comparability of Time Warner Cable Inc.'s ("TWC" or the "Company") results for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011:
 
 
 
 
In discussing its performance, the Company may use certain measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These measures include OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures, Adjusted net income attributable to TWC shareholders, Adjusted Diluted EPS and Free Cash Flow, which the Company defines as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Management uses OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the effects of (1) considerable amounts of noncash depreciation and amortization and (2) items not within the control of the Company's operations managers (such as net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax provision, other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net). Adjusted OIBDA further eliminates the effects of certain noncash items identified in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures also allows management to evaluate performance including the effect of capital spending decisions. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures are also significant performance measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. Adjusted net income attributable to TWC shareholders and Adjusted Diluted EPS are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company as these measures eliminate amounts that do not reflect the fundamental performance of the Company. The Company utilizes Adjusted Diluted EPS, among other measures, to evaluate its performance both on an absolute basis and relative to its peers and the broader market. Management believes that Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of the Company's ability to generate cash, reduce net debt, pay dividends, repurchase common stock and make
 
 
strategic investments, after the payment of cash taxes, interest and other cash items. In addition, all of these measures are commonly used by analysts, investors and others in evaluating the Company's performance and liquidity.
These measures have inherent limitations. For example, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA do not reflect capital expenditures or the periodic costs of certain capitalized assets used in generating revenues. To compensate for such limitations, management evaluates performance through Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which reflect capital expenditure decisions, and net income attributable to TWC shareholders, which reflects the periodic costs of capitalized assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures do not reflect any of the items noted as exclusions in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. To compensate for these limitations, management evaluates performance through OIBDA and net income attributable to TWC shareholders, which do reflect such items. OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures also fail to reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes and debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments and other non-operational income or expense. Additionally, Adjusted net income attributable to TWC shareholders and Adjusted Diluted EPS do not reflect certain charges that affect the operating results of the Company and they involve judgment as to whether items affect fundamental operating performance. Management compensates for these limitations by using other analytics such as a review of net income attributable to TWC shareholders. Free Cash Flow, a liquidity measure, does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such investments and acquisitions through other measures such as return on investment analyses.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, the Company's Operating Income, net income attributable to TWC shareholders and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 


