FILE:TWC/TWC-8K-20121105071540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On November 5, 2012, Time Warner Cable Inc. ("Time Warner Cable") issued a press release setting forth its financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012. A copy of Time Warner Cable's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Time Warner Cable does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to be incorporated by reference into filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:   November 5, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2012.
NEW YORK, NY, November 5, 2012 
Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt said: "Our third-quarter results were good, with most trends similar to the preceding quarter. Our operating results were driven by continued strong performance in residential high-speed data and business services, an acceleration in high-margin political advertising and the contributions from our Insight systems. During the quarter, we remained focused on investing in growing our business, while at the same time ramping capital returns to our shareholders."
Britt continued, "Our sympathies go out to those suffering in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, and we are thankful for the efforts of our employees who worked in many ways to help keep our customers informed and connected during the storm, as well as those who have been dealing with the many after-effects."
FINANCIAL RESULTS
for the third quarter of 2012 increased 9.2% from the third quarter of 2011 to $5.4 billion. Residential services revenues increased 7.0% to $4.5 billion and business services revenues grew 27.4% to $493 million, while advertising revenues increased 22.2% to $264 million.
Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
Revenues for the third quarter of 2012 benefited from acquisitions, as detailed below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excluding the impact from acquisitions:
Residential services revenues
Residential services revenue growth was primarily driven by an increase in high-speed data revenues, partially offset by declines in video and voice revenues.
 
Business services revenues
Business services revenue growth was primarily due to increases in high-speed data and voice subscribers and growth in Metro Ethernet revenues.
Advertising revenues
Advertising revenues increased primarily as a result of increases in political advertising and revenues from advertising inventory sold on behalf of other video distributors.
for the third quarter of 2012 increased 9.2% from the third quarter of 2011 to $1.9 billion. The increase was driven by revenue growth, partially offset by a 9.2% increase in operating expenses.
Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted OIBDA")
Operating expenses grew primarily due to higher employee costs, video programming expenses, other operating costs and voice costs. Employee costs were up 10.0% to $1.1 billion, due to higher headcount (primarily driven by acquisitions and organic growth in business services, partially offset by an organic decline in residential services) and higher compensation costs per employee. Pension costs increased $15 million. Video programming expenses grew 8.2% to $1.2 billion due to an increase in average monthly video programming costs per video subscriber and a net increase in video subscribers (primarily due to the acquisition of Insight offset, in part, by an organic decline in video subscribers). Average monthly video programming costs per video subscriber increased 6.1% year-over-year to $31.45 for the third quarter of 2012, primarily driven by contractual rate increases, partially offset by a decline in transactional video-on-demand costs. For the third quarter of 2012 and 2011, video programming costs were reduced by approximately $5 million and $10 million, respectively, due to net changes in cost estimates for programming services carried without a contract, changes in programming audit reserves and certain contract settlements. Voice costs were up 11.0% to $151 million, primarily as a result of an increase in voice subscribers due to both organic growth and the Insight acquisition, partially offset by a decrease in delivery costs per subscriber related to the in-sourcing of voice transport, switching and interconnection services.
for the third quarter of 2012 increased 9.2% from the third quarter of 2011 to $1.1 billion, driven by higher Adjusted OIBDA, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expenses primarily as a result of the Company's recent acquisitions (largely Insight). The increase in depreciation expense was partially offset by certain assets acquired in the 2006 transactions with Adelphia Communications Corporation and Comcast Corporation that were fully depreciated as of July 31, 2012.
Operating Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for the first nine months of 2012 totaled $3.6 billion, an 8.9% increase over the first nine months of 2011, due to higher Adjusted OIBDA, partially offset by higher capital expenditures. were $2.2 billion for the first nine months of 2012, a 9.8% increase over the first nine months of 2011, largely reflecting higher spending in line extensions, support capital, customer premise equipment and scalable infrastructure.
Adjusted OIBDA less Capital Expenditures
Capital Expenditures
 
 
 
 
 
 
was $808 million, or $2.64 per basic common share and $2.60 per diluted common share, for the third quarter of 2012 compared to $356 million, or $1.09 per basic common share and $1.08 per diluted common share, for the third quarter of 2011. The growth in net income attributable to TWC shareholders resulted primarily from a change in other income (expense), net, and growth in Operating Income, partially offset by higher income tax provision (which included a net benefit from certain tax matters) and interest expense, net. The change in other income (expense), net, was primarily due to third-quarter 2012 investment-related gains (SpectrumCo, LLC and Clearwire Corporation) and a decline in losses from Clearwire Communications LLC as the Company's investment was reduced to $0 during the third quarter of 2011.
Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
and which exclude the investment-related gains (SpectrumCo and Clearwire) and certain other items affecting the comparability of TWC's results for the third quarters of 2012 and 2011 detailed in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, were $438 million and $1.41, respectively, for the third quarter of 2012 compared to $366 million and $1.11, respectively, for the third quarter of 2011. These increases were primarily due to higher Operating Income and a change in other income (expense), net, partially offset by higher income tax provision and interest expense, net. The change in other income (expense), net, was primarily due to a decline in losses from Clearwire Communications as the Company's investment was reduced to $0 during the third quarter of 2011. Additionally, Adjusted Diluted EPS for the third quarter of 2012 benefited from lower average common shares outstanding as a result of share repurchases under the Company's stock repurchase program.
Adjusted Net Income Attributable to TWC Shareholders
Adjusted Diluted EPS,
 
 
 
 
 
 
for the first nine months of 2012 decreased 16.6% to $2.0 billion from $2.4 billion in the first nine months of 2011, due mainly to lower cash provided by operating activities and an increase in capital expenditures. for the first nine months of 2012 was $4.1 billion, a 5.3% decrease from $4.3 billion in the first nine months of 2011. This decrease was driven by a significant income tax refund (received in the first quarter of 2011) and increases in income tax payments, net interest payments and pension plan contributions, partially offset by higher Adjusted OIBDA.
Free Cash Flow
Cash Provided by Operating Activities
 
 
 
 
 
NMNot meaningful.
 
totaled $23.5 billion as of September 30, 2012 compared to $21.6 billion as of December 31, 2011, as the cash used for the acquisition of Insight, share repurchases and dividend payments was greater than Free Cash Flow and the proceeds from the sale of SpectrumCo's advanced wireless spectrum licenses.
Net Debt and Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
RETURN OF CAPITAL
Time Warner Cable returned $673 million to shareholders during the quarter. Share repurchases during the third quarter of 2012 totaled $500 million or 5.7 million shares of common stock. As of September 30, 2012, $2.8 billion remained under the Company's share repurchase authorization. Time Warner Cable also paid a regular dividend of $0.56 per share of common stock, $173 million in aggregate, during the third quarter of 2012.
SUBSCRIBER METRICS
 
 
 
 
 
For definitions related to the Company's subscriber metrics, refer to the Trending Schedules posted on the Company's website at .
www.twc.com/investors
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company refers to certain financial measures that are not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), including OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures, Adjusted net income attributable to TWC shareholders, Adjusted Diluted EPS and Free Cash Flow.
 
Refer to Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company's use of non-GAAP financial measures.
About Time Warner Cable
Time Warner Cable Inc. (NYSE: TWC) is among the largest providers of video, high-speed data and voice services in the United States, connecting more than 15 million customers to entertainment, information and each other. Time Warner Cable Business Class offers data, video and voice services to businesses of all sizes, cell tower backhaul services to wireless carriers and, through its NaviSite subsidiary, managed and outsourced information technology solutions and cloud services. Time Warner Cable Media, the advertising arm of Time Warner Cable, offers national, regional and local companies innovative advertising solutions. More information about the services of Time Warner Cable is available at , , , and .
www.twc.com
www.twcbc.com
www.navisite.com
www.twcmedia.com
Additional details on financial and subscriber metrics are included in the Trending Schedules and Presentation Slides posted on the Company's Investor Relations website at .
www.twc.com/investors
Information on Conference Call
Time Warner Cable's earnings conference call can be heard live at 8:30 am ET on Monday, November 5, 2012. To listen to the call, visit .
www.twc.com/investors
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs, and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied by the statements herein due to changes in economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic and/or regulatory factors, and other factors affecting the operations of Time Warner Cable Inc. More detailed information about these factors may be found in filings by Time Warner Cable Inc. with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Time Warner Cable is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any such obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Contacts:
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
The following items affected the comparability of Time Warner Cable Inc.'s ("TWC" or the "Company") results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In discussing its performance, the Company may use certain measures that are not calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These measures include OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures, Adjusted net income attributable to TWC shareholders, Adjusted Diluted EPS and Free Cash Flow, which the Company defines as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Management uses OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA, among other measures, in evaluating the performance of the Company's business because they eliminate the effects of (i) considerable amounts of noncash depreciation and amortization and (ii) items not within the control of the Company's operations managers (such as net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, income tax provision, other income (expense), net, and interest expense, net). Adjusted OIBDA further eliminates the effects of certain noncash items identified in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures also allows management to evaluate performance including the effect of capital spending decisions. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures are also significant performance measures used in the Company's annual incentive compensation programs. Adjusted net income attributable to TWC shareholders and Adjusted Diluted EPS are considered important indicators of the operational strength of the Company as these measures eliminate amounts that do not reflect the fundamental performance of the Company. The Company utilizes Adjusted Diluted EPS, among other measures, to evaluate its performance both on an absolute basis and relative to its peers and the broader market. Management believes that Free Cash Flow is an important indicator of the Company's ability to generate cash, reduce net debt, pay dividends, repurchase common stock and make
 
 
strategic investments, after the payment of cash taxes, interest and other cash items. In addition, all of these measures are commonly used by analysts, investors and others in evaluating the Company's performance and liquidity.
These measures have inherent limitations. For example, OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA do not reflect capital expenditures or the periodic costs of certain capitalized assets used in generating revenues. To compensate for such limitations, management evaluates performance through Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures and Free Cash Flow, which reflect capital expenditure decisions, and net income attributable to TWC shareholders, which reflects the periodic costs of capitalized assets. Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures do not reflect any of the items noted as exclusions in the definition of Adjusted OIBDA above. To compensate for these limitations, management evaluates performance through OIBDA and net income attributable to TWC shareholders, which do reflect such items. OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures also fail to reflect the significant costs borne by the Company for income taxes and debt servicing costs, the share of OIBDA, Adjusted OIBDA and Adjusted OIBDA less capital expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests, the results of the Company's equity investments and other non-operational income or expense. Additionally, Adjusted net income attributable to TWC shareholders and Adjusted Diluted EPS do not reflect certain charges that affect the operating results of the Company and they involve judgment as to whether items affect fundamental operating performance. Management compensates for these limitations by using other analytics such as a review of net income attributable to TWC shareholders. Free Cash Flow, a liquidity measure, does not reflect payments made in connection with investments and acquisitions, which reduce liquidity. To compensate for this limitation, management evaluates such investments and acquisitions through other measures such as return on investment analyses.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, the Company's Operating Income, net income attributable to TWC shareholders and various cash flow measures (e.g., cash provided by operating activities), as well as other measures of financial performance and liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 


