FILE:S/S-8K-20031024170828.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) October 23, 2003 SPRINT CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Kansas 1-04721 48-0457967 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 6200 Sprint Parkway, Overland Park, Kansas 66251 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (913) 624-3000 (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) P. O. Box 7997, Shawnee Mission, Kansas 66207-0997 (Mailing address of principal executive offices)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits Exhibits 99. Press Release announcing 2003 third quarter results. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition Press Release. On October 23, 2003, the registrant ("Sprint") announced its 2003 third quarter results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99. 1
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. SPRINT CORPORATION Date: October 24, 2003 By: /s/ Michael T. Hyde Michael T. Hyde, Assistant Secretary 2
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page 99. Press Release announcing 2003 third quarter results. 3

Exhibit 99 Sprint Reports Third Quarter Results o Sprint reports strong positive cash flow, raises full-year forecast o FON Group operating performance exceeds expectations o PCS Group reports continued progress on profitability OVERLAND PARK, Kan. - Oct. 23, 2003: The Sprint FON Group (NYSE: FON) is comprised of Sprint's global markets division, local division and other businesses consisting primarily of wholesale distribution of telecommunications products. The Sprint PCS Group (NYSE:PCS) consists of Sprint's mobile wireless operations. Sprint today announced overall growth in revenues for the second consecutive quarter and strong operating performance in both the FON and PCS Groups. The FON Group reported stable sequential revenues and strong cash flow growth. The cash flow growth has allowed substantial debt reductions, leading to significantly lower net interest expense. The PCS Group doubled its operating income and added nearly 500,000 new customers, including 184,000 post-paid retail additions. "I'm pleased with Sprint's performance this quarter," said Gary Forsee, Sprint chairman and chief executive officer. "We are staying focused on executing our agenda of optimizing our wireline and wireless assets as a way of creating value to our two shareholder groups. Forsee added, "Under challenging market conditions the global markets division again reported stability in business voice revenues and continued to produce a more profitable product mix. The local division posted strong DSL growth and contribution to cash flow. In the quarter, Sprint extended its reach into local markets nationwide with the launch of Sprint Complete Sense - bundles of local, long-distance and wireless service. Products like Sprint Complete Sense highlight our company's transformation initiative to realign internal resources based on customer needs and preferences. This effort will enable Sprint to more effectively and efficiently use its portfolio of assets to create communications solutions." Also, in the quarter, the PCS Group continued to build on its data leadership, passing the five million customer mark for total data subscribers. PCS also executed an important strategic agreement with Qwest and finalized a revised agreement with Alamosa, its largest affiliate.
Third quarter consolidated net operating revenues were $6.7 billion, compared to $6.8 billion in the same period last year. Net loss for the third quarter was $498 million versus net income of $519 million for the same period last year. Net loss in the third quarter of 2003 includes a net loss from special items of $768 million, while the third quarter of last year includes a net gain from special items of $260 million and net income from a discontinued operation of $42 million. Operating loss was $438 million in the third quarter compared with operating income of $524 million a year ago. Operating income adjusted for special items* was up 15% to $785 million this quarter, compared with $681 million a year ago. Special items in the 2003 third quarter primarily consisted of a write-down in the fair value of Sprint's MMDS spectrum. Sprint's ongoing evaluation of business use for this asset resulted in a decision to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy. While alternative strategies continue to be evaluated, this decision required a revaluation of the fair value of the asset, resulting in a pre-tax, non-cash charge of $1.2 billion to the FON Group, reducing the carrying value of the asset to $300 million. Sprint continued to generate strong positive Free Cash Flow* in the quarter. Including a $400 million outflow for a pension contribution, total Free Cash Flow* was $436 million for the quarter, and year-to-date Free Cash Flow* stands at $1.75 billion. At Sept. 30, cash on hand was $2.6 billion as Sprint continues to be ahead of schedule on planned debt reduction. Net debt* was cut by $295 million in the quarter, and now stands at $17.1 billion. The FON Group reported a loss per share from continuing operations of 48 cents, for the third quarter, compared to earnings per share from continuing operations of 54 cents, in the third quarter of 2002. Before special items described in the FON discussion, FON Group EPS from continuing operations - adjusted was 38 cents versus 39 cents in the year-ago period. The PCS Group reported a loss of 7 cents per share for the third quarter, compared to a loss of 1 cent per share in the third quarter of 2002. Before special items described in the PCS discussion, the PCS Group reported a 7 cent loss from continuing operations - adjusted versus a 13 cent loss in the year-ago period. o In the quarter, FON Group revenues declined 7% from the same period a year ago. Revenues were up slightly compared to the second quarter. o Operating income adjusted for special items* decreased 8% compared to last year. Sequentially, this measure was up 3%. o Adjusted EBITDA* of $1.11 billion decreased 7% year over year and increased modestly on a sequential basis.
o The FON Group's Free Cash Flow* of $163 million decreased by $437 million compared to $600 million in the year-ago quarter. Year to date, Free Cash Flow* of $1.2 billion increased 34%. The 2003 FON Group's Free Cash Flow* reflects a $400 million pension contribution made in the third quarter. The difference between reported FON Group EPS and EPS from continuing operations - - adjusted, is the result of the following items: o Restructuring and asset impairments - a pre-tax charge of $1.22 billion was recorded in the third quarter of 2003 related to a revaluation of the fair value of Sprint's MMDS spectrum. A pre-tax charge of $348 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 along with an additional $2 million in the third quarter of 2003 primarily associated with the decision to wind down the Web hosting business. A pre-tax charge of $202 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2002 related to the termination of high-speed data services, as well as additional steps to reduce operating costs. The charge was partially offset by a $76 million adjustment to finalize the restructuring charge recorded in the 2001 fourth quarter. o Discontinued operation - reflects the operational activity and sale of Sprint's directory publishing business. o Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle - a pre-tax gain of $420 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 upon adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. o Executive separation agreements - a pre-tax charge of $17 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 for the FON Group's share of charges associated with executive separation agreements. o Shareholder litigation charge - a pre-tax charge of $24 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 for the FON Group's share of a shareholder litigation settlement. This charge was partially offset by $8 million of insurance proceeds received in the third quarter of 2003. o Premium on early retirement of debt - a pre-tax charge of $19 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 and $2 million in the third quarter of 2003 related to the early retirement of approximately $1.2 billion of long-term debt. o WorldCom bad debt - a pre-tax charge of $30 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2002 related to the expected loss on receivables due to WorldCom's bankruptcy declaration. o Tax benefit - a tax benefit of $235 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2002 related to capital losses that were previously not recognizable. o EarthLink impairment - a pre-tax charge of $241 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2002 due to declining market value. o Sale of customer contracts - a pre-tax gain of $40 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2002 related to the sale of customer contracts.
o Third quarter revenues of $1.53 billion declined 3.2% from $1.58 billion in the year-ago period. Revenues were flat, sequentially. o Adjusted EBITDA* was $729 million for the quarter compared to $771 million last year and $729 million in the second quarter. Year-to-date Adjusted EBITDA* of $2.18 billion is 5% below the comparable period in 2002. o Operating income adjusted for special items* was $459 million for the quarter compared to $480 million a year ago and $457 million in the second quarter. o DSL subscribership grew by 41,000 to end the quarter with 264,000 lines. o Total access lines declined at a 2.2% annual rate compared to 2.4% recorded in the second quarter. The local division continues to execute on key strategic initiatives including increasing penetration of bundled services and DSL, expanding Sprint-branded local service beyond existing local service territories, and converting circuit-based networks to next-generation packet technology. In the quarter, the division successfully converted two additional switch complexes to packet technology and plans to have converted over 150,000 lines by the end of the year. The division reported continued gains in bundled service customers as nearly 60% of new customers in the quarter signed up for a bundled plan. Consumer bundle penetration increased nearly 700 basis points to over 31% and business bundle penetration increased 400 basis points from the year-ago period to 26%. Total third quarter expenses decreased 5% compared to a year ago. The 2002 third quarter results include a WorldCom bad debt charge of $27 million. Lower depreciation expense in 2003, is due to the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and lowered depreciation rates on switching equipment. The decline in costs of services and products is driven by general expense controls and lower costs associated with equipment and long-distance revenues. Costs of services and products and selling, general and administrative expenses were also impacted by an increase in pension benefits.
o Net operating revenues declined 11.5% to $1.97 billion from $2.23 billion a year ago. Sequentially, revenue was down by a little over 1%. o Excluding special items, operating income for the quarter was $42 million compared to $63 million in the year-ago period. o Adjusted EBITDA* was $393 million in the quarter, down 11% from the year-ago period and up 1% sequentially. Year-to-date Adjusted EBITDA* of $1.15 billion is 9% above the year-ago period. In the quarter, total voice revenues were flat, sequentially. Retail business voice revenues increased 3%, sequentially. Consumer revenues continued to be impacted by product substitution and aggressive competition, but were stable sequentially. Due to the loss of a major customer, wholesale voice revenues were down year over year as expected. Data revenues were again stable sequentially with mixed product performance. Frame Relay revenues grew at a low double-digit rate compared to last year, while ATM and Private Line declined. IP revenues were again impacted by a price reduction of a large Dial IP contract. Other revenues were impacted by lower equipment sales and the sale of our consulting business in the third quarter of 2002. Excluding special items as described in the FON discussion, total expenses declined 11% compared to the year-ago period, and 2% sequentially. The cost savings are being driven by lower headcount and lower volume, and initiatives to improve access unit costs. Additionally, bad debt expense including recoveries of previously written-off accounts declined in the period.
o Third quarter net subscriber additions include 184,000 post-paid retail, 290,000 from wholesale channels and 22,000 from affiliates. At the end of the period, PCS Group was serving a total of 19.3 million customers. o Based on strong service revenue, net operating revenues for the PCS Group were up nearly 6% year over year. Net operating revenues were up 8%, sequentially. o Operating income rose to $284 million, a 13% increase from the second quarter's $251 million, and more than doubled from $141 million in the third quarter of 2002. o Adjusted EBITDA* was $912 million, a 25% improvement from $730 million a year ago. Year to date, Adjusted EBITDA* of $2.56 billion is a 20% increase from 2002. o Average monthly service revenue per user (ARPU)* was just under $63 in the third quarter, down slightly when compared to the year ago period and $1 higher sequentially. During the quarter, PCS customers increased their average usage to nearly 14 hours per month, up from 11 hours in third quarter of 2002. o The cost to acquire a new customer (CPGA)* was $465, up sequentially from $415 and $395 a year ago. CPGA* was impacted by increased marketing spending, a $27 million inventory write-down reflecting a substantial decline in camera phone replacement cost, and increased rebates as a result of higher take rates on two-year contracts. Cash cost per user (CCPU)* was $31, flat sequentially and decreased from $33 a year ago. o Churn was 2.7% this quarter compared to 2.4% sequentially, but remained much lower than the 3.8% reported a year ago. Ahead of the implementation of WLNP (wireless local number portability) in the fourth quarter, the company has implemented initiatives aimed at improved retention. This quarter marked the one-year anniversary of PCS Vision utilizing the nation's largest next-generation wireless network. The popularity of Vision-enabled applications like Picture Mail drove the total number of PCS Vision subscribers to 2.7 million, up from 2.1 million in the second quarter. Combined with Sprint's first generation WAP (wireless application protocol) data services, Sprint now supports more than five million total data subscribers. The PCS Group continues to enhance its growth potential through strategic alliances. These alliances leverage Sprint's network assets and broaden channels for selling our services. The Virgin Mobile joint venture boosted resale additions this quarter with back-to-school promotions. Additionally, Sprint introduced Virgin's prepaid products to its retail locations. During the quarter, Sprint completed a wholesale agreement with Qwest Communications that is expected to add Qwest's wireless subscribers to the PCS network in 2004. The agreement will offer Qwest subscribers the convenience of nationwide calling plans, as well as access to the advanced applications and features of Sprint-branded PCS Vision. The PCS Group's year-to-date Free Cash Flow* of $548 million is an increase of $907 million over the same period in 2002. The 2003 results exclude $525 million of tax benefits from the FON Group associated with the sale of the directory publishing business. The difference between reported PCS Group loss per share and loss per share from continuing operations - adjusted, is the result of the following charges: o Executive separation agreements - a pre-tax charge of $19 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 for the PCS Group's share of charges associated with executive separation agreements. o Shareholder litigation charge - a pre-tax charge of $26 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 for the PCS Group's share of a shareholder litigation settlement. This charge was partially offset by $9 million of insurance proceeds received in the third quarter of 2003. o Pegaso sale - a pre-tax gain of $67 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2002 related to the sale of the investment in Pegaso.
o Tax benefit - a tax benefit of $57 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2002 related to capital losses that were previously not recognizable. *Financial Measures Sprint provides readers financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. The financial measures used in this release include the following: Operating income (loss) adjusted for special items is defined as operating income plus special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. Free Cash Flow is defined as the change in cash and equivalents less the change in discontinued operations, debt, investment in debt securities and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. Net Debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. ARPU (Average monthly service revenue per user) is calculated by dividing wireless service revenues by weighted average monthly wireless subscribers. ARPU is used to measure revenue on a per user basis. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. CCPU (Cash cost per user) is calculated by dividing costs of wireless service revenues, service delivery and other general and administrative costs by weighted average monthly wireless subscribers. CCPU is a measure analysts use to evaluate the cash costs to operate the business on a per user basis. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. CPGA (Cost per gross addition) is calculated by dividing the costs of acquiring a new wireless subscriber, including equipment subsidies, marketing costs and selling expenses, by gross additional subscribers. Analysts use this measure in conjunction with the other measures to evaluate the profitability of the operation. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. Business Outlook The following statements are based on current expectations for 2003. These statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. Sprint currently expects to provide an update on business trends in the latter part of the fourth quarter. Sprint has announced plans to transform its organization to be structured around customer segments. These transformation activities will result in additional restructuring costs being incurred in subsequent quarters. Sprint now expects planning efforts for this transformation to extend through the balance of the year. As a result, we are rescheduling our annual investment community meeting to coincide with the release of fourth quarter earnings which are expected to be in early February 2004. We will announce the specifics on the meeting as soon as logistical arrangements are finalized. Sprint is updating its 2003 guidance for the FON Group as follows: Full-year EPS from continuing operations - adjusted in 2003 are expected to be between $1.43 and $1.45 per diluted share. This is an increase from prior guidance of $1.35 to $1.40. Our EPS guidance excludes all special items. Full-year revenues are targeted to decline at around 7%. Our prior guidance called for a 6-7% decline. In the fourth quarter, we expect relatively stable revenues sequentially. Sprint expects full-year FON Operating income adjusted for special items* to be between $1.85 billion and $1.90 billion. The prior range was $1.80 billion to $1.85 billion. Capital expenditures are now expected to be approximately $1.7 billion, a $100 million reduction from our previous forecast. Capital spending in the local division is expected to be approximately $1.2 billion and Global Markets capital spending is expected to be a little under $400 million. Sprint now expects full-year 2003 Free Cash Flow* for the FON Group to be approximately $1.7 billion. This excludes $1.5 billion of net directory proceeds.
Sprint is updating its 2003 guidance for the PCS Group as follows: Sprint is confirming our previous guidance for the following items: o Full-year loss per share from continuing operations - adjusted of $0.43 to $0.48. Our EPS guidance excludes all special items. o Operating income adjusted for special items* for 2003 in a range of $800 to $900 million. o Full-year Adjusted EBITDA* in the range of $3.3 billion to $3.4 billion. o Full-year gross customer additions in the low- to mid-6 million range. o Capital expenditures at around $2.1 billion. PCS Group is revising full year 2003 Free Cash Flow* to approximately $300 million versus our prior estimate of $200 million. The increase is primarily due to reduced working capital requirements. This excludes $700 million of tax benefits associated with the sale of the directory publishing business. Conference Call Information Sprint management will provide an overview of the company's performance and business outlook, and participate in an interactive Q&A that will be webcast Thursday, Oct. 23, 2003, beginning at 7:00 a.m. CT for FON and 7:45 a.m. CT for PCS. Investors may participate by viewing the webcast at www.sprint.com. Please plan on gaining access 10 minutes prior to the start of the calls. For FON Group results, call 866-215-1938 (toll free) or 816-650-0742 (international). A continuous replay of the FON Group call will be available through Nov. 6, 2003, at the following numbers: 888-775-8696 (toll free) or 402-220-1326 (international). For PCS Group results, call 866-215-1938 (toll free) or 816-650-0742 (international). A continuous replay of the PCS Group call will be available through Nov. 6, 2003, at the following numbers: 888-775-8673 (toll free) or 402-220-1325 (international). Cautionary Statement regarding forward-looking information This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook and expected performance as well as other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "believe," "target" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, Sprint has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth, pricing, costs to acquire customers and to provide services, the timing of various events and the economic environment. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include: o extent and duration of the current economic downturn; o the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which Sprint operates; o the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new markets necessary to provide nationwide or global services; o adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by ratings agencies; o the ability of the PCS Group and the Global Markets Division to continue to grow a significant market presence; o the ability of the PCS Group and the Global Markets Division to improve profitability and reduce cash requirements; o the effects of mergers and consolidations within the telecommunications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the telecommunications industry; o the uncertainties related to the outcome of bankruptcies affecting the telecommunications industry; o the impact to the PCS Group's network coverage due to financial difficulties of third-party affiliates, o the uncertainties related to Sprint's investments; o the impact of any unusual items resulting from ongoing evaluations of Sprint's business strategies; o the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on Sprint's business; o unexpected results of litigation filed against Sprint; o the impact of wireless local number portability on the PCS Group's growth and churn rates, revenues and expenses;
o the possibility of one or more of the markets in which Sprint competes being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes including the impact of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), or other external factors over which Sprint has no control; and o other risks referenced from time to time in Sprint's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Sprint believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Sprint provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in periodic SEC filings, including its 2002 Form 10-K, and you are encouraged to review these filings. About Sprint Sprint is a global integrated communications provider serving more than 26 million customers in over 100 countries. With approximately 70,000 employees worldwide and nearly $27 billion in annual revenues, Sprint is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying state-of-the-art network technologies, including the United States' first nationwide all-digital, fiber-optic network and an award-winning Tier 1 Internet backbone. Sprint provides local communications services in 39 states and the District of Columbia and operates the largest 100-percent digital, nationwide PCS wireless network in the United States. For more information, visit www.sprint.com. For further information, contact Corporate Communictions: - - Media Relations: Mark Bonavia 913-794-1088 mark.bonavia@mail.sprint.com - - Investor Relations: Kurt Fawkes 913-794-1126 Investorrelation.sprintcom@mail.sprint.com
Sprint Corporation FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (1) In the 2003 second quarter, Sprint recorded charges of $36 million in connection with the separation agreements agreed to by Sprint and three former executive officers. This includes a $15 million non-cash charge associated with accounting for modifications to certain terms of stock options granted in prior periods. The charge to the FON Group was $17 million, which increased FON Group's loss from continuing operations by $10 million, or $0.01 per share. The charge to the PCS Group was $19 million, which increased loss from continuing operations by $12 million, or $0.01 per share. In the 2002 third quarter, Sprint recorded a charge to bad debt expense in connection with the bankruptcy declaration of WorldCom, which reduced operating income by $36 million and income from continuing operations by $23 million. The charge to the FON Group was $30 million, which reduced income from continuing operations by $19 million, or $0.02 per share. The charge to the PCS Group was $6 million, which increased loss from continuing operations by $4 million with no per share impact. (2) In the 2003 third quarter, Sprint's ongoing evaluation of business use for the FON Group's MMDS spectrum resulted in a decision to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy. While alternative strategies continue to be evaluated, this decision required a revaluation of the fair value of the asset, resulting in a pre-tax, non-cash charge of $1.2 billion, reducing the carrying value to $300 million. This charge increased FON Group's loss from continuing operations by $777 million, or $0.86 per share. In the 2003 second quarter, the FON Group recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $348 million primarily related to winding down the Global Markets Division's Web hosting business. This includes a $337 million non-cash charge for the impairment of hosting assets and an $11 million charge related to cash requirements for employee terminations. The 2003 second quarter charge increased loss from continuing operations by $218 million, or $0.24 per share. Sprint will record additional charges for facility lease terminations, customer migration, employee termination and other wind-down costs in subsequent periods. The associated 2003 third quarter charge was $2 million, which increased loss from continuing operations by $1 million with no per share impact. In the 2003 first quarter, the PCS Group recorded a charge of $10 million associated with the termination of a software development project. This increased loss from continuing operations by $6 million with no per share impact. In the 2002 third quarter, Sprint recorded restructuring charge and asset impairment activity of $121 million, which reduced income from continuing operations by $76 million. The FON Group recorded a restructuring charge and asset impairment of $202 million representing the termination of high-speed data services. This charge was partially offset by a $76 million reduction in the reserve related to a restructuring announced in the 2001 fourth quarter. This reduced income from continuing operations by $79 million, or $0.09 per share. Also, the PCS Group recorded a $6 million reduction to the restructuring reserve recorded in the 2002 first quarter, which was partially offset by a $1 million increase to the restructuring reserve recorded in the 2001 fourth quarter. This reduced loss from continuing operations by $3 million with no per share impact. In the 2002 first quarter, the PCS Group recorded a $23 million restructuring charge representing the closing of five PCS call centers, as well as additional steps to reduce operating costs in its PCS business units. This charge was offset by favorable accounting true-ups. In total, the charge and true-ups had no effect on net loss or loss per share. (3) In the 2003 first quarter, the FON Group recorded a $19 million charge reflecting the premiums paid on a debt tender offer. In the 2003 third quarter, an additional $2 million premium was recorded primarily reflecting the early retirement of local division debt. For the nine months ended September 30, 2003, these charges increased FON Group loss from continuing operations by $13 million, or $0.02 per share. There was no per share impact of this event in the 2003 third quarter. (4) In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint recorded to Other income (expense), a $50 million aggregate charge to settle a securities class action and derivative lawsuit relating to the failed merger with WorldCom. In the 2003 third quarter, Sprint recorded $17 million from an insurance settlement related to this action. For the nine months ended September 30, 2003 Sprint attributed $16 million of the net charge to the FON Group, which increased loss from continuing operations by $10 million, or $0.01 per share. The remaining net charge of $17 million was attributed to the PCS Group, which increased loss from continuing operations by $11 million, or $0.01 per share. There was no per share impact related to this event for either the FON Group or PCS Group in the 2003 third quarter. In the 2002 second quarter, the FON Group recorded in Other income (expense), net, charges of $201 million, which reduced income from continuing operations by $216 million, or $0.24 per share. These amounts included a gain from the sale of customer contracts for $40 million with an impact to income from continuing operations of $25 million, or $0.03 per share. Also included is a write-down of an investment due to declining market value of $241 million with the same impact on income from continuing operations, or $0.27 per share. In the 2002 third quarter, the PCS Group recorded to Other income (expense), net, a gain on the sale of an equity method investment of $67 million with the same impact on loss from continuing operations, or $0.07 per share. (5) In the 2002 third quarter, Sprint recognized a tax benefit related to the capital losses not previously recognized of $292 million. The benefit to the FON Group was $235 million, or $0.26 per share. The benefit to the PCS Group was $57 million, or $0.05 per share. (6) In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint recorded an after-tax gain of $1.3 billion associated with the sale of its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley. Activity in subsequent quarters relates to final settlement activity of the sale. (7) Sprint adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations on January 1, 2003. In the FON Group, the local division historically accrued costs of removal in its depreciation reserves consistent with industry practice. These costs of removal do not meet the SFAS No. 143 definition of an asset retirement obligation. Accordingly, the FON Group recorded a credit of $420 million to remove the accumulated excess cost of removal resulting in a favorable cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $258 million, net of tax. The ongoing impact of this accounting change is expected to increase FON Group's net income through reduced depreciation expense by less than $15 million annually. (8) As the effects of including the incremental shares associated with options, restricted stock units and ESPP shares are antidilutive, both basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share reflect the same calculation in these consolidated statements of operations for the FON Group's 2003 periods and the PCS Group's 2003 and 2002 periods . (9) As the effects of including the incremental shares associated with options, restricted stock units and ESPP shares are antidilutive, they are not included in the weighted average common shares outstanding for the FON Group's 2003 periods or the PCS Group's 2003 periods and 2002 periods.


