FILE:S/S-8K-20030423160206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) April 21, 2003 SPRINT CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Kansas 1-04721 48-0457967 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 6200 Sprint Parkway, Overland Park, Kansas 66251 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (913) 624-3000 (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) P. O. Box 11315, Kansas City, Missouri 64112 (Mailing address of principal executive offices)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits 99. Press Release announcing 2003 first quarter results. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition Press Release. On April 21, 2003, the registrant ("Sprint") announced its 2003 first quarter results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. SPRINT CORPORATION Date: April 23, 2003 By: /s/ Michael T. Hyde Michael T. Hyde, Assistant Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page 99. Press Release announcing 2003 first quarter results.

Exhibit 99 Sprint Reports First Quarter Results and Updates Guidance for 2003 o Dramatic improvement in Sprint's financial strength - debt reduced $1.6 billion and cash increased more than $1 billion, to $2.1 billion; o FON Group income from continuing operations up 13 percent; o PCS Group reports strong improvement in financial and operating performance OVERLAND PARK, KAN, APRIL 21, 2003: The Sprint FON Group (NYSE: FON) is comprised of Sprint's global markets division, local telecommunications division and other businesses consisting primarily of wholesale distribution of telecommunications products. The Sprint PCS Group (NYSE: PCS) consists of Sprint's mobile wireless operations. First quarter operating income of $604 million improved 17 percent from last year on slightly lower revenues. First quarter net income was $1.67 billion, compared to $140 million in 2002, and includes a $1.31 billion net gain on the sale of our directory publishing business, as well as a $258 million net gain related to the adoption of a new accounting principle. First quarter net income also includes a $50 million pre-tax charge to settle shareholder litigation. Cash flows improved significantly in the first quarter of 2003 compared to last year, allowing Sprint to reduce debt by $1.56 billion during the quarter and to increase cash by more than $1 billion. Sprint ended the quarter with a cash balance of $2.10 billion. This cash performance was aided by $2.22 billion in proceeds from the sale of our directory publishing business. "We faced the challenges of a sluggish economy and heightened competition in the first quarter," said Gary Forsee, chief executive officer of Sprint. "In this challenging environment, each of our businesses performed admirably. The PCS Group reported better operating performance, added an improving mix of customers, and delivered higher quality customer service. The FON Group produced double-digit operating income growth. Our local division executed on our strategic priorities and aggressively managed costs. Our global markets division improved operating income and cash production despite much lower revenues." The FON Group reported first quarter earnings per share (EPS) of $2.06 compared to $0.32 per share a year ago. EPS for the quarter includes $1.46 per share for the gain on the sale of the directory publishing business and $0.29 per share for the gain related to the adoption of a new accounting principle. EPS also includes $0.02 per share for the charge to settle shareholder litigation, and $0.01 per share for premiums paid to repurchase debt. The PCS Group reported a first quarter loss of $0.18 per share compared to a loss of $0.15 per share in the first quarter of 2002. EPS for the PCS Group also includes $0.02 per share for the charge to settle shareholder litigation.
"Going forward, the asset mix at Sprint positions us to differentiate ourselves based on an integrated product offering," Forsee said. "We will capitalize on our portfolio and our ability to integrate, to drive profitable top-line growth and to realize cost synergies. At the same time, Sprint must continue to improve its bottom line, and build upon its financial strength and flexibility through its continued debt reduction initiative." o First quarter FON Group revenues declined 8% from a year ago. o First quarter FON Group operating income was up 14% over last year. o First quarter FON Group operating margin was 13%, up 250 basis points compared to a year ago. o First quarter FON Group Adjusted EBITDA* of $1.08 billion increased by 4% compared to the year-ago quarter. o First quarter FON Group net income benefited from the gain on the sale of our directory publishing business. o The FON Group's Free Cash Flow* of $2.52 billion increased by $2.71 billion compared to the year-ago quarter, including proceeds of $2.22 billion from the sale of our directory publishing business.
The difference between reported FON Group EPS and EPS from continuing operations - - adjusted, is the result of the following items: o Discontinued operation - a pre-tax gain of $2.13 billion was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 associated with the sale of Sprint's directory publishing business. o Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle - a pre-tax gain of $420 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 upon adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. o Shareholder litigation charge - FON Group's share of the pre-tax charge was $24 million, recorded in the first quarter of 2003 to settle shareholder litigation. o First quarter revenues declined 2% from the same period last year. o First quarter operating margin was 30% compared to 31% in the year-ago period. o Adjusted EBITDA* was $726 million, compared to $767 million in the first quarter 2002. o Total access lines declined 1.9%; but voice grade equivalent lines grew 7%. The local division delivered a solid performance in the quarter in spite of a challenging operating environment in which wireless substitution, competition and a difficult economy contributed to declines in revenue and operating income. Results were also impacted by a $24 million pre-tax increase in pension and retiree benefit costs. DSL subscriber growth remained strong with the addition of 34,000 lines. At the end of the quarter there were 185,000 lines in service. The division reported continued gains in bundled service customers and further increased Sprint's long-distance penetration. In the quarter, the division launched a second edge-out market in Orlando, and is on track to expand to additional markets in the second half of the year.
o Net operating revenues declined 13% from a year ago and 2.5% sequentially. o Access management initiatives and tight cost controls contributed to positive operating income versus a loss in the year-ago period. o Adjusted EBITDA* was $366 million, an increase of 30% from first quarter 2002. The global markets division continues to focus on product mix and cost management in response to a difficult telecommunications market. In the first quarter, the division reported double-digit, year-over-year reductions in both cost of services and products, and selling, general and administration expenses. In the quarter, data services revenues decreased 5 percent year-over-year primarily due to a decline in private line. Growth in dedicated IP and hosting revenues were offset by a substantial decline in dial IP. Internationally, we continued the expansion of our global IP network in key markets in Europe and Asia. During the quarter, Sprint's growing international capabilities won new business from enterprises and service providers with global connectivity requirements. o First quarter net operating revenues increased 3.5% compared to a year ago. o First quarter operating income was up 24% from last year. o Adjusted EBITDA* was $758 million, an increase of 18% from first quarter 2002. o First quarter net adds were 199,000. o Churn of 3.1% decreased 40 basis points sequentially. o CCPU* of just under $31 is down 11% sequentially and 3% from first quarter 2002. o CPGA* was $365 versus $305 in the year-ago first quarter and $370 in the fourth quarter of 2002. In the first quarter, the PCS Group achieved a strong gain in operating profitability, solid improvement in receivables management, improved customer retention, and rising customer satisfaction.
A majority of direct gross additions were prime credit customers. Combined, direct, non-equity affiliate and resale net additions reached 483,000. For the first quarter of 2003, ARPU* was just under $59, compared to $62 in the fourth quarter and $60 in the first quarter a year ago. An increase in the average monthly recurring charge was more than offset by lower overage charges and a decrease in the affiliate travel rate. Average customer usage in the quarter was a little over 11 1/2 hours per month compared to 11 hours per month in the fourth quarter. CCPU* improvement in the quarter was mainly driven by lower bad debt expense. CPGA* increased from the year-ago period mainly due to lower gross adds. Churn improved 40 basis points sequentially in the first quarter to 3.1 percent. This decline was driven primarily by a reduction in involuntary churn resulting from credit management changes made in the fourth quarter. Additionally, voluntary churn experienced modest improvements as a result of customer satisfaction initiatives. At the end of the quarter, the division's total direct customer base was almost 15 million, and including non-equity affiliates and resellers, the total number of customers served on the Sprint PCS network was more than 18.2 million. At the end of the quarter, there were nearly 1.3 million PCS Vision users. The PCS Group's first quarter 2003 free cash flow increased by over $500 million from the year-ago quarter, driven by increased cash from operating activities and substantially lower capital expenditures. Capital expenditures are expected to ramp up over the remainder of the year. The difference between reported PCS Group loss per share and loss per share from continuing operations - adjusted, is the result of the following charges: o Shareholder litigation charge - PCS Group's share of the pre-tax charge was $26 million, recorded in the first quarter of 2003 to settle shareholder litigation. o Asset impairment - a pre-tax charge of $10 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 associated with the termination of a software development project. The impact increased the loss per share by less than $0.01. Effect of Adoption of New Accounting Principles Effective January 1, 2003, Sprint adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Upon adoption, the FON Group recorded a reduction in its historical depreciation reserves of $420 million, pre-tax, resulting in a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles of $258 million, net of tax. In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint began to expense the fair value of stock-based employee compensation. Sprint applies the method prescribed in SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure, to all option grants made after January 1, 2003. Because stock options were granted late in the quarter, the impact of adoption was minimal in the first quarter. Sprint estimates that adoption will result in a charge to 2003 earnings of about $0.01 per share each for FON Group and PCS Group. *Financial Measures Sprint provides readers financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. The financial measures used in this release include the following:
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. Free Cash Flow is defined as the change in cash and equivalents less the change in debt and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. Net Debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. ARPU (Average monthly service revenue per user) is calculated by dividing wireless service revenues by weighted average monthly wireless subscribers. ARPU is used to measure revenue on a per user basis. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. CCPU (Cash cost per user) is calculated by dividing costs of wireless service revenues, service delivery and other general and administrative costs by weighted average monthly wireless subscribers. CCPU is a measure analysts use to evaluate the cash costs to operate the business on a per user basis. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. CPGA (Cost per gross addition) is calculated by dividing the costs of acquiring a new wireless subscriber, including equipment subsidies, marketing costs and selling expenses, by gross additional subscribers. Analysts use this measure in conjunction with the other measures to evaluate the profitability of the operation. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. Business Outlook The following statements are based on current expectations for 2003. These statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. Sprint is updating its 2003 guidance for the FON Group as follows: Full-year earnings in 2003 are expected to be between $1.30 and $1.35 per diluted share. Incorporated into this estimate is increased pension and retiree benefit costs, currently estimated to reduce earnings by 10 cents per share. This new estimate also includes the shareholder litigation charge recorded in the first quarter, higher net interest costs including the first quarter debt redemption costs, the effects of adopting stock option expensing in the first quarter, and reduced profit expectations from global markets. This estimate excludes the following first quarter events; the gain from the sale of the directory publishing business, and the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 143. Revenues are targeted to decline 6 - 7 percent for the full year. Global markets division revenues are expected to decline 8 -10 percent, and local telecommunications division revenue is expected to be flat to down modestly. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $2.0 billion. In 2003, the global markets division has targeted capital of $600 million, and the local division capital plan is $1.3 billion. Cash provided by operating activities is expected to be approximately $3.9 billion. Sprint is updating its 2003 guidance for the PCS Group as follows: Full-year net loss in 2003 is expected to be between $0.45 and $0.50 per share. This estimate incorporates the first quarter shareholder litigation charge of $0.02, per share and assumes the adoption of stock option expensing has a full-year dilutive effect of $0.01. Operating income in 2003 is expected to be between $800 million and $900 million. Adjusted EBITDA* is expected to be between $3.3 billion and $3.4 billion. Sprint has targeted gross customer additions to be in the low- to mid-6 million range. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $2.1 billion.
Cash provided by operating activities is expected to be approximately $2.3 billion, before any tax sharing payments associated with the sale of the directory publishing business. Consolidated cash requirements: In 2003, Sprint expects consolidated free cash flow to be approximately $3.8 billion, consisting of $2.2 billion of proceeds from the sale of the directory publishing business, $1.4 billion from FON Group operations and $200 million from PCS Group operations. FON Group expects to retain about $1.5 billion of the cash proceeds from the sale of the directory publishing business, with the balance to be paid to the PCS Group in the form of tax sharing payments throughout 2003. Conference Call Information Sprint management will provide an overview of the company's performance and business outlook, and participate in an interactive Q&A that will be webcast Monday, Apr. 21, 2003, beginning at 4:30 p.m. EDT for PCS and 5:30 p.m. EDT for FON. Please plan on gaining access 10 minutes prior to the start of the calls. For PCS Group results, call 866-215-1938 (toll free) or 816-650-0742 (international). A continuous replay of the PCS Group call will be available through May 5, 2003, at the following numbers: 888-775-8673 (toll free) or 402-220-1325 (international). For FON Group results, call 866-215-1938 (toll free) or 816-650-0742 (international). A continuous replay of the FON Group call will be available through May 5, 2003, at the following numbers: 888-775-8696 (toll free) or 402-220-1326 (international). A simultaneous audiocast will be available at www.sprint.com. A link to the audiocast will be posted at www.sprint.com. Please note that questions may only be submitted through the conference call option. Cautionary Statement regarding forward-looking information This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook and expected performance as well as other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "believe," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, Sprint has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth, pricing, costs to acquire customers and to provide services, the timing of various events and the economic environment. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include: o extent and duration of the current economic downturn; o the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which Sprint operates; o the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new markets necessary to provide nationwide or global services; o adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by ratings agencies; o the ability of the PCS Group to continue to grow a significant market presence; o the ability of the PCS Group to improve its profitability and reduce its cash requirements; o the effects of mergers and consolidations within the telecommunications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the telecommunications industry; o the uncertainties related to the outcome of bankruptcies affecting the telecommunications industry; o the impact to the PCS Group's network coverage due to financial difficulties of third-party affiliates, o the uncertainties related to Sprint's investments; o the impact of any unusual items resulting from ongoing evaluations of Sprint's business strategies; o the impact of new and emerging technologies on Sprint's business; o unexpected results of litigation filed against Sprint; o the possibility of one or more of the markets in which Sprint competes being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes including the impact of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), or other external factors over which Sprint has no control; and
o other risks referenced from time to time in Sprint's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Sprint believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Sprint provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in periodic SEC filings, including its 2002 Form 10-K, and you are encouraged to review these filings. About Sprint Sprint is a global communications company serving more than 26 million business and residential customers in over 70 countries. With approximately 72,000 employees worldwide and nearly $27 billion in annual revenues, Sprint is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying state-of-the-art network technologies, including the United States' first nationwide all-digital, fiber-optic network and an award-winning Tier 1 Internet backbone. Sprint provides local voice and data services in 18 states and operates the largest 100-percent digital, nationwide PCS wireless network in the United States.
For further information, contact Corporate Communications: - - Media Relations: Mark Bonavia 913-794-1088 mark.bonavia@mail.sprint.com Bill White 913-794-1099 bill.white@mail.sprint.com - - Investor Relations: Kurt Fawkes 913-794-1126 Investorrelation.sprintcom@mail.sprint.com
Sprint Corporation FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (millions, except per share data) (1) In the 2003 first quarter, the PCS Group recorded a charge of $10 million associated with the termination of a software development project. This increased loss from continuing operations by $6 million with no impact on earnings per share. In the 2002 first quarter, the PCS Group recorded a $23 million restructuring charge representing the closing of five PCS call centers, as well as additional steps to reduce operating costs in its PCS business units. This charge was offset by favorable accounting true-ups. In total, the charge and true-ups had no effect on net loss or loss per share. (2) In the 2003 first quarter, the FON Group recorded a $19 million charge reflecting the premiums paid on a debt tender offer. This decreased income from continuing operations by $12 million, or $0.01 per share. (3) In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint recorded a $50 million charge to settle shareholder litigation. The charge to the FON Group was $24 million which reduced income from continuing operations by $15 million, or $0.02 per share. The charge to the PCS Group was $26 million which increased loss from continuing operations by $17 million, or $0.02 per share. (4) In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint recorded an after-tax gain of $1.3 billion associated with the sale of its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley. (5) Sprint adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," on January 1, 2003. In the FON Group, the local division historically accrued costs of removal in its depreciation reserves consistent with industry practice. These costs of removal do not meet the SFAS No. 143 definition of an asset retirement obligation. Accordingly, the FON Group recorded a credit of $420 million to remove the accumulated excess cost of removal resulting in a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle credit of $258 million, net of tax. The annual impact of this accounting change is expected to decrease FON Group's 2003 depreciation expense by approximately $40 million and increase 2003 expenses incurred for removal costs by approximately $20 million. (6) As the effects of including the incremental shares associated with options and ESPP shares are antidilutive, both basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share reflect the same calculation in these consolidated statements of operations of the PCS Group. (7) As the effects of including the incremental shares associated with options and ESPP shares are antidilutive, they are not included in the weighted average common shares outstanding for the PCS Group. (8) In the 2002 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded restructuring charges and asset impairments aggregating $245 million. The FON Group recorded a restructuring charge of $111 million representing consolidations in Sprint's Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, as well as additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. Additionally, it recorded a network asset impairment related to the Global Markets Division of $14 million. The PCS Group recorded a restructuring charge of $35 million representing the consolidations in Sprint's Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, as well as a charge of $43 million to create a more competitive cost structure by reducing operating expenses. Additionally, the PCS Group recorded an asset impairment of $42 million representing abandoned projects.


