FILE:S/S-8K-20030730144303.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) July 28, 2003 SPRINT CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Kansas 1-04721 48-0457967 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 6200 Sprint Parkway, Overland Park, Kansas 66251 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (913) 624-3000 P. O. Box 11315, Kansas City, Missouri 64112 (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) P. O. Box 7997, Shawnee Mission, Kansas 66207-0997 (Mailing address of principal executive offices)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits Exhibits 99. Press Release announcing 2003 second quarter results. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition Press Release. On July 28, 2003, the registrant ("Sprint") announced its 2003 second quarter results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99. 1
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. SPRINT CORPORATION Date: July 30, 2003 By: /s/ Michael T. Hyde Michael T. Hyde, Assistant Secretary 2
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page 99. Press Release announcing 2003 second quarter results. 3

Exhibit 99 Sprint Reports Second Quarter Results Sprint reports very strong positive free cash flow; FON Group improves profitability, progresses on initiatives; PCS Group reports significant churn reduction, strong revenues and growth in operating income OVERLAND PARK, Kan. - July 28, 2003: The Sprint FON Group (NYSE: FON) is comprised of Sprint's global markets division, local division and other businesses consisting primarily of wholesale distribution of telecommunications products. The Sprint PCS Group (NYSE: PCS) consists of Sprint's mobile wireless operations. Second quarter consolidated net operating revenues were $6.5 billion compared to $6.7 billion in the same period last year. Net income for the second quarter was $7 million compared to a net loss of $68 million last year. Second quarter operating income was $370 million compared to $670 million a year ago. Operating income adjusted for special items* was $754 million, up 13% from a year ago. Total Free Cash Flow* in the second quarter was $925 million. Year-to-date total Free Cash Flow* was $1.3 billion. In the first quarter of 2003, Sprint also received $2.2 billion of proceeds from the sale of its directory publishing business. "Across Sprint our associates are focused on enhancing the customer experience while creating economic value for our investors. The second quarter performance reflects this focus," said Gary Forsee, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Sprint. "The PCS Group reported solid improvements in its operating performance, adding a total of more than 600,000 new customers, including 360,000 post-paid retail additions, 177,000 wholesale additions and 80,000 additions from affiliates, while improving the customer churn rate by 70 basis points sequentially and posting record operating income and strong cash flows. The FON Group made significant progress on key initiatives, continued to deliver strong cash flows despite difficult market conditions and is maintaining a leadership position in terms of enterprise satisfaction with data services. Our local division converted its initial central office to a packet architecture, while producing strong DSL subscriber growth, increased bundle penetration and steady operating income. The global markets division orchestrated our UNE-P efforts in the consumer market which has now yielded over 100,000 customers, reported stabilizing retail business revenues and once again reported positive operating income adjusted for special items." Forsee added, "In the quarter, Sprint continued to strengthen its balance sheet ending June with more than $2.7 billion in cash. Since the beginning of the year net debt* has declined by more than $3.5 billion, positioning us ahead of schedule on our two-year plan to reduce net debt* by $7 billion. In the quarter we completed naming the executive team, continued to evaluate and implement changes to the company's operating structure and took important steps to transform Sprint into the industry's leading integrated services provider." 1
The FON Group reported income from continuing operations of $90 million, or 10 cents per diluted share for the second quarter, compared to $64 million, or 7 cents per share, a year ago. Before special items described on the following page, FON Group EPS was 35 cents versus 31 cents in the year-ago period, a 13% increase. The PCS Group reported a second quarter net loss of $92 million, or 9 cents per share, compared to a net loss of $170 million, or 17 cents per share, in the second quarter last year. In the quarter, FON Group revenues declined 8% from the same period a year ago. Operating income was $109 million compared to $441 million a year ago. Operating income adjusted for special items* was $474 million this period versus $441 million in the second quarter a year ago, an increase of 7.5%. Adjusted EBITDA* of $1.1 billion increased by 1% compared to the year-ago quarter. Second quarter costs of services and products declined 15% compared to the year-ago quarter. The FON Group's year-to-date Free Cash Flow* of $1.04 billion increased $739 million compared to the six months ended 2002. 2
The difference between reported FON Group EPS and EPS from continuing operations - - adjusted, is the result of the following items: Discontinued operation - a pre-tax gain of $2.13 billion was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 associated with the sale of Sprint's directory publishing business. Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle - a pre-tax gain of $420 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 upon adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. Web hosting wind-down - a pre-tax charge of $348 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 primarily associated with the decision to wind down the Web hosting business. Executive separation agreements - a pre-tax charge of $17 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 for the FON Group's share of charges associated with executive separation agreements. Shareholder litigation charge - a pre-tax charge of $24 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 for the FON Group's share of a shareholder litigation settlement. Premium on early retirement of debt - a pre-tax charge of $19 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 related to the early retirement of approximately $1.1 billion of long-term debt. EarthLink impairment - a pre-tax charge of $241 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2002 due to declining market value. Sale of customer contracts - a pre-tax gain of $40 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2002 related to the sale of customer contracts. Second quarter revenues of $1.53 billion declined 1% from $1.55 billion in the same period last year. Operating income was $449 million compared to $481 million a year ago. Operating income adjusted for special items* was $457 million compared to $481 million a year ago but in line with first quarter levels. Adjusted EBITDA* was $729 million compared to $769 million last year. Sequentially, adjusted EBITDA* was flat. 3
DSL subscribership grew 20% sequentially to 223,000 with an increase of 38,000 customers for the quarter. Total access lines declined 2.4% from the year ago period to 8 million lines. Second quarter operating margin was 29% compared to 31% in the year-ago period and 30% in the first quarter. The local division continues to execute on key strategic initiatives including increasing penetration of bundled services and DSL, expanding Sprint-branded local service beyond existing local service territories and converting circuit-based networks to next-generation packet technology. In the quarter, the division successfully converted a local office to packet switching and plans to convert a total of 210,000 lines by the end of the year. The division reported continued gains in bundled service customers. Consumer bundle penetration increased 570 basis points to over 30% and business bundle penetration increased 590 basis points from the year-ago period to over 25%. Total expenses increased 1%, driven by higher costs for pension, retiree benefits and healthcare. The increases in costs of services & products and selling, general & administrative were somewhat offset by lower depreciation expense principally due to the adoption of SFAS No. 143. Selling, general & administrative expenses were also impacted by the executive separation agreements reached during the second quarter, somewhat offset by improvements in bad debt expense. Net operating revenues declined 12% to $2 billion from $2.28 billion a year ago. Sequentially, revenue was down 2% from $2.04 billion. The division's revenue performance reflects declines primarily in consumer and wholesale voice revenues. Operating loss for the quarter was $329 million compared to an operating loss of $30 million a year ago. Operating income adjusted for special items* was $28 million for the quarter compared to a loss of $30 million in the year-ago period and income of $6 million in the first quarter. Adjusted EBITDA* was $390 million in the quarter, up 17% from the year-ago period and up 7% sequentially. Adjusted EBITDA* as a percent of net operating revenues was 19.5% versus 14.7% a year ago and 17.9% in the first quarter. In the quarter, consumer revenues declined more than 30% from the year-ago period and declined at a low-teens rate sequentially. These revenues continue to be impacted by product substitution and 4
aggressive competition. Retail business voice revenues declined at a high single-digit rate compared to a year ago but were up modestly sequentially. Wholesale voice revenues declined over 20% compared to the year ago period and declined at a mid single-digit rate sequentially. Data services revenues decreased 1 percent year over year. Double-digit growth in frame relay services was offset by declines in ATM and private-line services. Dedicated IP revenues grew at a double-digit rate in the quarter due to strength in Global IP services. Domestic dedicated IP revenues were flat. Dial IP revenues once again declined in the quarter. Offshore IP demand is being driven by a continued expansion of Sprint's global IP network in key markets in Europe, Asia-Pacific and the Americas. Sprint has expanded the reach of its IP services to more than 100 countries worldwide. In the quarter, cost management and an increased focus on projects that produce attractive returns continued to be a priority. The division reported a 20% year-over-year reduction in cost of services and products reflecting lower revenues, lower access costs and general expense controls. General and administrative expenses benefited from lower bad debt expense in the quarter due to improved collections. In June, Sprint announced the wind-down of its Web hosting business, which produced a net loss of approximately 10 cents per share in the preceding 12 months. The wind-down is expected to be substantially complete by year end. Due to stronger service revenues, net operating revenues in the quarter increased 3% compared to a year ago and were up 5% sequentially. Operating income rose 14 percent from the same period last year. Operating income adjusted for special items* increased 22 percent from the same period last year. Adjusted EBITDA* was $887 million, an increase of 16% from the second quarter 2002. Second quarter net new customers were 617,000, consisting of 360,000 post-paid retail, 177,000 wholesale and 80,000 affiliate additions. Post-paid retail additions were up 17 percent from a year ago. In the quarter the customer credit mix continued to improve. Churn of 2.4% improved from 3.1% in the first quarter and compares with 2.9% in the second quarter a year ago. In the quarter ARPU* was $62, compared to $61 in the same period last year and $59 in the first quarter. Average customer usage of nearly 13 1/2 hours per month in the quarter compared to 5
nearly 11 hours a year ago and 12 hours in the first quarter. CCPU* of just under $31 decreased 5% year over year and remained flat sequentially. Without the executive separation charge of $19 million, CCPU was approximately $30. In the quarter, bad debt expense improved substantially. CPGA* was $415 versus $350 in the year-ago second quarter and $365 in the first quarter of 2003. Second quarter churn improvement was driven primarily by tighter credit requirements resulting in improvements in customers' credit quality. Churn reduction was also influenced by improved customer service, integrated service offerings, and continuing coverage and capacity improvements in the PCS network. At the end of the quarter, combined, post-paid retail, non-equity affiliate and resale customers reached 18.8 million, a 10% increase over the past 12 months. The total number of PCS Vision subscribers reached 2.1 million by quarter's end, up from 1.3 million last quarter. Increased customer adoption of PCS Vision and increased data usage by Vision customers contributed to the success of new applications such as PictureMail and successful product offerings, such as the Sanyo 8100 -- both launched in second quarter. The PCS Group's year-to-date free cash flow* of $275 million increased by $521 million compared to the six months ended 2002, driven by increased cash from operating activities and substantially lower capital expenditures. The difference between reported PCS Group loss per share and loss per share from continuing operations - adjusted, is the result of the following charges: Executive separation agreements - a pre-tax charge of $19 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 for the PCS Group's share of charges associated with executive separation agreements. Shareholder litigation charge - a pre-tax charge of $26 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 for the PCS Group's share of a shareholder litigation settlement. Asset impairment - a pre-tax charge of $10 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 associated with the termination of a software development project. The result had an insignificant impact on loss per share. 6
*Financial Measures Sprint provides readers financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non-GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. The financial measures used in this release include the following: Operating income (loss) adjusted for special items is defined as operating income plus special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and special items. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. Free Cash Flow is defined as the change in cash and equivalents less the change in discontinued operations, debt and other financing activities, net. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. Net Debt is consolidated debt, including current maturities, less cash and cash equivalents. This non-GAAP measure should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows. ARPU (Average monthly service revenue per user) is calculated by dividing wireless service revenues by weighted average monthly wireless subscribers. ARPU is used to measure revenue on a per user basis. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. CCPU (Cash cost per user) is calculated by dividing costs of wireless service revenues, service delivery and other general and administrative costs by weighted average monthly wireless subscribers. CCPU is a measure analysts use to evaluate the cash costs to operate the business on a per user basis. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. CPGA (Cost per gross addition) is calculated by dividing the costs of acquiring a new wireless subscriber, including equipment subsidies, marketing costs and selling expenses, by gross additional subscribers. Analysts use this measure in conjunction with the other measures to evaluate the profitability of the operation. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for calculation. Business Outlook The following statements are based on current expectations for 2003. These statements are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially. Sprint is updating its 2003 guidance for the FON Group as follows: Full-year EPS from continuing operations - adjusted in 2003 are expected to be between $1.35 and $1.40 per diluted share. Our EPS guidance now excludes all special items. Full-year revenues continue to be targeted to decline at a 6-7% rate with Global Markets expected to be down 8-10% and Local revenues expected to be down modestly. Sprint expects full-year operating income, adjusted for special items to be between $1.8 billion and 1.85 billion. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $1.8 billion, a $200 million reduction from our previous forecast. Capital spending in the local division is expected to be approximately $1.25 billion and Global Markets capital spending is expected to be approximately $450 million. Cash provided by operating activities is now expected to be approximately $3.7 billion versus our prior estimate of $3.9 billion. The change reflects our decision to accelerate pension fund contributions, which were originally expected to be made in 2004. Sprint is updating its 2003 guidance for the PCS Group as follows: Sprint continues to expect a full-year loss per share from continuing operations - - adjusted of $0.43 to $0.48 per share. Our EPS guidance now excludes all special items. Operating income, adjusted for special items for 2003 is expected to be in the $800 to $900 million range. We continue to expect full-year adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $3.3 to $3.4 billion. PCS Group continues to target full-year gross customer additions to be in the low- to mid-6 million range. Capital expenditures continue to be targeted at around $2.1 billion. Cash provided by operating activities is targeted to be approximately $2.3 billion. 7
Conference Call Information Sprint management will provide an overview of the company's performance and business outlook, and participate in an interactive Q&A that will be webcast Monday, July 28, 2003, beginning at 3:45 p.m. CDT for PCS and 4:45 p.m. CDT for FON. Investors may participate by viewing the webcast at www.sprint.com. Please plan on gaining access 10 minutes prior to the start of the calls. For PCS Group results, call 866-215-1938 (toll free) or 816-650-0742 (international). A continuous replay of the PCS Group call will be available through August 11, 2003, at the following numbers: 888-775-8673 (toll free) or 402-220-1325 (international). For FON Group results, call 866-215-1938 (toll free) or 816-650-0742 (international). A continuous replay of the FON Group call will be available through August 11, 2003, at the following numbers: 888-775-8696 (toll free) or 402-220-1326 (international). Cautionary Statement regarding forward-looking information This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook and expected performance as well as other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "believe," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, Sprint has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth, pricing, costs to acquire customers and to provide services, the timing of various events and the economic environment. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include: extent and duration of the current economic downturn; the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which Sprint operates; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new markets necessary to provide nationwide or global services; adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by ratings agencies; the ability of the PCS Group and the Global Markets Division to continue to grow a significant market presence; the ability of the PCS Group and the Global Markets Division to improve profitability and reduce cash requirements; the effects of mergers and consolidations within the telecommunications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the telecommunications industry; the uncertainties related to the outcome of bankruptcies affecting the telecommunications industry; the impact to the PCS Group's network coverage due to financial difficulties of third-party affiliates, the uncertainties related to Sprint's investments; the impact of any unusual items resulting from ongoing evaluations of Sprint's business strategies; the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on Sprint's business; unexpected results of litigation filed against Sprint; the possibility of one or more of the markets in which Sprint competes being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes including the impact of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), or other external factors over which Sprint has no control; and other risks referenced from time to time in Sprint's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Sprint believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Sprint provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in periodic SEC filings, including its 2002 Form 10-K, and you are encouraged to review these filings. 8
About Sprint Sprint is a global integrated communications provider serving more than 26 million customers in over 100 countries. With approximately 70,000 employees worldwide and nearly $27 billion in annual revenues, Sprint is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying state-of-the-art network technologies, including the United States' first nationwide all-digital, fiber-optic network and an award-winning Tier 1 Internet backbone. Sprint provides local voice and data services in 18 states and operates the largest 100-percent digital, nationwide PCS wireless network in the United States. For more information, visit www.sprint.com. For further information, contact Corporate Communications: - - Media Relations: Mark Bonavia 913-794-1088 mark.bonavia@mail.sprint.com - - Investor Relations: Kurt Fawkes 913-794-1126 Investorrelation.sprintcom@mail.sprint.com 9
10
11
Sprint Corporation FOOTNOTES TO CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (1) In the 2003 second quarter, Sprint recorded charges of $36 million in connection with the separation agreements agreed to by Sprint and three former executive officers. This includes a $15 million non-cash charge associated with accounting for modifications to certain terms of stock options granted in prior periods. The charge to the FON Group was $17 million, which reduced income from continuing operations by $10 million, or $0.01 per share. The charge to the PCS Group was $19 million, which increased loss from continuing operations by $12 million, or $0.01 per share. (2) In the 2003 second quarter, the FON Group recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $348 million primarily related to winding down the Global Markets Division's Web hosting business. This includes a $337 million non-cash charge for the impairment of hosting assets and an $11 million charge related to cash requirements for employee terminations. Sprint will record additional charges for facility lease terminations, customer migration, employee termination and other wind-down costs in subsequent periods. The costs of this restructuring are not expected to exceed $475 million in total. The 2003 second quarter charge decreased income from continuing operations by $218 million, or $0.24 per share. (3) In the 2003 first quarter, the PCS Group recorded a charge of $10 million associated with the termination of a software development project. This increased loss from continuing operations by $6 million with no impact on loss per share. In the 2002 first quarter, the PCS Group recorded a $23 million restructuring charge representing the closing of five PCS call centers, as well as additional steps to reduce operating costs in its PCS business units. This charge was offset by favorable accounting true-ups. In total, the charge and true-ups had no effect on net loss or loss per share. (4) In the 2003 first quarter, the FON Group recorded a $19 million charge reflecting the premiums paid on a debt tender offer. This decreased income from continuing operations by $12 million, or $0.01 per share. (5) In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint recorded a $50 million aggregate charge to settle a securities class action and derivative lawsuit relating to the failed merger with WorldCom. The charge to the FON Group was $24 million, which reduced income from continuing operations by $15 million, or $0.02 per share. The charge to the PCS Group was $26 million, which increased loss from continuing operations by $17 million, or $0.02 per share. (6) In the 2002 second quarter, the FON Group recorded in Other income (expense), net, special charges of $201 million, which reduced income from continuing operations by $216 million, or $0.24 per share. These amounts included a gain from the sale of customer contracts for $40 million with an impact to income from continuing operations of $25 million, or $0.03 per share. Also included is a write-down of an investment due to declining market value of $241 million with the same impact on income from continuing operations, or $0.27 per share. (7) In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint recorded an after-tax gain of $1.3 billion associated with the sale of its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley. Activity in the 2003 second quarter relates to wind-down of the sale. (8) Sprint adopted SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations on January 1, 2003. In the FON Group, the local division historically accrued costs of removal in its depreciation reserves consistent with industry practice. These costs of removal do not meet the SFAS No. 143 definition of an asset retirement obligation. Accordingly, the FON Group recorded a credit of $420 million to remove the accumulated excess cost of removal resulting in a favorable cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $258 million, net of tax. The ongoing impact of this accounting change is expected to increase FON Group's net income through reduced depreciation expense by less than $15 million annually. (9) As the effects of including the incremental shares associated with options, restricted stock units and ESPP shares are antidilutive, both basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share reflect the same calculation in these consolidated statements of operations of the PCS Group. (10) As the effects of including the incremental shares associated with options, restricted stock units and ESPP shares are antidilutive, they are not included in the weighted average common shares outstanding for the PCS Group. 12
13
14
15
16
17
18


