FILE:S/S-8K-20030610175704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) June 10, 2003 SPRINT CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Kansas 1-04721 48-0457967 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (I.R.S.Employer Identification No.) 6200 Sprint Parkway, Overland Park, Kansas 66251 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (913) 624-3000 (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) P. O. Box 11315, Kansas City, Missouri 64112 (Mailing address of principal executive offices)
Item 5. Other Events. On June 10, 2003, the registrant ("Sprint") announced that it would take second quarter charges resulting from its decision to wind down its hosting business and from executive separation agreements. The press release was as follows: Sprint Announces Second Quarter Charges Resulting from Decision to Wind Down its Hosting Business, Executive Separation Agreements OVERLAND PARK, Kan. - June 10, 2003 - Sprint (NYSE: FON, PCS) today announced it expects to report an approximate 20-cents-per- share charge against its FON Group earnings in the second quarter related to winding down its Web hosting business. The company also expects to report a 1-cent-per-share charge in the quarter against both FON Group and PCS Group earnings related to separation agreements for three former executives. The hosting actions are expected to result in pre-tax charges ranging in the aggregate from $400 million to $475 million. These charges include approximately $300 million related to the impairment of hosting assets, with the remainder related to expected cash requirements for facility lease terminations, customer migration, employee termination, and other wind-down costs. The asset impairment charges will be recorded in the 2003 second quarter and the remaining charges will be recognized in subsequent periods as the company executes plans related to migrating hosting customers to other providers. The decision to wind down the hosting business reflects an ongoing evaluation of the company's strategic direction by Sprint's new executive management team. The Global Markets Group will continue to focus on strategic IP-related opportunities. For the 12 months ending March 31, 2003, hosting activities contributed approximately $60 million in revenue and diluted FON Group earnings by approximately 10 cents per share. "Sprint's priorities have clearly been articulated and include growing top-line revenue and protecting and improving the company's bottom line," said Howard Janzen, president, Global Markets Group. "Those priorities require us constantly to monitor and review which areas make both economic and strategic sense to pursue on behalf of customers, investors and shareholders." Specifically, Sprint: o Plans to transition current hosting customers to preferred third-party providers or strategic partners under a migration plan to meet the critical needs of customers. o Will no longer pursue direct sales of hosting, including managed hosting and collocation services, to enterprise business customers. Sprint's direct sales force will continue to focus on aggressively selling IP-related products and services that are critical to hosting, such as managed services and network transport on its Tier 1 IP backbone. o Will phase out operations at eight Sprint E|Solutions Centers once the customer migration plan has been completed. These centers are located in Atlanta; Boston; Dallas; Denver; Los Angeles; New York City; Sacramento, Calif.; and Santa Clara, Calif. 1
o Plans to transition two Sprint E|Solutions Centers in the Kansas City area and Reston, Va., to corporate data centers that also support other Sprint network capabilities. The hosting actions are expected to affect approximately 500 employees over the course of the customer migration plan. Most of this reduction in force is expected to be completed by the end of 2003. Sprint also will recognize in the 2003 second quarter pre-tax charges of approximately $36 million in connection with separation agreements agreed to by Sprint and William T. Esrey, former chairman and chief executive officer; Ronald T. LeMay, former president and chief operating officer; and J. Richard Devlin, former executive vice president - general counsel, external affairs and corporate secretary. The charges include $15 million of non-cash expense associated with accounting for modifications to certain terms of stock options granted in prior periods, as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." Most of the FON options have exercise prices that are approximately two times the current market prices, while most of the PCS options have exercise prices that are approximately five times the current market prices. The charge to earnings in the second quarter will be approximately one cent per share each for the FON Group and the PCS Group. The agreements for Messrs. Esrey and Devlin will be filed with the SEC with a Form 8-K. Mr. LeMay's agreement was filed with the SEC on May 14, 2003. Over the next four quarters, the company will also recognize pre- tax charges of $6 million related to the consulting and non- compete components of the separation agreements. Cautionary Statement regarding forward-looking information This news release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of securities laws. The statements in this news release regarding the business outlook and expected performance as well as other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "believe," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are estimates and projections reflecting management's judgment and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, Sprint has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth, pricing, costs to acquire customers and to provide services, the timing of various events and the economic environment. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements include: o extent and duration of the current economic downturn; o the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which Sprint operates; o the effects of mergers and consolidations within the telecommunications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the telecommunications industry; o the uncertainties related to the outcome of bankruptcies affecting the telecommunications industry; o the uncertainties related to Sprint's investments; o the impact of any unusual items resulting from ongoing evaluations of Sprint's business strategies; 2
o the impact of new and emerging technologies on Sprint's business; o the possibility of one or more of the markets in which Sprint competes being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes including the impact of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), or other external factors over which Sprint has no control; and o other risks referenced from time to time in Sprint's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Sprint believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of this release. Sprint is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this release. Sprint provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in periodic SEC filings, including its 2002 Form 10-K, and you are encouraged to review these filings. About Sprint Sprint is a global communications company serving more than 26 million business and residential customers in over 70 countries. With approximately 72,000 employees worldwide and nearly $27 billion in annual revenues, Sprint is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying state-of-the-art network technologies, including the United States' first nationwide all- digital, fiber-optic network and an award-winning Tier 1 Internet backbone. Sprint provides local voice and data services in 18 states and operates the largest 100-percent digital, nationwide PCS wireless network in the United States. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. Exhibits 99(a)Letter Agreement dated May 12, 2003 and Full and Final General Release effective May 12, 2003, between Sprint Corporation and J. Richard Devlin. 99(b)Separation Agreement dated as of May 12, 2003, by and among Sprint Corporation, Sprint/United Management Company and William T. Esrey. 3
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. SPRINT CORPORATION Date: June 10, 2003 By: /s/ Michael T. Hyde Michael T. Hyde, Assistant Secretary 4
EXHIBIT INDEX No. Description 99(a)Letter Agreement dated May 12, 2003 and Full and Final General Release effective May 12, 2003, between Sprint Corporation and J. Richard Devlin. 99(b)Separation Agreement dated as of May 12, 2003, by and among Sprint Corporation, Sprint/United Management Company and William T. Esrey.

Exhibit 99(a) May 12, 2003 Mr. J. Richard Devlin 12300 Catalina Street Leawood, KS 66209-2214 Dear Rich: I want to personally thank you for the leadership you have provided Sprint over the past 16 years. Your loyalty and dedication, as well as your personal talents, have contributed to many successes we have achieved as a company. This letter confirms our recent discussions and details the compensation, benefits, and other arrangements in connection with your termination of employment with Sprint. Below are the details of our agreement: o Resignations. You confirm by this letter that as of April 18, 2003, you resigned as an officer of Sprint and from all positions as a director or officer of any Sprint direct or indirect subsidiary and from all other positions you held on committees or otherwise with respect to your employment with Sprint. o Base Salary. Your current annual base salary of $446,786 will continue for a period of 27 months (your "separation period") from April 19, 2003, until July 18, 2005 (your "separation date"). Your separation date will be treated as your termination date under our benefit plans unless noted otherwise below. Continuation of your salary during this period will discharge Sprint's obligation to you with respect to any accrued but unused vacation time and any embedded or other vacation time earned by you. We will continue payments to you on the same payroll frequency as during your employment, subject to changes applicable to Sprint employees generally. o Consulting Services. During the first nine months of your separation period until January 18, 2004, you agree to provide consulting services to Sprint at times mutually convenient to you and the company, on a reasonable, as needed, on-call basis and, at the request of Sprint, you will participate in various external activities and events for the benefit of Sprint. During this time, if we ask you to provide consulting services, we will reimburse you for your reasonable out-of-pocket expenses but pay no fee beyond the benefits set forth in this letter. After January 18, 2004, through your separation date, you agree to make yourself reasonably available for similar consulting services at a per-diem rate equal to 1/250th of your base salary ($1,787 per day), plus reasonable out-of-pocket expenses. o Management Incentive Plan (MIP). Your prorated opportunity under the MIP for the first four months of 2003 is $118,333 and the amount paid will be based upon Sprint's actual 2003 performance results. During your separation period, your MIP payout will be $59,167 for the last eight months of 2003, $88,750 for 2004 and $51,771 for the first seven months of 2005. These MIP payouts will be paid in cash at the same time as MIP payments are made for Sprint employees for each performance year.
J. Richard Devlin Page 2 o Equity Compensation. Your separation date will be treated as your "Termination Date" for purposes of vesting of options under the 1990 Stock Option Plan and the Management Incentive Stock Option Plan. We will also treat your separation date as your termination date for purposes of vesting in restricted stock or restricted stock units you have received as compensation. On your separation date, we will treat you as having terminated for reasons of early retirement. None of the equity-based awards will receive accelerated vesting on your termination date. Your rights under the options, restricted stock, and other equity compensation will be governed by the terms of the applicable awards and plans. We will not award you any additional stock options or other equity compensation during your separation period. o Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP). You will not receive any payout under the LTIP for any performance periods beginning or ending within your separation period. o Executive Perquisites. You will be eligible for reimbursement of miscellaneous services incurred prior the beginning of your separation period up to your $12,000 maximum annual benefit. Sprint agrees to allow you the use of its membership at the Hallbrook Country Club for the remainder of your separation period as long as you make timely payment of all membership dues and expenses associated with the membership and its use. You agree that you will not be eligible during your separation period for any other executive perquisites, including any automobile allowance, long distance services, 1or miscellaneous services allowance. o Disability Benefits. You will not be eligible for short and long-term disability benefits during your separation period. o Outplacement Fees. You have agreed that Sprint will not provide you payment or reimbursement for outplacement services. o Other Benefits. With respect to all other employee benefit plans of Sprint, we will treat you as an employee receiving severance benefits during your separation period in accordance with Sprint's policy, and your treatment under those plans will be governed by the terms of those plans, as amended for Sprint employees generally from time to time throughout your separation period. o Noncompete, Non-Solicitation. You agree that the Non-Compete Period under your Agreement Regarding Special Compensation and Post Employment Restrictive Covenants dated August 8, 1994 (the "Non-Compete"), is extended to end on your separation date and that you will continue to abide by all employee covenants contained in the noncompete agreement. By accepting this letter, you agree also not to induce our employees or customers to terminate their relationship with Sprint during your separation period. This letter incorporates by reference, and you confirm your agreement to abide by, your covenants set forth in Sections 11 through 14 of the Non-Compete (the "Restrictive Covenants"), as extended hereby. You agree that you will receive no benefits under the Non-Compete as amended above other than those set out in this letter. o Dispute Resolution and Remedies. This letter hereby incorporates by reference Section 9 and 15 of the Non-Compete dealing with dispute resolution and remedies. In addition, you agree that if you breach any of the Restrictive Covenants, in addition to whatever other remedies Sprint may have, Sprint shall cease payment of Base Salary continuation, MIP payments, consulting fees, and other perquisites and benefits provided for in this letter. If you breach any of the Restrictive Covenants, April 19, 2003, shall be deemed to be your separation date for purposes of future benefits hereunder and under all employment benefit plans, agreements, and arrangements. 2
J. Richard Devlin Page 3 o Payment to Estate. If you should die before payments hereunder are complete, we will make the remaining payments to your estate except that, to the extent specific plans address payments after the participant's death, the terms of the specific plans will control payments. The attached Full and Final General Release ("Release Agreement") incorporates the terms set forth in this letter and is also an essential part of our arrangement. The validity of the Release Agreement and this letter agreement are mutually dependent on the execution of each other, are being given in consideration of each other, and neither agreement is valid unless both are signed. As set forth in the attached Release Agreement, you have up to 21 days to consider this proposal, but you may accept it sooner if you wish. If you wish to accept this proposal, please sign and date this letter in the space provided below and return it to Ned Holland. If you have any questions regarding either this letter or the attachments, please do not hesitate to contact Ned Holland or me. Best regards, Sprint Corporation /s/ Gary D. Forsee by: Gary D. Forsee its: Chief Executive Officer Agreed to and Accepted: /s/ J. Richard Devlin J. Richard Devlin May 12, 2003 Date Attachment
Full And Final General Release This Full and Final General Release ("Release Agreement"), effective the 12th day of May, 2003, is made by Sprint Corporation, a Kansas corporation, (Sprint Corporation and the subsidiaries of Sprint Corporation are collectively referred to herein as "Employer") and James Richard Devlin ("Devlin"), (collectively referred to as the "Parties"). Recitals 1. Devlin has been employed by Employer as Executive Vice President--Law, External Affairs, and Corporate Security. 2. Employer and Devlin have agreed to the terms for Devlin's cessation of employment and early retirement pursuant to a Letter Agreement dated May 12th, 2003, ("Letter Agreement"), to which this Release Agreement is attached, and is part of, this Release Agreement. 3. The Parties wish to confirm their agreements regarding such cessation of employment and early retirement in writing. Agreement In consideration of the mutual promises contained in this Release Agreement and the Letter Agreement and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which the Parties acknowledge, the Parties hereby agree as follows: 1. General Release Devlin, for himself and his attorneys, representatives, heirs, executors, administrators, legatees, successors, and assigns, hereby waives, releases, and discharges Employer and all its predecessors, successors, affiliates, partners, officers, directors, agents, attorneys, and employees, each in both their individual and official capacities (collectively, the "Released Parties"), of and from all claims, demands, actions, causes of action, suits, damages, losses, expenses, controversies, and other liabilities or damages of any nature (regardless of whether they relate to action or inaction) arising prior to or on the date hereof or arising as a result of an occurrence that took place prior to or on the date hereof, including but not limited to, any claims arising from or relating in any way to Devlin's employment and the termination of his employment with Employer, the Agreement Regarding Special Compensation and Post Employment Restrictive Covenants, dated August 8, 1994 (the "Non-Compete"), the Contingency Employment Agreement, dated January 22, 1990, and amended as of June 30, 1999 (the "CEA"), and any claims arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, excepting only (1) any claims under the Indemnification Agreement, dated April 14, 1987 (the "Indemnification Agreement"), (2) any claims under applicable state workers' compensation and unemployment statutes, (3) any claims arising under this Release Agreement, and (4) any claims under the Letter Agreement, including any benefit plans to the extent provided therein (all such excepted claims, "Permissible Claims"). Devlin represents and warrants, with the understanding that his representation and warranty is material to this Release Agreement, that neither he nor any person or entity acting on his behalf has requested arbitration or asserted with any federal, state, or local judicial or administrative agency or other body, any
claim based on or arising out of or alleged to be suffered in or as a consequence of Devlin's employment with Employer, the termination of his employment, or his contacts and relationships with the Released Parties. Further, Devlin represents and warrants, with the understanding that his representation and warranty are material to this Release Agreement, that he has no current intention to and will not assert, in any manner or by any means, any such claims (other than Permissible Claims) before any federal, state or local judicial or administrative agency or other body, or to request arbitration of same. If any such claim is asserted in the future by Devlin or any person or entity authorized to do so on his behalf, Devlin agrees that this Release Agreement is a total and complete bar to Devlin's re-employment or recovery of any sum or amount whatsoever from the Released Parties, whether labeled "award," "liability," "damages," "judgment," "back pay," "wages," "fine," or otherwise, resulting directly or indirectly from any arbitration, lawsuit, remedy, charge, or complaint, whether brought privately by Devlin, or on his behalf, or at his request. 2. Mutuality of Release and Letter Agreement The Parties agree that this Release Agreement and the Letter Agreement are void if both documents are not executed or if either document is later revoked by Devlin within the 7 days provided for below. 3. Cooperation in Litigation and Indemnity Devlin agrees that he will reasonably cooperate with Employer in the prosecution or defense of all claims, charges, investigations, lawsuits or legal proceedings in which Sprint deems his assistance or testimony to be beneficial to Employer. Without limiting the foregoing, Devlin agrees that he will not communicate with anyone regarding such claims or proceedings except communications with Employer's attorneys or outside counsel retained by Employer or communications to which said attorneys or outside counsel will be privy. Devlin agrees that he will cooperate with Employer in providing whatever factual information he may have relative to any claim, charge, investigation, lawsuit, or other proceeding brought by or against Employer with which he may have familiarity as a result of his employment with Employer or otherwise. Devlin agrees to appear and to testify on behalf of Employer in all such matters without the requirement of a subpoena. Employer agrees to reimburse Devlin any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses he incurs as a result of performing these services. Devlin and Employer agree that any such services provided will be treated as consulting services provided under the Letter Agreement and be eligible for compensation thereunder in accordance with its terms. Employer hereby agrees to extend the coverage of the Indemnification Agreement to cover Devlin's activities for Employer pursuant to this paragraph or pursuant to the Letter Agreement. The extension shall apply as long as and at any time Devlin is required to provide cooperation under this Section or services under the Letter Agreement. The Parties agree that the obligations under this paragraph shall survive and continue to be binding upon Devlin after Employers' obligations have been performed under the Letter Agreement. The extension of coverage of the Indemnification Agreement will continue to apply to the actions taken by Devlin in fulfillment of his obligations under this Section or the Letter Agreement after the conclusion of any matters with respect to which he has provided consulting or cooperation. 2
4. Assignment Employer may, upon prior notice to Devlin, freely assign its rights, liabilities, and obligations hereunder and under the Letter Agreement to any affiliated legal entity which is a successor, subsidiary, or affiliate of Employer, without his consent. However, as between Employer and Devlin, no such assignment will relieve Employer from its obligations hereunder or under the Letter Agreement without the express written consent of Devlin. This Release Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of any such assignee or successor. 5. Governing Law; Survivorship The validity, interpretation, and enforcement of this Release Agreement and the Letter Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Kansas without giving effect to its conflicts of laws principles. The Letter Agreement, and this Release Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to Devlin's separation of employment, and they supersede all previous or contemporaneous negotiations, commitments, statements, and writings regarding the terms of Devlin's employment or separation from employment, including without limitation, the CEA and Non-Compete, except to the extent set forth in the Letter Agreement and this Release Agreement. 6. Notices All notices and other communications required or permitted under this Release Agreement must be in writing and either hand-delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and addressed as follows: If to Sprint: Sprint Corporation 6200 Sprint Parkway Overland Park, Kansas 66251 Attn: Executive Vice President & General Counsel If to Devlin: 12300 Catalina Street Leawood, KS 66209-2214 7. Binding Effect, Consideration, and Revocation Devlin agrees that he has carefully read this paragraph, the rest of this Release Agreement, and the Letter Agreement, that he knows and understands the contents thereof, and that he executes both documents of his own free will. Devlin further states that he has been advised to consult with an attorney, that he has consulted with an attorney regarding these documents, and that he fully understands the terms, conditions, and the final and binding effect of these documents. Devlin acknowledges that he has been given a period of at least 21 days within which to consider these documents before signing them. Furthermore, it is agreed that Devlin will have the right to revoke this Release Agreement and Letter Agreement by written notice to Employer within the seven days immediately following their execution, and that the Release Agreement and Letter Agreement will not become enforceable until that period has expired. If this Release Agreement or Letter Agreement is revoked by Devlin, he agrees to return all consideration and benefits provided to him by Employer to which he would not be entitled absent the Letter Agreement and this Release Agreement. 3
8. Non-Disparagement The parties mutually agree to refrain from making any statements about each other or the Released Parties that would disparage or reflect unfavorably upon the image or reputation of the other or of any Released Party, except that activities performed through court or arbitration processes shall not be considered a violation of this covenant. Public statements, oral or written, outside such a litigation context are not permissible if they contain remarks disparaging the other party. /s/ J. Richard Devlin J. Richard Devlin Sprint Corporation /s/ Gary D. Forsee By: Gary D. Forsee Its: Chief Executive Officer 4

Exhibit 99(b) SEPARATION AGREEMENT THIS SEPARATION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of May 12, 2003, by and among SPRINT CORPORATION, a Kansas corporation ("Sprint"), SPRINT/UNITED MANAGEMENT COMPANY, a Kansas corporation and subsidiary of Sprint ("SUMC") (Sprint, SUMC and the subsidiaries of Sprint are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"), and WILLIAM T. ESREY (the "Executive"). Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in Section 8 of this Agreement. Recitals WHEREAS, the Company and Executive have previously entered into an Employment Agreement dated as of February 26, 2001 (the "Prior Agreement"); WHEREAS, Executive has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Sprint until March 19, 2003, and has been serving as the Chairman of its Board of Directors (the "Board"); WHEREAS, the Company and Executive have agreed as hereinafter set forth with respect to the resignation of Executive's employment with the Company and from the Board; WHEREAS, the Company desires to retain the benefit of Executive's knowledge of the Company's business and industry and to retain Executive to provide consulting services to the Company's Chief Executive Officer following the Effective Date by establishing the arrangement set forth in this Agreement; WHEREAS, in furtherance of the foregoing, the Company and Executive have determined that this Agreement shall supersede and replace the Prior Agreement in all respects; WHEREAS, the Company and Executive have agreed as set forth herein with respect to his compensation in connection with his resignations; WHEREAS, in consideration for the respective benefits to be received by the Parties under this Agreement, (i) Executive desires to release the Company from certain current or potential liabilities, and (ii) the Company desires to release Executive from certain current or potential liabilities, all as set forth herein: NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and mutual covenants herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which consideration are mutually acknowledged by the parties, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1. RESIGNATIONS Executive confirms his resignation as an officer of the Company and as a member of the Board, in each case effective as of the date first set forth above. Executive hereby resigns as an employee of the Company effective May 31, 2003 (the "Effective Date"). Notwithstanding such resignations, as of the Effective Date and subject to review by the Board in its sole discretion, Executive will occupy the position of Chairman Emeritus of the Company. Executive agrees to execute all documents that are reasonably necessary to implement the resignations required under this Section 1, provided that all such documents are consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and do not impose any greater duties or obligations on Executive than those contemplated by this Agreement. 2. SEPARATION BENEFITS AND CONSULTING SERVICES In consideration of Executive's agreements hereunder, the Company agrees to make the payments and provide the compensation and benefits set forth in this Section 2 (the "Separation Benefits"). Except as expressly provided herein, the Separation Benefits supersede and replace any and all benefits to which Executive might otherwise be or become entitled to under the Company's compensation and employee benefit plans (including severance plans and arrangements) and the Prior Agreement, other than benefit plans subject to Section 401(a) of the Code. Executive's rights with respect to any compensation previously deferred by him under Sprint's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan shall be governed by the terms and conditions of that plan and neither Executive's termination of employment nor anything provided in this Agreement shall cause a forfeiture of Executive's rights to such deferred compensation. (a) Accrued Obligations. Within ten business days after the Effective Date, the Company will pay Executive's accrued and unpaid base salary and accrued and unused vacation days, all through the Effective Date (subject to applicable withholdings). In addition, in accordance with the Company's policies and procedures, the Company shall promptly reimburse Executive for eligible business expenses incurred by him on or before the Effective Date. (b) Compensation Continuation; Pro-Rata Bonus. (i) The Company will pay Executive (or to his estate following his death) during the eighteen month period commencing on the Effective Date (the "Payment Period") compensation continuation payable in eighteen equal monthly installments of $270,833 each, the first installment to be paid June 30, 2003, and the last installment to be paid on November 30, 2004 ("Continuation Benefits"). 2
(ii) Executive shall be entitled to a payment in lieu of a bonus for 2003 under the Short-Term Incentive Plan of $895,833, payable in a lump sum at the time bonuses for 2003 are otherwise payable under the Short-Term Incentive Plan. (c) Long-Term Incentive Plan. Executive shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Long-Term Incentive Plan except as provided in Section 2(d). (d) Stock Options. The Options granted to Executive pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Prior Agreement shall become immediately exercisable on the Effective Date. All other Options held by Executive on the Effective Date shall continue to vest during the Payment Period. Subject to the provisions of this Section 2(d), all Options shall be governed following the Effective Date by the terms thereof and the applicable plan pursuant to which such Options were granted. For purposes of vesting and post-employment exercise of options, Executive shall be treated as having terminated employment with the Company on the last day of the Payment Period by reason of Normal Retirement under the Option Plans. (e) Retirement Benefits. (i) Executive shall be eligible for a benefit payable under the Retirement Plan. Executive's benefit under the Retirement Plan shall be based on Executive's period of employment through the Effective Date and assuming for this purpose that (1) Executive's employment continued through the Payment Period and, therefore, Executive had 18 months additional age and service credit, (2) all accrued benefits under the Retirement Plan are fully vested, and (3) Executive's Continuation Benefits and Short-Term Incentive Plan benefit payable under Section 2(b)(ii) constitute compensation taken into account under the Retirement Plan. (ii) In lieu of Executive's right to receive certain benefits under the Prior Agreement, the amount of each annual benefit payment, payable as a single life annuity, shall be increased by $700,000. (iii) Executive may elect to begin payment of the Retirement Plan Benefit beginning as of the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Effective Date, without reduction for early commencement. (iv) The normal form of the Retirement Plan Benefit shall be a single life annuity; provided, however, that Executive may elect to receive his entire Retirement Plan Benefit (the sum of the benefits described in Sections 2(e)(i) and 2(e)(ii) above) in any one of the annuity forms of benefit available under the Company's tax- qualified defined benefit plan, 3
as elected by Executive pursuant to procedures established by the Company. (v) The determination of Executive's benefit under the Retirement Plan shall be performed by the Company's pension actuary, and the calculation shall be binding on the parties hereto. For purposes of converting annuity payments from one form to another actuarially equivalent form, actuarial equivalence will be determined using the actuarial assumptions used in the Company's tax- qualified defined benefit pension plan for such purpose. (f) Key Management Benefit Plan. For all purposes under the KMBP Executive shall be deemed to have terminated employment at the end of the Payment Period and will be eligible for retirement under the KMBP at the end of the Payment Period. (g) Certain Welfare Benefits. During the Payment Period, the Company shall continue to provide to Executive on the same basis the medical, dental and life insurance benefits, other than long term- disability and short-term disability benefits, that Executive was receiving or was entitled to receive as of the Effective Date; provided, however, that if Executive becomes eligible to receive any such benefits through full time employment during the Payment Period, Executive's entitlement to benefit continuation under this Section 2(g) shall immediately cease, subject to Executive's rights to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company's welfare benefit plans by paying the applicable premium therefor. (h) Outplacement. During the Payment Period, the Company will pay for outplacement counseling by a firm selected by the Company for the six-month period in the Payment Period beginning on the first anniversary of the Effective Date in an amount not to exceed $15,000, Executive's rights to which shall cease upon his becoming employed. Executive may elect to receive a $10,000 lump sum payment from the Company in lieu of seeking any outplacement counseling under this Section 2(h). (i) Automobile Allowance. During the Payment Period the Company will provide Executive with an automobile allowance equivalent to that Executive was receiving or was entitled to receive on the Effective Date. (j) Consulting Services (i) When and as requested by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company during the Consulting Period, the Executive will provide consulting and advice ("Consulting Services") to the Company and will participate in various external activities and events for the benefit of the 4
Company on the terms and conditions provided in this Section 2(j). The Executive agrees to make himself available to the Company for such services; provided, however, that after the first anniversary of the Effective Date such required availability shall not exceed thirty (30) days per year. The Executive will perform Consulting Services under this Section 2(j) as an independent contractor. The Company agrees that Executive will be considered an agent of the Company while performing Consulting Services under this Section 2(j) for purposes of indemnification under the Indemnification Agreement between the Executive and the Company and under the Company's charter and by-laws and applicable insurance coverages. (ii) The Company will pay the Executive a per diem consulting fee of $4,400 for each day the Executive renders Consulting Services to the Company during that portion of the Consulting Period beginning on the first anniversary of the Effective Date. During the Consulting Period the Company will also provide Executive access to appropriate office facilities at a mutually agreeable site, including office and secretarial support, communications support, two club memberships (which shall not include any initiation fees or charges), and a "miscellaneous services" allowance as provided in 6.0 of Sprint Executive Perquisites, E00/E07, in each case comparable to those previously provided to Executive. In addition, during the Consulting Period, the Company will pay for an annual physical examination for Executive from a physician of Executive's choice in an annual amount not to exceed $2,000, adjusted annually for any increase in the Consumer Price Index - "All Urban Consumers, Medical Care Services." Following the end of the Consulting Period, the Company will continue to provide such an office and secretarial support for Executive's lifetime and will provide to Executive such communication services comparable to those communications services that are normally made available to retired senior executive officers of the Company. The Company will also reimburse Executive, upon the receipt of appropriate documentation, for reasonable travel and living expenses that he incurs in providing Consulting Services at the request of the Company's Chief Executive Officer or, pursuant to Section 2(j)(iii) at the request of the Executive Steering Committee. Subject only to Executive's compliance, to the best of his ability, with his commitments set forth in Sections 2(j)(i) and (ii), the Company's obligations set forth in this Section 2(j)(ii) are unconditional and irrevocable and shall apply irrespective of the Executive's incapacitation, before or after his retirement, to perform services hereunder. Executive hereby renounces and waives in all respect any and all rights or entitlements to private aircraft usage provided by or paid for by the 5
Company, except when such usage is offered or provided by the Company in its sole discretion. (iii) During the first 12 months following the Effective Date, Executive agrees that as part of his consulting services, he will make himself available at the request of the Company to provide service to the Company on its Executive Steering Committee for purposes of considering certain transactions and ensuring compliance by the Company's CEO with restrictions on his ability to do so, all in accordance with the Executive Steering Committee's "Rules of Engagement." As additional consideration for Executive's agreement and services during this 12-month period and only for so long as Executive is able to perform consulting services in accordance with this Section 2(j)(iii), the Company agrees to pay Executive a monthly consulting fee of $270,833 per month, payable on the last day of each month, with the first payment due on June 30, 2003, and the last payment due on May 31, 2004. During this time, Executive will not be entitled to receive the per diem fee set forth in clause 2(j)(ii) above. Should Executive die or become disabled (as determined under the Company's long term disability plan then applicable to senior executives of the Company) during such 12-month period, as consideration for Executive's agreement to provide such consulting services the Company shall pay to the Executive or his estate, as the case may be, a lump sum amount in cash equal to the sum of (x) the full consulting fee for the month in which such death or disability occurs, and (y) one half of the sum of the remaining monthly consulting fee payments that would have otherwise been payable to Executive under this Section 2(j)(iii). (k) Benefits to Cease upon Breach of Restrictive Covenants. In all events, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if Executive breaches any of the Restrictive Covenants (i) Executive shall cease to have any rights to: (A) any unpaid Continuation Benefits; (B) any unpaid benefits under Section 2(b)(ii); (C) the Options granted to Executive pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Prior Agreement and all other Options not vested on the Effective Date shall immediately terminate and be cancelled; and (D) any unpaid compensation and benefits to be provided or paid to Executive, as the case may be, under Sections 2(g) (except with respect to COBRA continuation), (h), (i) and (j) hereof and (ii) the unpaid Retirement Plan Benefit will be reduced by the incremental Retirement Plan benefits provided to Executive pursuant Sections 2(e)(i)(1)-(3), (ii) and (iii) hereof. In all cases, the Company's rights under Section 7(a) shall continue. (l) Other Provisions Regarding Payments and Benefits. 6
(i) Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment and, except as expressly provided herein, there shall be no offset against amounts due Executive under this Agreement on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that he may obtain. (ii) If, for any period during which Executive is entitled to continued benefits under Section 2, the Company reasonably determines that Executive cannot participate in any Company sponsored welfare benefit plan because he is not actively performing services for the Company, then, in lieu of providing benefits under any such plan the Company shall provide comparable benefits or the cash equivalent of the cost thereof increased, on a fully tax-adjusted basis, by the amount of all income taxes incurred by Executive and Executive's dependents as the case may be to Executive and, if applicable, Executive's dependents through other arrangements. (iii) Executive's rights under this Agreement shall be in lieu of any benefits that may be otherwise payable to or on behalf of Executive pursuant to the terms of any severance pay arrangement of the Company or any other similar arrangement of the Company providing benefits upon termination of employment. (m) The Company shall reimburse Executive for reasonable legal and other professional fees and expenses incurred by him in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000. 3. RELEASE AND WAIVER OF CLAIMS. (a) In exchange for this Agreement, Executive (on behalf of Executive and anyone claiming through or on behalf of Executive), releases the Company and each of the Company's subsidiaries and other Affiliates (as the term "Affiliates" is defined by Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act), its and their successors and assigns and all of their past and present employees, officers, directors, stockholders (the "Company Group") and their agents and attorneys from any and all claims and potential claims, whether known or unknown and whether or not matured or contingent, demands and causes of action that Executive has or may have had against any of them arising out of, related to or concerning Executive's service or employment with the Company and the termination thereof, including claims not currently known to or contemplated by the parties, to the maximum extent permitted by law. This release includes, but is not limited to, any and all claims, demands and causes of action which are related to or concern: the Prior Agreement; service as a director or officer of the Company; Executive's acquisition or ownership of Company securities or options 7
thereon; Executive's employment and the prospective termination thereof as contemplated hereby; Tax Liabilities; attorneys' fees or costs; discrimination under local, state or federal law; the Missouri Service Letter Statute; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; the Civil Rights Act of 1991; the Americans With Disabilities Act; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act; the Family and Medical Leave Act; severance pay; tort claims including invasion of privacy, defamation, fraud, and infliction of emotional distress; disputed wage claims; and all other claims, demands, and causes of action, whether they arise in the United States of America or elsewhere, to the maximum extent permitted by law. This release does not apply to (a) any rights or benefits as set forth in this Agreement or (b) any rights to indemnification to which Executive is entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, the Indemnification Agreement or any other applicable insurance or agreement now in effect relating to directors', officers' and consultant's liability or (c) any claims Executive may have against any parties other than the Company Group related to or arising out of any Tax Liabilities, tax planning, tax preparation or any personal financial advice. (b) In exchange for this Agreement, the Company (on behalf of the Company and the Company's subsidiaries and other Affiliates, their successors and assigns and anyone claiming through or on behalf of the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries or other Affiliates, their successors and assigns) releases Executive, Executive's heirs, executors, personal representatives, attorneys, agents, successors and assigns, from any and all claims and potential claims, known or unknown and whether or not matured or contingent, demands and causes of action that they have or may have had against Executive or them arising out of, related to, or concerning Executive's service or employment with the Company and the termination thereof, including claims, demands, and causes of action not currently known or contemplated by the parties, in each case, to the maximum extent permitted by law. This release includes, but is not limited to, any and all claims, demands and causes of action that are related to or concern: Executive's service as a director or officer of the Company; Executive's acquisition or ownership of the Company's securities or options thereon, the Prior Agreement; and Executive's employment and the prospective termination thereof as contemplated herein, except that this Release does not release Executive from Executive's obligations under this Agreement. This release does not apply to any claim, right or cause of action that is (i) asserted in, relates to or arises from the subject matter at issue in, the derivative action styled Amalgamated Bank v. LeMay, et al., No. 00-CV-230077 (such subject matter, the "Issues") or (ii) related to any Tax Liabilities, all of which claims, rights or causes of action are expressly preserved. 8
4. EXECUTIVE COVENANTS (a) Proprietary Information. Executive acknowledges that during the course of his employment and while providing Consulting Services he has learned or developed and will learn or develop Proprietary Information. Executive further acknowledges that unauthorized disclosure or use of such Proprietary Information will cause the Company irreparable harm. Except as required by the Company, Executive shall not at any time following the date hereof directly or indirectly, disclose, publish, communicate, or use on his behalf or another's behalf, any Proprietary Information, and Executive shall cause each of his employees or agents, including any employees or agents providing secretarial or other support in connection with Executive's performance of Consulting Services, if any, to comply with the terms of this Section 4(a) and to execute a non-disclosure agreement satisfactory to the Company. If Executive has any questions about whether particular information is Proprietary Information or subject to a non-disclosure agreement, he shall consult with the Company's General Counsel. Executive also agrees to promptly disclose to the Company any information, ideas, or inventions made or conceived by him that result from or are suggested by services performed by him for the Company during his employment or under this Agreement and to assign to the Company all his rights pertaining to such information, ideas, or inventions. Knowledge or information of any kind disclosed by Executive to the Company shall be deemed to have been disclosed without obligation on the part of the Company to hold the same in confidence, and the Company shall have the full right to use and disclose such knowledge and information without compensation to Executive beyond that specifically provided in this Agreement. (b) Non-Competition. During the Non-Compete Period, Executive shall not engage in Competitive Employment, whether paid or unpaid and whether as a consultant, employee, or otherwise. Executive agrees that because of the worldwide nature of the Company's business, breach of this Agreement by accepting Competitive Employment would irreparably injure the Company and that, therefore, a limited geographic restriction is neither feasible nor appropriate to protect the Company's interests. In the event that during the Non-Compete Period Executive wishes to engage in any activities or enter into any relationship, whether paid or unpaid, as a consultant, employee or otherwise, which might constitute Competitive Employment, Executive shall be entitled to submit to the Company a written description of such activities or relationship, as the case may be. As soon as is reasonably commercially practicable after the Company's receipt of such description, the Company shall advise Executive in writing as to whether or not the Company regards such engagement or activity as constituting Competitive Employment under this Agreement. 9
(c) Inducement of Employees, Customers and Others. During the Non-Compete Period and Consulting Period, Executive may not directly or indirectly solicit, induce, or encourage any employee, consultant, agent, customer, vendor, or other parties doing business with the Company to terminate their employment, agency, or other relationship with the Company or to render services for or transfer business to any Competitor, and Executive shall not initiate discussion with any such person for any such purpose or authorize or knowingly cooperate with the taking of any such actions by any other individual or entity on behalf of the Competitor. (d) No Adverse Actions. During the Non-Compete Period and Consulting Period, Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, in any manner, solicit, request, advise, or assist any other person or entity to (i) undertake any action that would be reasonably likely to, or is intended to, result in a change in control of the Company, or (ii) seek to control in any material manner the Board. (e) Return of Property. Executive shall, upon his Effective Date, return to the Company all property of the Company in his possession not necessary to his services during the Consulting Period, including all notes, reports, sketches, plans, published memoranda or other documents, whether in hard copy or in electronic form, created, developed, generated, received, or held by Executive during his employment, concerning or related to the Company's business, whether containing or relating to Proprietary Information or not. Executive shall not remove, by e-mail, by removal of computer discs or hard drives, or by other means, any of the above property containing Proprietary Information, or reproductions or copies thereof, or any apparatus from the Company's premises without the Company's written consent. At the end of the Consulting Period, Executive shall return to the Company all other property of the Company in his possession. (f) Mutual Nondisparagement. Executive agrees to refrain from making at any time after the Effective Date any statements about the Company or its employees, officers, or directors that would disparage or reflect unfavorably upon the image or reputation of the Company or any such employee, officer, or director. The Company agrees to refrain from making at any time after the Effective Date any statements about Executive that would disparage or reflect unfavorably upon the image or reputation of the Executive. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no statement made by either party in the context of any legal proceeding including, without limitation, any arbitration, administrative or other legal proceeding, shall be deemed to violate the provisions of this Section 4(f). (g) Assistance with Claims. Executive agrees that, consistent with Executive's business and personal affairs, he will assist the Company in the defense of any claims or potential claims that are pending or may be made or 10
threatened to be made against it in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative (a "Proceeding") and will assist the Company in the prosecution of any claims that may be made by the Company in any Proceeding, to the extent that such claims may relate to Executive's services provided under this Agreement. Executive agrees, unless precluded by law, to promptly inform the Company if Executive is asked to participate (or otherwise become involved) in any Proceeding involving such claims or potential claims. Executive also agrees, unless precluded by law, to promptly inform the Company if Executive is asked to assist in any investigation (whether governmental or private) of the Company (or its actions), regardless of whether a lawsuit has then been filed against the Company with respect to such investigation. After the Effective Date the Company agrees to reimburse Executive for all of Executive's reasonable out-of-pocket expenses associated with such assistance, including travel expenses and any attorneys' or consultant's fees and shall, after the first anniversary of the Effective Date, pay for Executive's services hereunder as consulting services provided pursuant to Section 2(j)(ii) of this Agreement. (h) Tax Considerations. Executive acknowledges that no representations have been made to him by the Company, its Affiliates, or other agents or legal counsel regarding the tax implications of any payments made pursuant to this Agreement. All liability for Executive's share of federal, state, and local taxes (including FICA) remains with Executive, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Company, and the Company shall deduct withholdings in the minimum amount required under applicable tax laws, rules or regulations from the consideration payable under this Agreement. 5. NO ADMISSION OF WRONGDOING. This Agreement is not an admission of wrongdoing or liability by Executive, the Company, or any of the individuals or entities referenced in Section 3 above and any and all such wrongdoing or liability is expressly denied. Further, neither the existence of this Agreement nor the terms and conditions hereof may be deemed or construed as a conclusion that Executive has engaged in any wrongdoing. 6. INTEREST ON PAYMENTS If the Company fails to pay any amounts due to Executive under this Agreement as they come due, the Company agrees to pay interest on such amounts at the Applicable Federal Rate plus two percent (2%) per annum. 7. ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES (a) Equitable Remedies. Executive acknowledges that the Company would be irreparably injured by a violation of Sections 4(a) through 4(g) (the 11
"Restrictive Covenants"), and he agrees that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it for any breach or threatened breach, shall be entitled to a preliminary or permanent injunction, temporary restraining order, or other equivalent relief, restraining Executive from any actual or threatened breach of any Restrictive Covenant. If a bond is required to be posted in order for the Company to secure an injunction or other equitable remedy, the parties agree that the bond need not be more than a nominal sum. (b) Resolution of Disputes. Section 11 notwithstanding, all disputes, claims, or controversies arising under or in connection with this Agreement, other than those contemplated by Section 7(a) above, shall be settled exclusively by binding arbitration pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act administered by JAMS/Endispute in the greater Kansas City area in accordance with the then existing JAMS/Endispute Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes, except that the parties agree that the arbitrator is not authorized or empowered to impose punitive damages on either of the parties. If it is determined that any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal, or incapable of being enforced, the arbitrator shall have the authority to modify the provision or term to the minimum extent required to permit enforcement. In the event of such an arbitration proceeding, the Administrator of JAMS/Endispute will appoint the arbitrator. (c) Attorney Fees. If either party seeks to enforce this Agreement and prevails on the merits, the losing party agrees to pay to the prevailing party all reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by the prevailing party in seeking such enforcement. Such payments shall be made within five (5) days after the prevailing party's request for payment accompanied by such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as the losing party reasonably may require. 8. DEFINITIONS As used in the Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below. "Affiliate" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 3. "Agreement" has the meaning accorded such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. "Applicable Federal Rate" means the applicable Federal rate within the meaning of Section 7872 of the Code. "Board" has the meaning accorded such term in the Recitals. 12
"Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and references to sections of the Code include any successor provision. "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board or any successor committee primarily responsible for executive compensation. "Company" has the meaning accorded such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. "Company Group" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 3. "Competitive Employment" means the performance of duties or responsibilities, or the supervision of individuals performing such duties or responsibilities, for a Competitor (i) that are of a similar nature or employ similar professional or technical skills (for example, executive, managerial, marketing, engineering, legal, etc.) to those employed by Executive in his performance of services for the Company at any time during the two years before the Effective Date, (ii) that relate to products or services that are competitive with the Company's products or services with respect to which Executive performed services for the Company at any time during the two years before the Effective Date, or (iii) in the performance of which Proprietary Information to which Executive had access at any time during the two-year period before the Effective Date could be of substantial economic value to the Competitor. "Competitor" has the meaning as hereinafter set forth. Because of the highly competitive, evolving nature of the Company's industry, the identities of companies in competition with the Company are likely to change over time. The following tests, while not exclusive indications of what employment may be competitive, are designed to assist the parties and any court in evaluating whether particular employment is prohibited under this Agreement. "Competitor" means any one or more of the following (i) any Person doing business in the United States or any of its Divisions employing the Executive if the Person or its Division receives at least 15% of its gross operating revenues from providing communications services of any type (for example, voice, data, including Internet, and video), employing any transmission medium (for example, wireline, wireless, or any other technology), over any distance (for example, local, long distance, and distance insensitive services), using any protocol (for example, circuit switched, or packet-based, such as Internet Protocol), or services or capabilities ancillary to such communications services (for example, web hosting and network security services); (ii) any Person doing business in the United States or its Division employing Executive if the Person or its Division receives at least 15% of its gross operating revenue from a line of business in which the Company receives at least 3% of its operating revenues; (iii) any Person doing business in 13
the United States, or its Division employing the Executive, operating for less than 5 years a line of business from which the Company derives at least 3% of its gross operating revenues, notwithstanding such Person's or Division's lack of substantial revenues in such line of business; and (iv) any Person doing business in the United States, or its Division employing the Executive, if the Person or its Division receives at least 15% of its gross operating revenue from a line of business in which the Company has operated for less than 5 years, notwithstanding the Company's lack of substantial revenues in such line of business. For purposes of the foregoing, gross operating revenues of the Company and such other Person shall be those of the Company or such Person, together with their Consolidated Affiliates, but those of any Division employing or proposing to employ the Executive shall be on a stand-alone basis, all measured by the most recent available financial information of both the Company and such other Person or Division at the time the Executive accepts, or proposes to accept, employment with or to otherwise perform services for such Person. If financial information is not publicly available or is inadequate for purposes of applying this definition, the burden shall be on the Executive to demonstrate that such Person is not a Competitor. "Consolidated Affiliate" means, with respect to any person or entity, all affiliates and subsidiaries of such person or entity, if any, with whom the financial statements of such person or entity are required, under generally accepted accounting principles, to be reported on a consolidated basis. "Consulting Period" means the 10 year period beginning on the Effective Date. "Consulting Services" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 2. "Division" means any distinct group or unit organized as a segment or portion of a Person that is devoted to the production, provision, or management of a common product or service or group of related products or services, regardless of whether the group is organized as a legally distinct entity. "Effective Date" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 1. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange of 1934, as amended. "Executive" has the meaning accorded such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. "FON Common Stock" means the Company's FON Common Stock, Series 1, $2.00 par value per share. 14
"Indemnification Agreement" means that certain Indemnification Agreement dated April 14, 1987 between United Telecommunications, Inc., a Kansas corporation and a predecessor of the Company, and Executive. "Incentive Plans" means the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Short-Term Incentive Plan. "Issues" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 3. "KMBP" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 2. "Long-Term Incentive Plan" means the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan, together with successor or other plans specifically approved for this purpose by the Committee. "Non-Compete Period" means the 36-month period beginning on the Effective Date. If Executive breaches or violates any of the covenants or provisions of this Agreement, the running of the Non-Compete Period shall be tolled during the period the breach or violation continues. "Option Plans" means Sprint's 1990 Stock Option Plan and Sprint's Management Incentive Stock Option Plan. "Options" means all the options previously granted to Executive to purchase shares of FON Common Stock or PCS Common Stock under any of Sprint's stock option plans or programs. "Payment Period" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 2. "PCS Common Stock" means the Company's PCS Common Stock, Series 1, $1.00 par value per share. "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, trust or any other entity or organization. "Proceeding" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 4. "Prior Agreement" has the meaning accorded such term in the Recitals. "Proprietary Information" means trade secrets (such as customer information, technical and non- technical data, a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, drawing, process) and other confidential and proprietary information concerning the products, processes, or services of the Company or the Company's affiliates, including but not limited to: computer programs, unpatented or unpatentable inventions, discoveries or improvements; marketing, manufacturing, or organizational research and development results and 15
plans; business and strategic plans; sales forecasts and plans; personnel information, including the identity of other employees of the Company, their responsibilities, competence, abilities, and compensation; pricing and financial information; current and prospective customer lists and information on customers or their employees; information concerning purchases of major equipment or property; and information about potential mergers or acquisitions which information: (i) has not been made known generally to the public; and (ii) is useful or of value to the current or anticipated business, or research or development activities of the Company or of any customer or supplier of the Company, or (iii) has been identified to Executive as confidential by the Company, either orally or in writing. "Restrictive Covenants" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 7. "Retirement Plan" means the Sprint Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and the Sprint Retirement Pension Plan. "Retirement Plan Benefit" means the benefit described in Section 2(e). "Separation Benefits" has the meaning accorded such term in Section 2. "Short-Term Incentive Plan" means the Company's Management Incentive Plan, together with successor or other plans specifically approved for this purpose by the Committee. "SPRINT" has the meaning accorded such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. "SUMC" has the meaning accorded such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. "Tax Liabilities" means any federal, state or local taxes, including income and withholding taxes and interests and penalties thereon, relating to any compensation paid or deemed paid by the Company or any of its Affiliates to Executive. 9. ASSIGNABILITY, BINDING NATURE This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors, heirs (in the case of Executive), and assigns. No rights or obligations of the Company under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by the Company except that such rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred to any subsidiary of Sprint or pursuant to a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or the sale or liquidation of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, but only if the 16
assignee or transferee becomes the successor to all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and assumes the liabilities, obligations, and duties of the Company, as contained in this Agreement, either contractually or as a matter of law. The Company further agrees that, in the event of a sale of assets or liquidation as described in the preceding sentence, it will take whatever action it legally can in order to cause the assignee or transferee to expressly assume the liabilities, obligations, and duties of the Company hereunder. No rights or obligations of Executive under this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by Executive other than his rights to compensation and benefits, which may be transferred only in connection with Executive's estate planning objectives or by will or operation of law. 10. AMENDMENT This Agreement may be amended, modified, or canceled only by mutual agreement of the parties in writing. 11. APPLICABLE LAW The provisions of this Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Kansas, without regard to the conflict of law provisions of any state. 12. SEVERABILITY The various provisions of this Agreement are intended to be severable and to constitute independent and distinct binding obligations. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal, or incapable of being enforced, in whole or in part, it shall not affect or impair the validity of any other provision or part of this Agreement, and the provision or part shall be deemed modified to the minimum extent required to permit enforcement. Upon such a determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal, or incapable of being enforced, the court or arbitrator, as applicable, shall have the authority to so modify the provision or term. If such provision or term is not modified by the court or arbitrator, the parties must negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the provisions of this Agreement are preserved to the greatest extent possible. 13. WAIVER OF BREACH No waiver by any party hereto of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by any other party, or of compliance with any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party, will operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the other party of any similar 17
or dissimilar provisions and conditions at the same or any prior or subsequent time. The failure of either party to take any action by reason of such breach will not deprive the party of the right to take action at any time while the breach continues. 14. NOTICES Notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or prepaid overnight courier to the parties at the addresses set forth below (or such other addresses as shall be specified by the parties by like notice), with a copy of such notice also sent via electronic mail (email): If to the Company: 6200 Sprint Parkway Overland Park, KS 66251 Fax: 913-523-7700 Attn: General Counsel email: thomas.a.gerke@mail.sprint.com Copies to: Davis Polk & Wardwell 450 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 10017 Fax: 212-450-4800 Attn: Lewis B. Kaden email: kaden@dpw.com If to Executive: William T. Esrey 1314 Spraddle Creek Road Vail, CO 81657 email: billesrey@mail.sprint.com (or to the latest address furnished by Executive to Company for purposes of general communications). Copies to: O'Melveny & Myers Ltd. 610 Newport Center Drive, 17th Floor Newport Beach, CA 92660 Attn: Stephen Pepe email: spepe@omm.com Each party, by written notice furnished to the other party, may modify the applicable delivery address, but any notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt. Such notices, demands, claims and other communications shall 18
be deemed given in the case of delivery by overnight service with guaranteed next day delivery, the next day or the day designated for delivery; or in the case of certified or registered U.S. mail, five days after deposit in the U.S. mail, but in no event will any such communications be deemed to be given later than the date they are actually received. 15. ENTIRE AGREEMENT Except as otherwise noted herein, this Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties concerning the subject matter specifically addressed herein, and, except for the terms and provisions of any other employee benefit or other compensation plans (or any agreements or awards thereunder) to the extent referred to herein or contemplated hereby, this Agreement supersedes all prior and contemporaneous oral agreements, if any, between the parties relating to the subject matter specifically addressed herein including, without limitation, the Prior Agreement and the Term Sheet dated May 12, 2003. The Company agrees to take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out its obligations under this Agreement. 16. HEADINGS The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and will not affect the construction of any of its provisions. 17. COUNTERPARTS This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, each of which is deemed to be an original and all of which taken together constitute one and the same agreement. [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Executive have executed this Agreement, to be effective as of the date first set forth above. /s/ W. T. Esrey SPRINT CORPORATION - ---------------------------- WILLIAM T. ESREY By: /s/ Gary D. Forsee Name: Gary D. Forsee Title: Chief Executive Officer SPRINT/UNITED MANAGEMENT COMPANY By: /s/ Gary D. Forsee Name: Gary D. Forsee Title: Chief Executive Officer


