FILE:S/S-8K-20041012162640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) October 11, 2004 SPRINT CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Kansas 1-04721 48-0457967 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 6200 Sprint Parkway, Overland Park, Kansas 66251 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (913) 624-3000 (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) P. O. Box 7997, Shawnee Mission, Kansas 66207-0997 (Mailing address of principal executive offices) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement On October 11, 2004, the Board of Directors of Sprint Corporation ("Sprint") adopted amendments to the Management Incentive Plan, the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, the Directors' Deferred Fee Plan, and the 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program. Management Incentive Plan The Management Incentive Plan provides for the payment to executive officers and other eligible employees of incentive compensation based on the achievement of near-term objectives of the corporation. The amendment would provide for a pro-rated payment to be made, based on 100% of a participant's target, as soon as practicable after the participant's death rather than following the end of the performance cycle. In addition, other changes were made relating to the manner in which the plan is administered. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and Directors' Deferred Fee Plan The Executive Deferred Compensation Plan allows executive officers and other eligible employees of Sprint to defer a portion of their annual compensation. The Directors' Deferred Fee Plan allows outside directors of Sprint to defer a portion of their annual retainer, meeting fees and committee meeting fees. Currently, the plan year for these plans runs from May 1 of a year through April 30 of the following year. These plans were amended to provide for a shortened plan year in 2005, beginning on May 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2005, and for subsequent plan years to be on a calendar year basis. In addition, the plans now require enrollment to be made during the calendar year preceding the plan year (or, for outside directors, within 30 days after initial eligibility to participate in the plan). 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program The 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program (the "1997 Program") provides for the grant of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other equity based awards to directors, officers and other eligible employees of Sprint. In addition, the 1997 Program allows outside directors of Sprint to elect to use a portion of their retainer, meeting fees and committee meeting fees to purchase shares of Sprint common stock. They can also elect to have the purchased shares deferred and placed in a trust. The 1997 Program was amended to require that the election by outside directors to use their retainer, meeting fees and committee meeting fees to acquire stock be made in the calendar year before the retainer and fees are earned. In addition, the 1997 Program was amended to provide that the election for 2005 apply to the retainer and fees earned from May 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005 and for subsequent elections to apply to the retainer and fees earned in a calendar year. 1
The 1997 Program was also amended to provide (1) that one of the standard terms for Other Stock Unit Awards granted under the plan is that, once vested, the award will not be forfeited if the grantee goes to work for or becomes associated with a competitor of Sprint, and (2) that the Compensation Committee of the Sprint Board can delegate to Section 16 executive officers the right to grant, cancel or suspend awards to employees who are not Section 16 executive officers. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits 10.1 Management Incentive Plan, as amended. 10.2 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended. Summary of Amendments to the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. 10.3 Directors' Deferred Fee Plan, as amended. 10.4 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program, as amended. 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. SPRINT CORPORATION Date: October 12, 2004 By: /s/ Michael T. Hyde Michael T. Hyde, Assistant Secretary 3
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page 10.1 Management Incentive Plan, as amended. 10.2 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended. Summary of Amendments to the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. 10.3 Directors' Deferred Fee Plan, as amended. 10.4 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program, as amended. 4

Exhibit 10.1 Management Incentive Plan 1.0 Establishment The Management Incentive Plan is effective January 1, 1984. Thereafter, it will continue from year to year, until the Board amends or terminates it. 2.0 Definitions 2.01 "Board" is the Board of Directors of Sprint Corporation. 2.02 "Committee" is the Compensation Committee of the Board. 2.03 "Company" is Sprint Corporation. 2.04 "Employee" is any person (including officers and directors of the Company) employed by the Company, or a subsidiary of the Company, on a salaried basis. 2.05 "Participant" is an employee designated by the Committee to participate in the Plan. 2.06 "Senior Officer" is an officer of the Company holding the office of Senior Vice President or higher. 2.07 "Termination for Cause", in the case of an employee, means an involuntary termination of employment because (i) the employee has materially breached the Company's Code of Ethics; (ii) the employee has materially breached the Sprint Employee Agreement Regarding Property Rights and Business Practices; (iii)the employee has engaged in acts or omissions constituting dishonesty, intentional breach of a fiduciary obligation, or intentional acts of wrongdoing or misfeasance; or (iv) the employee has acted intentionally and in bad faith in a manner that results in a material detriment to the assets, business, or prospects of the employer. In determining whether any particular employee was Terminated for Cause, the characterization of the reason for termination used for purposes of other employee benefit plans of the Company shall apply to this Plan.
3.0 Purpose The Plan is intended to further the Company's objectives by offering competitive incentive compensation to employees who make substantive contributions to those objectives. 4.0 Administration 4.01 The Committee will be responsible for the administration of the Plan. This Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations deemed advisable to protect the interests of the Company, and to make all other administrative determinations necessary. Any determination, interpretation or other action made or taken by the Committee pursuant to the Plan's provisions will be final for all purposes and upon all persons. 4.02 The Committee may delegate to a Senior Officer or a Committee of Senior Officers the right to select Participants and grant awards under the Plan to employees who are not Senior Officers. The Senior Officer or Committee of Senior Officers shall have the same powers with respect to such awards as the Committee has under this Plan, provided that all decisions must be within the boundaries of the Compensation Philosophy established by the Committee. 5.0 Performance Cycle A Performance Cycle consists of a calendar year. Cash may be awarded to Participants for each year the Committee approves a plan. 6.0 Performance Criteria For each Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the factors to be used for measuring performance. Such Committee determinations may vary from year to year. 7.0 Adjustments The Committee may make adjustments in the Performance Criteria to compensate for any changes that significantly alter the basis upon which the Criteria were determined. These adjustments may be made before or after the end of the Cycle (normally by the February meeting of the Committee). To the extent the Committee deems appropriate, all changes will be binding upon all parties concerned during the Cycle. 2
8.0 Participation 8.01 For each Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine which employees, who are in a position to influence the Company's success, will participate in the Plan. 8.02 Employees hired or promoted during a Performance Cycle into a position appropriate for participation in this Plan may either participate in the already existing Cycle on a pro-rated basis, or be held out until the beginning of the next Cycle. This determination will be made by the Committee. 9.0 Payment 9.01 The Committee will determine the award earned by each Senior Officer for any Performance Cycle. 9.02 Payments of amounts due a Participant under the Plan not deferred pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 10.1 below will be made after approval by the Committee, or a Senior Officer or committee of Senior Officers under Section 4.02. 9.03 The department or affiliated company where the employee is located at the end of the Performance Cycle year is responsible for the total Performance Cycle payout, including any pro-rata awards from other plans. Management at the final location is responsible for determining the level of payout for the entire Performance Cycle year. The Participant's former company or department is to be solicited to determine the pro-rata payout from other plans. 10.0 Deferral 10.01 For each Performance Cycle, an eligible Participant may elect, in writing (including electronically), to voluntarily defer all or a portion of a potential payment. This will be consistent with the federal income tax code requirements to effectively defer income. The Committee will determine the terms of all deferrals. 11.0 Termination of Employment 11.01 If termination of employment occurs during a Performance Cycle by reason of disability (as determined under the Company's long-term disability program) or normal retirement (as determined under the Company's retirement program), the Participant will be entitled to a pro-rated award based upon appropriate Performance Criteria that will be determined by the Committee. The Committee will determine the pro-rated award under the rules and regulations it establishes. The award will 3
be paid when all other payments are made at the end of the Performance Cycle. If after termination of employment by reason of disability or normal retirement the Participant dies during the Performance Cycle, in lieu of a pro-rated award based upon appropriate Performance Criteria, the Participant will be paid a pro-rated award based on 100% of the Participant's target as soon as practicable after Participant's death. 11.02 If termination of employment occurs during a Performance Cycle by reason of death, the Participant will be paid a pro-rated award based on 100% of the Participant's target as soon as practicable after the Participant's death. 11.03 Should an employee terminate and immediately become employed by an affiliated organization, a pro-rata payment may also be extended. 11.04 If termination of employment occurs for reasons other than death, disability, normal retirement or transfer, all the Participant's interests and rights in this Plan will be forfeited, unless otherwise determined by the Committee. 12.0 Non-Transferability A Participant's rights and interests under the Plan may not be sold, pledged, assigned or transferred in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution except as provided by the Plan or specified by the Committee. 13.0 Tax Withholding The Company retains the right to deduct from all awards paid in cash any taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to cash awards. 14.0 Continuance of Employment Nothing under the Plan nor any action taken because of the Plan will be construed as giving any employee any right to be retained in the Company's employ. 15.0 Amendment and Termination The Board, at any time may terminate, and at any time and in any respect may amend or modify the Plan. 16.0 Legal Requirements 16.01 The designation of participation and any opportunity in the Plan, together with the payment of cash, will be subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. 4
16.02 The Plan and all related provisions will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Kansas. 5

Exhibit 10.2 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan ARTICLE I PURPOSE The purpose of the Sprint Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan") is to provide funds for retirement or death for executive employees (and their Beneficiaries) of Sprint Corporation and its subsidiaries. It is intended that the Plan will aid in retaining and attracting employees of exceptional ability by providing such employees with a means to supplement their standard of living at retirement. ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 2.1 Account Transfer Request. "Account Transfer Request" means a written notice, in a form prescribed by the Company, by a Participant to transfer all or any portion of one Deferred Benefit Account to another Deferred Benefit Account as provided for in paragraph 6.7. 2.2 Amendment of Payment Election Form. "Amendment of Payment Election Form" means a written notice, in a form prescribed by the Company, filed with the Company by a Participant to change the manner in which such Participant's Deferral Benefits are to be paid. 2.3 Beneficiary. "Beneficiary" means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant, or as provided in Article VIII, to receive any benefits payable under the Plan. Any Participant Beneficiary Designation shall be made in a written instrument filed with the Company and shall become effective only when received, accepted and acknowledged in writing by the Company. 2.4 Board. "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company. 2.5 Committee. "Committee" means the Deferred Compensation Committee appointed to review the Plan decisions pursuant to Article III.
2.6 Company. "Company" means Sprint Corporation, or any successor thereto. 2.7 Compensation. "Compensation" means (i) Base Salary earned during the Plan Year, and (ii) Annual Incentive Compensation and Long-Term Incentive Compensation payable to a Participant with respect to a performance period beginning during the Plan Year, other than a distribution under this Plan. (a) Base Salary. "Base Salary" means all regular cash remuneration for services, other than such items as Annual Incentive Compensation, payable by the Employer to a Participant in cash, but before reduction for amounts deferred pursuant to this Plan or any other Plan of the Employer. (b) Annual Incentive Compensation. "Annual Incentive Compensation" means any cash incentive compensation earned by a Participant.over a period of one year. (c) Long-Term Incentive Compensation. "Long-Term Incentive Compensation" means cash incentive compensation, if any, earned by a Participant over a period of more than one year. 2.8 Deferral Benefit. "Deferral Benefit" means the benefit payable to a Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary on the Participant's retirement, death, disability, or termination of employment as calculated in Article VII hereof. 2.9 Deferred Benefit Account. "Deferred Benefit Account" means the accounts maintained on the books of account of the Employer for each Participant pursuant to Article VI. Separate Deferred Benefit Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant. More than one Deferred Benefit Account shall be maintained for each Participant to reflect (a) Termination and Retirement Interest Yields, (b) separate deferral elections, and (c) Account A, Account B, Account D, Account AA, Account BB, and Account DD elections. For Account AA two sub-accounts (a Retirement Deferred Benefit Account and a Termination Deferred Benefit Account) shall be maintained to reflect the difference in Interest Yields as provided in Article VI, paragraph 6.4. 2
For Account BB two sub-accounts (a Retirement Deferred Benefit Account and a Termination Deferred Benefit Account) shall be maintained to reflect, in the event of a transfer from Account AA or Account DD to Account BB pursuant to paragraph 6.7, the difference in values of the two sub-accounts of Account AA or Account DD transferred to Account BB. For Account DD two sub-accounts (a Retirement Deferred Benefit Account and a Termination Deferred Benefit Account) shall be maintained to reflect the crediting of PCS Share Units corresponding to the respective sub- accounts of Account BB pursuant to Section 6.3(b) and to reflect, in the event of a transfer from Account AA or Account BB to Account DD pursuant to paragraph 6.7, the difference in values of the two sub-accounts of Account AA or Account BB transferred to Account DD. A Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts shall be used solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participant pursuant to this Plan. A Participant's Deferred Benefit Account shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind. Unless the context requires otherwise, "Deferred Benefit Account" shall mean the aggregate balance of all accounts of a Participant. 2.10 Determination Date. "Determination Date" means the date on which the amount of a Participant's Deferred Benefit Account is determined as provided in Article VI hereof. The last day of each calendar month shall be a Determination Date. 2.11 Disability. "Disability" or "Disabled Participant" means a physical or mental condition of a Participant resulting in a determination of disability for purposes of receiving benefits under the Employer Long-Term Disability Insurance Plan. 2.12 Early Retirement Date. "Early Retirement Date" means the date on which the Participant actually terminates employment following the first day of the month coincidental with or next following a Participant's attainment of age fifty-five (55), but before his Normal Retirement Date. 2.13 Employer. "Employer" means Sprint Corporation, any successor to the business thereof or any affiliate or subsidiary designated by the Board. 3
2.14 FON Share Unit. " FON Share Unit" means a measure of participation under the Plan having a value based on the market value of one share of FON Common Stock, Series 1, of the Company. 2.15 Internal Revenue Code. "Internal Revenue Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended or supplemented from time to time. References to any section of the Internal Revenue Code shall be to that section as it is renumbered, amended, supplemented or re-enacted. 2.16 Interest Yield. "Interest Yield" means with respect to any calendar month the Termination Interest Yield or the Retirement Interest Yield as defined below: (a) Termination Interest Yield. The "Termination Interest Yield" means (1) in the case of balances in Account AA, the composite yield on Moody's Seasoned Corporate Bond Yield Index for the preceding calendar month as determined from Moody's Bond Record published by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. (or any successor thereto) or, if such monthly yield is no longer published, a substantially similar average selected by the Company, and (2) in the case of balances in Account A, the greater of (i) the prime rate in effect at Citibank, N.A. at the opening of business on the first business day of the month, or if said bank, for any reason, no longer publishes its prime rate, the prime rate similarly determined of another major bank selected by the Company and (ii) six percent per annum. (b) Retirement Interest Yield. The "Retirement Interest Yield" means (1) in the case of balances in Account AA, three percentage points over the Termination Interest Yield, and (2) in the case of balances in Account A, the Termination Interest Yield. 2.17 Normal Retirement Age. "Normal Retirement Age" means the time at which a Participant attains age sixty-five (65). 2.18 Normal Retirement Date. "Normal Retirement Date" means the first day of the month coincidental with or next following a Participant's Normal Retirement Age. 2.19 Participant. "Participant" means any individual who is designated by the Company in accordance with paragraph 4.1 to participate in this 4
Plan and who elects to participate by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Article IV. 2.20 Participation Agreement. "Participation Agreement" means the agreement, in a form prescribed by the Company, filed with the Company by a Participant before the beginning of the period in which the Participant's Compensation is to be deferred pursuant to the Plan and the Participation Agreement. A new Participation Agreement shall be filed by the Participant for each separate Base Salary deferral election and for each Annual Incentive Compensation deferral election and, if applicable, each Long-Term Incentive Compensation deferral election not accompanying a Base Salary deferral election. 2.21 PCS Share Unit. "PCS Share Unit" means a measure of participation under the Plan having a value based on the market value of a share of PCS Common Stock, Series 1, of the Company. 2.22 Plan. "Plan" means the Sprint Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan as set forth in this document. This Plan is the successor to, and comprises an amendment and revision of, the United Telecommunications, Inc. 1985 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan adopted February 12, 1985. 2.23 Plan Administrator. "Plan Administrator" means the person appointed by the Company to represent the Company in the administration of this Plan. 2.24 Plan Year. Until the 2005 Plan Year, "Plan Year" means a twelve month period commencing May 1st and ending the following April 30th. The first Plan Year commenced May 1, 1985. The 2005 Plan Year will be the eight month period commencing May 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2005, and all subsequent Plan Years will be twelve month periods commencing January 1 of a year and ending on December 31 of the same year. 2.25 Recapitalization Date. "Recapitalization Date" means November 23, 1998. 2.26 Retirement Plan. "Retirement Plan" means the Sprint Retirement Pension Plan, as amended from time to time. 5
2.27 Share Units. "Share Units" means the Share Units credited to Accounts B and BB prior to the recapitalization of the Company's Common Stock on the Recapitalization Date. 2.28 Spouse. "Spouse" means a Participant's wife or husband who was lawfully married to the Participant upon the Participant's retirement, death or severance from service. 2.29 Sprint Insider. "Sprint Insider" means, as of any time when the determination thereof is relevant, any Participant subject to liability under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to trading in the equity securities of the Company. 2.30 Transition Date. "Transition Date" means May 1, 1990. ARTICLE III ADMINISTRATION 3.1 Plan Administrator; Company and Committee; Duties. This Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall consist of not more than five persons appointed by the Board. The Committee may be a consolidated Committee administering other benefit plans of the Company in addition to this Plan. The Committee shall have the authority to make, amend, interpret, and enforce all appropriate rules and regulations for the administration of this Plan and decide or resolve any and all questions, including interpretations of this Plan, as may arise in connection with the Plan. The Committee may appoint a Benefit Administrative Committee and a Plan Administrator. The Committee may delegate its duties for the day-to-day operations of the Plan to the Plan Administrator and other duties to the Benefit Administrative Committee. Members of the Committee, the Benefit Administrative Committee and the Plan Administrator may be Participants under this Plan. 3.2 Claim for Benefits. Any claim for benefits under this Plan shall be made in writing to the Plan Administrator. If a claim for benefits is wholly or partially denied, the Plan Administrator shall so notify the Participant or Beneficiary within 90 days after receipt of the claim. The notice of denial shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Participant or Beneficiary and shall contain (a) the specific reason or reasons for denial of the claim, (b) specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the denial is based, (c) a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim together with an explanation 6
of why such material or information is necessary and (d) an explanation of the claims review procedure. The decision or action of the Plan Administrator shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons having any interest in the Plan, unless a written appeal is filed as provided in Section 3.3. 3.3 Review of Claim. Within 60 days after the receipt by the Participant or Beneficiary of notice of denial of a claim, the Participant or Beneficiary may (a) file a request with the Benefit Administrative Committee that it conduct a full and fair review of the denial of the claim, (b) review pertinent documents and (c) submit questions and comments to the Committee in writing. 3.4 Decision After Review. Within 60 days after the receipt of a request for review under Section 3.3, the Committee shall deliver to the Participant or Beneficiary a written decision with respect to the claim, except that if there are special circumstances (such as the need to hold a hearing) which require more time for processing, the 60-day period shall be extended to 120 days upon notice to the Participant or Beneficiary to that effect. The decision shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Participant or Beneficiary and shall (a) include the specific reason or reasons for the decision and (b) contain a specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision is based. ARTICLE IV PARTICIPATION 4.1 Participation. Participation in the Plan shall be limited to executives having a job grade level of E14 or above, or any other employees designated by the Committee, who elect to participate in the Plan by filing a Participation Agreement with the Company. Participation Agreements must be filed by the enrollment deadline established by the Plan Administrator for a Plan Year, which deadline must be no later than the last business day of the calendar year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the Participant Agreement is to first take effect, and the election to participate shall be effective on the first day of the Plan Year following receipt by the Company of a properly completed and executed Participation Agreement. 4.2 Minimum and Maximum Deferral and Length of Participation. A Participant may elect in any Participation Agreement to defer a portion 7
of the Participant's Compensation. The minimum and maximum amounts that may be deferred under any single Participation Agreement shall be in $100 units and shall be as follows: Minimum Maximum Deferral Deferral With respect to $300 per 50% of Base Base Salary month Salary Deferrals With respect to 25% of Annual 100% of Annual Incentive Annual Incentive Compensation Incentive Compensation Compensation With respect to 25% of Long- 100% of Long- Long-Term Term Incentive Term Incentive Incentive Compensation Compensation (a) With respect to Base Salary deferrals, the dollar amount of deferral elected in each Participation Agreement shall be the amount of Base Salary that will be deferred in each month subject to the Participation Agreement. Each Participation Agreement shall apply to the Participant's Base Salary earned in the Plan Year immediately following the Plan Year in which the Participation Agreement is filed (or until the Participant's retirement, whichever occurs first). The fixed dollar amount of Base Salary deferral applicable over a Plan Year shall not be changed by virtue of a change in Base Salary alone. (b) With respect to Annual Incentive Compensation and, if applicable, Long-Term Incentive Compensation deferrals, the deferral percentage selected in a Participation Agreement shall apply to any Annual Incentive Compensation or Long-Term Incentive Compensation payable to a Participant with respect to any performance period beginning in the Plan Year immediately following the Plan Year in which the Participation Agreement is received by the Plan Administrator. For any performance period beginning in calendar year 2005, but before the beginning of the 2005 Plan Year, the deferral percentage selected in the special Participation Agreement established by the Plan Administrator applicable to such compensation, which must be received by the Company no later than December 31, 2004, shall apply. 8
(c) From time to time, the Company may increase or decrease the minimum and maximum deferrals set forth above as well as the period for which the deferrals are effective by giving reasonable written notice to the affected Participants. Such changes shall be effective for all Participation Agreements filed thereafter. (d) A Participant's election to defer Compensation shall be irrevocable upon the filing of the respective Participation Agreement; provided, however, that the deferral of Compensation under any Participation Agreement may be suspended or amended as provided in paragraphs 7.5 or 9.1. ARTICLE V DEFERRED COMPENSATION 5.1 Elective Deferred Compensation. The amount of Compensation that a Participant elects to defer in the Participation Agreement executed by the Participant, with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan, shall be credited by the Company to the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account as the Participant is paid the non-deferred portion of such Compensation, or if all such Compensation is deferred, at the time such Compensation would have been paid absent the deferral election. The amount credited to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Account shall equal the amount deferred. To the extent that the Employer is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts relating to the employees' deferred wages pursuant to any state, federal or local law, such amounts shall be taken out of the portion of the Participant's Compensation which is not deferred under this Plan. 5.2 Additional Amounts Under Savings Plan and Retirement Plan. (a) Savings Plan. Except for Participants who are Sprint Insiders, to the extent a Participant's deferral of Compensation under this Plan causes a reduction in the Company's contribution for the Participant under the Sprint Retirement Savings Plan, the Company shall credit the amount of any such reduction to the Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts B and D in the ratio determined pursuant to guidelines adopted by the Committee or the Board. For Sprint Insiders, such reduction shall be credited to Account A. 9
(b) Retirement Plan. A Participant shall receive a Pension Make-Up Benefit from the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan if the deferral of compensation under this Plan causes a reduction in the Participant's benefit under the Retirement Plan. (c) Elimination of Savings Plan Credit. No additional amounts provided under 5.2(a) will be credited after the Plan Year ending April 30, 2004. 5.3 Additional Payments. The Company also intends that supplemental payments shall be made at death, disability or termination of employment, as the case may be, for any reduction in benefits due to deferrals of Compensation under this Plan in respect of any of the Employer's life insurance or disability plans or Employees Stock Purchase Plan now in existence or adopted after the effective date of this Plan. 5.4 Vesting of Deferred Benefit Account. A Participant shall be 100% vested in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account. ARTICLE VI DEFERRED BENEFIT ACCOUNT 6.1 Determination of Account. Each Participant's Deferred Benefit Account, as of each Determination Date, shall consist of the balance of the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account as of the immediately preceding Determination Date, plus the Participant's elective deferred compensation withheld since the immediately preceding Determination Date pursuant to paragraph 5.1 and plus amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account pursuant to paragraphs 6.4 and 6.5. The Deferred Benefit Account of each Participant shall be reduced by the amount of all distributions, if any, made from such Deferred Benefit Account since the preceding Determination Date. 6.2 Type of Deferral. A Participant may elect to have any portion of the amount deferred credited to Account A (fixed income return) or to Account B (FON Share Units). The election shall be made by a properly executed Participation Agreement. Deferrals shall be credited in accordance with the election of the applicable Participation Agreement. 10
6.3 Creation of Accounts AA, BB, D, and DD. (a) Accounts AA and BB. As of the start of business on the Transition Date, all amounts standing to the credit of each Participant in Account A were transferred to an Account AA. As of the start of business on the Transition Date, amounts standing to the credit of each Participant in Account B that were attributable to prior transfers from Account A into Account B were transferred to an Account BB. The amount of such transfers was an amount equal to the sum of the dollar amount of all transfers from Account A to Account B during the period beginning on the effective date of the Participation Agreement and ending on the Transition Date. For all purposes of this Plan, except as otherwise noted in this Plan, Account AA shall be treated in the same manner as Account A, and Account BB shall be treated in the same manner as Account B. (b) Accounts D and DD. As of the Recapitalization Date, there was credited to Accounts D and DD, created for each Participant having a positive balance in an Account B or BB with respect to any Plan Year, a number of PCS Share Units determined as follows: (1) one-half of a PCS Share Unit in Account D for each Share Unit in Account B for such Participant for such Plan Year as of the Recapitalization Date; and (2) one-half of a PCS Share Unit in the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account of Account DD for each Share Unit in the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account of Account BB for such Participant for such Plan Year as of the Recapitalization Date; and (3) one-half of a PCS Share Unit in the Termination Deferred Benefit Account of Account DD for each Share Unit in the Termination Deferred Benefit Account of Account BB for such Participant for such Plan Year as of the Recapitalization Date. For all purposes of this Plan except as otherwise noted in this Plan, Account DD shall be treated in the same manner as Account D. 6.4 Maintenance of Accounts A and AA. As of each Determination Date, the Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts A and AA shall be increased by the amount of interest earned since the preceding 11
Determination Date. Interest on Accounts A and AA shall be based upon the Interest Yield. For Account AA, a Retirement Deferred Benefit Account shall be maintained and increased at the rate specified by the Retirement Interest Yield and a Termination Deferred Benefit Account shall be maintained and increased at the rate specified by the Termination Interest Yield. Interest shall be credited on the mean average of the balances of the Deferred Benefit Account on the Determination Date (before crediting the interest) and on the last preceding Determination Date, but after the Deferred Benefit Account has been adjusted for any contributions or distributions to be credited or deducted for each such day. 6.5 Maintenance of Share Unit Accounts. Accounts B and BB and Accounts D and DD shall maintain balances in FON Share Units and PCS Share Units, respectively. (a) Maintenance of Accounts B and BB. (1) Conversion of Share Units into FON Share Units. As of the Recapitalization Date, each Share Unit in Accounts B and BB was converted into a FON Share Unit. (2) Conversion between Dollar Amounts and FON Share Units in Accounts B and BB. When an amount is to be added to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts B or BB, it shall be converted into FON Share Units, or fractions thereof, by dividing the amount to be credited by the closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. When a number of FON Share Units is to be subtracted from a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts B or BB, such number of FON Share Units shall be converted into a dollar amount by multiplying such number of Share Units by the closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. (3) Sub-accounts to be Maintained for Purposes of Computing Retirement and Termination Benefits. Two sub-accounts shall be maintained for Account BB: (i) a Retirement Deferred Benefit Account which shall include the transfer from Account B into Account BB described in paragraph 6.3(a), plus amounts transferred from the 12
Account AA Retirement Deferred Benefit Account, if any, plus amounts transferred from the Account DD Retirement Benefit Account, if any, plus other additions pursuant to this paragraph 6.5(a); and (ii) a Termination Deferred Benefit Account which shall include the transfer from Account B into Account BB described in paragraph 6.3(a) plus amounts transferred from the Account AA Termination Deferred Benefit Account, if any, plus amounts transferred from the Account DD Termination Deferred Benefit Account, if any, plus other additions pursuant to this paragraph 6.5(a). (4) Dividends. When a dividend is declared and paid by the Company on its FON Common Stock, Series 1, an amount shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts B and BB as though the same dividend had been paid on the FON Share Units in such accounts as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the record date for the dividend, and such amount shall be converted to FON Share Units. Such amount shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following the payment of the dividend. (5) Effect of Recapitalization. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, or other corporate reorganization involving the FON Common Stock, Series 1, the Company shall make equitable adjustment to the number of FON Share Units credited to a Participant's Accounts B and BB as may be necessary to give effect to such change in the Company's capital structure. (6) Conversion of Share Units to Dollars on Distribution. FON Share Units in Accounts B and BB shall be converted to an equivalent dollar amount before any distribution thereof to a Participant pursuant to Article VII. For purposes of distribution, the value of a FON Share Unit shall be the average closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day of each of (i) the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the date of distribution or (ii) the smaller number of calendar months (including part of a month) elapsed from the Recapitalization Date to such distribution. If a Participant elects payment in other than a lump sum, FON Share Units shall be so converted to a dollar amount with respect to each payment made in the distribution. During the period of 13
distribution, dividends and other equitable adjustments shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts B and BB in accordance with paragraphs 6.5(a)(4) and 6.5(a)(5). For such purposes, a Participant that is a Sprint Insider immediately before the event that entitles the Participant to distribution shall be deemed a Sprint Insider during the period of distribution. (b) Maintenance of Accounts D and DD. (1) Conversion between Dollar Amounts and PCS Share Units in Accounts D and DD. When an amount is to be added to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts D or DD, it shall be converted into PCS Share Units, or fractions thereof, by dividing the amount to be credited by the closing price of the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. When a number of PCS Share Units is to be subtracted from a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts D or DD, such number of PCS Share Units shall be converted into a dollar amount by multiplying such number of PCS Share Units by the closing price of PCS Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. (2) Sub-accounts to be Maintained for Purposes of Computing Retirement and Termination Benefits. Two sub-accounts shall be maintained for Account DD: (i) a Retirement Deferred Benefit Account which shall include the value of the PCS Share Units credited pursuant to paragraph 6.3(b)(2), plus amounts transferred from the Account AA Retirement Benefit Account, if any, plus amounts transferred from the Account BB Retirement Benefit Account, if any, plus other additions pursuant to this paragraph 6.5(b) and (ii) a Termination Deferred Benefit Account which shall include the value of the PCS Share Units credited pursuant to paragraph 6.3(b)(3), plus amounts transferred from the Account AA Termination Benefit Account, if any, plus amounts transferred from the Account BB Termination Benefit Account, if any, plus other additions pursuant to this paragraph 6.5(b). 14
(3) Dividends. When a dividend is declared and paid by the Company on its PCS Common Stock, Series 1, an amount shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts D and DD as though the same dividend had been paid on the PCS Share Units in such accounts as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the record date for the dividend, and such amount shall be converted to PCS Share Units. Such amount shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following the payment of the dividend. (4) Effect of Recapitalization. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or other corporate reorganization involving PCS Common Stock, Series 1, the Company shall make equitable adjustment to the number of PCS Share Units credited to a Participant's Accounts D and DD as may be necessary to give effect to such change in the Company's capital structure. In the event a corporate reorganization results in the conversion of PCS Share Units into FON Share Units, all FON Share Units held in Accounts D and DD following the reorganization shall be transferred to the Accounts B and BB, respectively. The Accounts D and DD shall then be eliminated. (5) Conversion of PCS Share Units to Dollars on Distribution. PCS Share Units in Accounts D and DD shall be converted to an equivalent dollar amount before any distribution thereof to a Participant pursuant to Article VII. For purposes of distribution, the value of a PCS Share Unit shall be the average closing price of PCS Common Stock, Series 1, on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day for each of (i) the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the date of such distribution or (ii) the smaller number of calendar months (including part of a month) elapsed from the Recapitalization Date to such distribution. If a Participant elects payment in other than a lump sum, PCS Share Units shall be so converted to a dollar amount with respect to each payment made in the distribution. During the period of distribution, dividends and other equitable adjustments shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts D and DD in accordance with paragraphs 6.5(b)(3) and 6.5(b)(4). For such purposes, a Participant that is a Sprint Insider immediately before the 15
event that entitles the Participant to distribution shall be deemed a Sprint Insider during the period of distribution. 6.6 Statement of Accounts. The Company shall submit to each Participant, within 120 days after the close of each Plan Year, a statement in such form as the Company deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts A, B, and D and in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts AA, BB, and DD (showing separate calculations for each Interest Yield), in each case, as of the last day of the preceding Plan Year. 6.7 Transfers Between Accounts. Within the limitations of this paragraph 6.7, a Participant may elect, by executing an Account Transfer Request: (1) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account A to Account B or Account D, (2) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account B to Account A or Account D, (3) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account D to Account A or Account B, (4) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account AA to Account BB or Account DD, (5) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account BB to Account AA or Account DD, and (6) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account DD to Account AA or Account BB. Such election shall be effective on the last day of the calendar month in which the Plan Administrator timely receives the Participant's executed Account Transfer Request. Transfers may not be made more than four times in any Plan Year, and no such transfer may be made unless a period of at least three months shall have elapsed from the effective date of the most recent such transfer (whether it occurred in the current Plan Year or not) to the effective date of the current transfer. ARTICLE VII BENEFITS 7.1 Benefit for Normal or Early Retirement and Termination After Age 55. Subject to paragraph 7.6 below, upon a Participant's (i) retirement after reaching the Normal Retirement Date, or (ii) retirement after reaching the Early Retirement Date, or (iii) termination of employment after attaining age 55, the Participant shall be entitled to a Deferral Benefit equal to the amount of the Participant's Retirement Deferred Benefit Account determined under paragraph 6.1 as of the Determination Date coincident with or immediately following such event. 16
7.2 Termination of Employment Before Age 55. Upon any termination of service of the Participant before age 55 for reasons other than death or Disability, the Employer shall pay to the Participant, as compensation earned for services rendered before the Participant's termination of service, a Deferral Benefit equal to the amount of the Participant's Termination Deferred Benefit Account determined under paragraph 6.1. The Termination Deferred Benefit Account of a Participant whose employment has terminated shall be paid in a single sum to the terminated Participant within 30 days following termination of employment if the aggregate balance of the Deferred Benefit Account(s) of such Participant is $20,000 or less. If such aggregate balance of a Participant's Deferred Benefit Account(s) is more than $20,000, payment shall commence pursuant to the Participant's election in the Participation Agreement or in the Amendment of Payment Election Form. 7.3 Death. If a Participant dies after the commencement of payments of the Participant's Deferral Benefit, the Participant's Beneficiary shall continue to receive the remaining installments of the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account in accordance with the Participant's election pursuant to paragraph 7.6. If a Participant dies before any payments of a Deferral Benefit, the amounts to which the Participant's Beneficiary is entitled shall be determined as follows: (a) In the case of deferrals pursuant to a Participation Agreement first effective before the Transition Date: (1) Deferrals of Incentive Compensation shall be the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account value thereof. (2) Deferrals of Base Salary pursuant to Participation Agreements that required a total deferral of less than $15,000 per year allocated to Accounts A and AA during the last Plan Year of deferrals pursuant to such Participation Agreement shall be the greater of (i) the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account value thereof or (ii) ten times the amount of the elected annual Base Salary deferral. (3) Deferrals of Base Salary pursuant to Participation Agreements that required a total deferral of $15,000 or more per year allocated to Accounts A and AA during the last Plan Year of deferrals pursuant to such Participation 17
Agreement shall be determined as follows: (i) that portion of the deferral which totals $15,000 per year shall be the greater of (x) the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account value thereof and (y) ten times the amount of the elected annual Base Salary deferral, and (ii) the portion of such deferral which is in excess of $15,000 per year shall be the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account value of such excess. (4) Deferrals allocated to Accounts B and BB shall be the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account value thereof. (5) Deferrals allocated to Accounts D and DD shall be the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account value thereof. (b) In the case of deferrals pursuant to a Participation Agreement first effective on or after the Transition Date, the aggregate amount of all deferrals shall be the Retirement Deferred Benefit Account value of Accounts A, B and D. The Deferral Benefit shall be payable as provided for in paragraph 7.6. The Deferral Benefit provided above shall be in lieu of all other benefits under this Plan. 7.4 Disability. In the event of Disability while employed by the Employer before the completion of all deferrals provided for under a Participation Agreement, the Employer shall credit to the disabled Participant's Deferred Benefit Account an amount equal to the amount deferred by the Participant under the Participation Agreement during such period of Disability, but not beyond the end of the Plan Year to which the Participation Agreement applies. In the event of Disability before termination of employment or the Normal Retirement Date, the disabled Participant, unless the Participant otherwise elects under this paragraph, shall be entitled to the amount in the Participant's Retirement Deferred Benefit Account (rather than the Participant's Termination Deferred Benefit Account) determined under paragraph 6.1 as of the Determination Date next following such Disability, with payments to commence upon attainment of the Participant's Normal Retirement Date in the form specified in paragraph 7.6(a)(2) and/or 7.6(a)(3) over a 15 year period. Before payments commence under the preceding sentence, a Disabled Participant may elect, subject to Committee approval upon good cause shown: (i) to accelerate commencement of the payments to any earlier date, but not sooner than 60 days after the onset of Disability and/or (ii) to change the form of payment permitted under paragraph 7.6(a). 18
7.5 Suspension of Participation; Failure to Continue Participation. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may suspend the deferral of a Participant's Compensation upon the advanced written request of a Participant on account of financial hardship suffered by that Participant. A Participant must file any request for such suspension on or before the 15th day preceding the regular payment date on which the suspension is to take effect. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the amount, if any, that will not be deferred by the Participant as a result of the financial hardship. The suspension of any deferrals under this paragraph shall not affect amounts deferred with respect to periods before the effective date of the suspension. A Participant whose deferrals are suspended may not execute a subsequent Participation Agreement that would take effect before the beginning of the third Plan Year following the close of the Plan Year in which the suspension first took effect. In the event the Participant ceases to remain a member of the class of employees who are eligible to participate in this Plan, the Participant may elect to suspend the amount of any remaining deferral commitment in the same manner as described for other suspensions in this paragraph, except that Committee approval shall not be required. 7.6 Form of Benefit Payment. (a) Upon the happening of an event described in paragraphs 7.1, 7.2, 7.3 or 7.4 above, the Employer shall pay to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary the amount (at a time designated by the Participant in the Participation Agreement, but commencing no later than the Participant's Normal Retirement Date) specified in one of the following forms as elected by the Participant, either in the Participation Agreement or the Amendment of Payment Election Form filed by the Participant: (1) a lump sum payment. (2) with respect to balances in Accounts A and AA, an annual payment of a fixed amount that shall amortize the Deferred Benefit Account balance in equal annual payments of principal and interest over a period from 2 to 20 years. For purposes of determining the amount of the annual payment, the assumed rate of interest on Accounts A and AA shall be 19
the average of the applicable Interest Yield as of each Determination Date for the 60 months preceding the initial annual installment payment. (3) with respect to balances in Accounts B and BB, an annual payment over a period from 2 to 20 years, each such payment having a value, as determined pursuant to paragraph 6.5(a)(6), of the number of FON Share Units equal to (i) the number of FON Share Units in the accounts on the Determination Date immediately following the event described in paragraph 7.1, 7.2, 7.3 or 7.4, divided by (ii) the number of annual installments elected. During the period that a Participant is receiving a distribution from Account B or BB, FON Share Unit dividends will be added to the Accounts in accordance with subparagraph 6.5(a)(4). Such FON Share Unit dividends shall be valued in the same manner as previously described, and all such FON Share Units accruing after a distribution from Accounts B or BB is made shall be paid to the Participant with the next distribution from the account. (4) with respect to balances in Accounts D and DD, an annual payment over a period from 2 to 20 years, each such payment having a value, as determined pursuant to paragraph 6.5(b)(5), of the number of PCS Share Units equal to (i) the number of PCS Share Units in the accounts on the Determination Date immediately following the event described in paragraph 7.1, 7.2, 7.3 or 7.4, divided by (ii) the number of annual installments elected. During the period that a Participant is receiving a distribution from Account D or DD, PCS Share Unit dividends will be added to the Accounts in accordance with subparagraph 6.5(b)(3). Such PCS Share Unit dividends shall be valued in the same manner as previously described, and all such PCS Share Units accruing after a distribution from Accounts D or DD is made shall be paid to the Participant with the next distribution from the account. (b) A Participant may change the form in which such Participant's benefits shall be paid by filing an Amendment of Payment Election Form indicating such change at least 13 months before the date upon which the payments to be made are determined. No such Amendment of Payment Election Form shall change the amount 20
elected to be deferred in the Participation Agreement to which it relates, nor the time elected for commencement of benefit payments. (c) In the absence of a Participant's election under subparagraph 7.6(a), benefits shall be paid in the form specified in subparagraph 7.6(a)(2), 7.6(a)(3), and 7.6(a)(4) over a 15 year period, except as provided in paragraph 7.2. In the event of a Disabled Participant, payment shall be in the form described in paragraph 7.4. (d) If a Participant's Beneficiary dies before payment of the Participant's Deferred Benefits are complete, payments will continue to be made to the estate of the Beneficiary in accordance with the Participant's election pursuant to this paragraph 7.6. 7.7 Withholding; Payroll Taxes. To the extent required by the law in effect at the time payments are made, the Employer shall withhold from payments made hereunder any taxes required to be withheld from an employee's wages for the federal or any state or local government. 7.8 Commencement of Payments. Unless otherwise provided, payments under this Plan shall begin within 60 days following receipt of notice by the Plan Administrator of an event which entitles a Participant (or a Beneficiary) to payments under this Plan, or at such earlier date as may be determined by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Plan. All payments shall be made as of the first day of the month. ARTICLE VIII BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION 8.1 Beneficiary Designation. Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (both principal as well as contingent) to whom payment under this Plan shall be paid in the event of the Participant's death before complete distribution to the Participant of the benefits due the Participant under the Plan. 8.2 Amendments. Any Beneficiary Designation may be changed by a Participant by the written filing of such change on a form prescribed by the Company. The filing of a new Beneficiary Designation form will cancel all Beneficiary Designations previously filed. 21
8.3 No Beneficiary Designation. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, then the Participant's designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be the person or persons surviving the Participant in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor, share and share alike: (a) The surviving Spouse; (b) The Participant's children, except that if any of the children predecease the Participant but leave issue surviving, then such issue shall take by right of representation the share their parent would have taken if living; (c) The Participant's personal representative (executor or administrator). 8.4 Effect of Payment. The payment to the Beneficiary or the Beneficiary's estate shall completely discharge the Employer's obligations relating to the Participant under this Plan. ARTICLE IX AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 9.1 Amendment. The Board may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease or restrict any Deferred Benefit Account at the time of such amendment. 9.2 Right to Terminate. The Board may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to new elections to defer if, in its judgment, the continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of the Company. The Board may also terminate the Plan in its entirety at any time, and upon any such termination, each Participant (a) who is then receiving a Deferral Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum, or over such period of time as determined by the Company, the then remaining balance in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account, and (b) who has not received a Deferral Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum, or over such period of time as determined by the Company, the balance in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account. 22
ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS 10.1 Unsecured General Creditor. Participants and their Beneficiaries shall have no legal or equitable rights, interest or claims in any property or assets of the Employer, nor shall they be Beneficiaries of, or have any rights, claims or interests in any life insurance policies, annuity contracts or the proceeds therefrom owned or which may be acquired by the Employer ('Policies'). Such Policies or other assets of the Employer shall not be held under any trust for the benefit of Participants or their Beneficiaries or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of the Employer under this Plan. Any and all of the Employer's assets and Policies shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of the Employer. The Employer's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Employer to pay money in the future. 10.2 Nonassignability. Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable. No part of the amounts payable shall, before actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 10.3 Not a Contract of Service. The terms and conditions of this Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of service between the Employer and the Participant, and the Participant (or the Participant's Beneficiary) shall have no rights against the Employer except as may otherwise be specifically provided herein. Moreover, nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Employer or to interfere with the right of the Employer to discipline or discharge the Participant at any time. 10.4 Protective Provisions. A Participant will cooperate with the Employer by furnishing any and all information requested by the Employer, in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, and by 23
taking such physical examinations as the Employer may deem necessary and taking such other action as may be requested by the Employer. 10.5 Applicable Law. The Plan, and any Participation Agreement related thereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Kansas, without regard to the principles of conflicts of law. 10.6 Affiliated Entities. For purposes of this Plan, a Participant who becomes employed by Global One (an "Affiliated Entity") shall not be considered to have terminated employment with the Company or a subsidiary of the Company until the Participant's employment is terminated with all Affiliated Entities without becoming employed by the Company or its subsidiaries. 24
Appendix A Summary of Amendments to the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan Sprint's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Sprint EDCP") was amended effective January 1, 2001 to merge the executive deferred compensation plan maintained by Sprint Spectrum, L.P. (the "PCS EDCP") with and into Sprint EDCP. In addition, the Sprint EDCP was amended to preserve certain features of the PCS EDCP with respect to participants' account balances under that plan, as follows: 1. Form and Timing of Distributions. The form of benefit and timing of distribution elected by participants in the PCS EDCP, as well as the requirement that distribution will be made in a lump sum upon termination of employment, continues to apply with respect to the account balances attributable to the PCS EDCP. 2. Hardship Distributions. Provisions for hardship distributions under the PCS EDCP continue to apply with respect to the account balances attributable to the PCS EDCP. 3. Provisions for Disability. Provisions calling for benefits to commence for disabled participants at age 55, or sooner under certain circumstances, continue to apply with respect to the account balances attributable to the PCS EDCP.

Exhibit 10.3 Directors' Deferred Fee Plan ARTICLE I PURPOSE The purpose of the Sprint Corporation Directors' Deferred Fee Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan") is to provide funds upon termination of service or death for Directors (and their Beneficiaries) of Sprint Corporation. It is intended that the Plan will aid in retaining and attracting Directors of exceptional ability by providing such Directors with a means to supplement their standard of living. ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 2.1 Account Transfer Request. "Account Transfer Request" means a written notice, in a form prescribed by the Company, by a Participant to transfer all or any portion of one Deferred Benefit Account to another Deferred Benefit Account as provided for in paragraph 6.7. 2.2 Amendment of Payment Election Form. "Amendment of Payment Election Form" means a written notice, in a form prescribed by the Company, filed with the Company by a Participant to change the manner in which such Participant's Deferral Benefits are to be paid. 2.3 Beneficiary. "Beneficiary" means the person, persons, or entity designated by the Participant, as provided in Article VIII, to receive any benefits payable under the Plan. Any Participant Beneficiary Designation shall be made in a written instrument filed with the Company and shall become effective only when received, accepted, and acknowledged in writing by the Company. 2.4 Board "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company. 2.5 Committee. "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board. 2.6 Company. "Company" means Sprint Corporation, or any successor thereto.
2.7 Deferral Benefit. "Deferral Benefit" means the benefit payable to a Participant on the Participant's death or termination of service as a Director, as calculated in Article VII hereof. 2.8 Deferred Benefit Account. "Deferred Benefit Account" means the accounts maintained on the books of account of the Company for each Participant pursuant to Article VI. Separate Deferred Benefit Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant. More than one Deferred Benefit Account shall be maintained for each Participant to reflect (a) separate deferral elections made pursuant to separately executed Participation Agreements, (b) Account A, Account B, Account D, Account AA, Account BB, and Account DD elections made by each Participant in each such Participation Agreement, and (c) One Time Grants. A Participant's Deferred Benefit Account shall be used solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary pursuant to this Plan. A Participant's Deferred Benefit Account shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind. 2.9 Determination Date. "Determination Date" means the date on which the amount of a Participant's Deferred Benefit Account is determined as provided in Article VI hereof. The last day of each calendar month shall be a Determination Date. 2.10 Director. "Director" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company who is not an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries. 2.11 Fee. "Fee" means any cash compensation paid to a Director for his services as a Director other than a distribution under this Plan. 2.12 FON Share Unit. "FON Share Unit" means a measure of participation under the Plan having a value based on the market value of one share of FON Common Stock, Series 1, of the Company. 2.13 Interest Yield. "Interest Yield" means, with respect to any calendar month, (a) in the case of balances in Account AA, three percentage points over the composite yield on Moody's Seasoned Corporate Bond Yield Index for the preceding calendar month as determined from Moody's Bond Record published by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. (or any successor thereto), or, if such monthly yield is no longer published, a substantially similar average selected by the Company, and (b) in the case of balances in Account A, the greater of (i) the prime rate in effect at Citibank, N.A., at the opening of business on the first business day of the month, or if said bank, for any reason, no longer publishes its prime rate, 2
the prime rate similarly determined of another major bank selected by the Company and (ii) six percent per annum. 2.14 New Director. "New Director" means a Director who had not accumulated at least five years of service as a Director as of December 10, 1996 and any Director who is first elected after such date. Each New Director is entitled to a One Time Grant. 2.15 One Time Grant, "One Time Grant" means a one time grant to New Directors of FON Share Units credited into Account B and PCS Share Units credited into Account D. The number of FON Share Units and the number of PCS Share Units to be granted to each New Director are determined by the Committee. 2.16 Participant. "Participant" means any New Director and any Director who elects to participate by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Article IV. 2.17 Participation Agreement. "Participation Agreement" means the agreement, in a form prescribed by the Company, filed by a Participant before the beginning of the period in which the Participant's Fees are to be deferred pursuant to the Plan. A new Participation Agreement shall be filed by the Participant for each separate Fee deferral election. 2.18 PCS Share Unit. "PCS Share Unit" means a measure of participation under the Plan having a value based on the market value of a share of PCS Common Stock, Series 1, of the Company. 2.19 Plan. "Plan" means the Sprint Corporation Directors' Deferred Fee Plan as set forth in this document. This Plan is the successor to, and comprises an amendment and revision of, the United Telecommunications, Inc., 1985 Directors' Deferred Fee Plan adopted February 12, 1985. 2.20 Plan Administrator. "Plan Administrator" means the person appointed by the Company to represent the Company in the administration of this Plan. 2.21 Plan Year. Until the 2005 Plan Year, "Plan Year" means a twelve-month period commencing May 1st and ending the following April 30th. The first Plan Year commenced May 1, 1985. The 2005 Plan Year will be the eight month period commencing May 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2005, and all subsequent Plan Years will be twelve month periods commencing January 1 of a year and ending on December 31 of the same year. 3
2.22 Recapitalization Date. "Recapitalization Date" means November 23, 1998. 2.23 Share Units. "Share Units" means the Share Units credited to Accounts B and BB prior to the recapitalization of the Company's Common Stock on the Recapitalization Date. 2.24 Spouse. "Spouse" means a Participant's wife or husband who was lawfully married to the Participant upon the Participant's death or severance from service. 2.25 Transition Date. "Transition Date" means May 1, 1990. ARTICLE III ADMINISTRATION 3.1 Plan Administrator; Company and Committee; Duties. This Plan shall be administered by the Plan Administrator. Decisions of the Plan Administrator may be reviewed by the Company through the Committee. Members of the Committee may be Participants under this Plan. The Company shall also have the authority to make, amend interpret, and enforce all appropriate rules and regulations for the administration of this Plan and decide or resolve any and all questions including interpretations of this Plan as may arise in connection with the Plan. 3.2 Binding Effect of Decisions. The decision or action of the Company in respect to any question aris ing out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan and the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder shall be final and conclusive and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan unless a written appeal is received by the Company within sixty days of the disputed action. The appeal will be reviewed by the Committee, and its decision shall be final, conclusive, and binding on the Participant and on all persons claiming by, through, or under the Participant. ARTICLE IV PARTICIPATION 4.1 Participation. Participation in the Plan shall be limited to New Directors and Directors, under age 70, who elect to participate in the Plan by filing a Participation Agreement with the Company. A New Director shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the calendar month immediately following the date on which the New Director 4
has served 15 days on the Board. Except as provided below, a Participation Agreement must be filed by the enrollment deadline established by the Plan Administrator for a Plan Year, which deadline must be no later than the last business day of the calendar year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the Participant's participation under the agreement will commence. The election to participate shall apply to Fees earned on or after the first day of the Plan Year following receipt by the Company of a properly completed and executed Participation Agreement. With respect to an individual becoming a Director during a Plan Year who thereby becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, an initial Participation Agreement may be filed within 30 days of the date on which the Director becomes eligible, and such election to participate shall be effective on the first day of the month following the Company's receipt thereof, except that elections not received by the Company before the 15th day of any calendar month shall be effective no earlier than the first day of the second month following the month of receipt. 4.2 Amount of Deferral and Length of Participation. A Participant may elect in any Participation Agreement to defer up to 100% of the Fees that are expected at the time of election to be earned in the Plan Year to which the Participation Agreement relates and all subsequent Plan Years until changed by the Participant's filing of a new Participant Agreement, provided, the minimum amount of Fees that may be deferred shall, in each case, be $5,000 per year or 100% of Fees payable, whichever is less. (a) The deferral percentage in each Participation Agreement shall be applied to the Participant's Fees earned during the period of election. (b) A Participant's election to defer Fees shall be irrevocable upon the filing of the respective Participation Agreement; provided, however, that the deferral of Fees under any Participation Agreement may be suspended or amended as provided in paragraphs 7.3 or 9.1. If a Participant desires to change the percentage of Fees deferred or desires to cease deferring Fees, the Participant must file a new Participation Agreement. Such new Participation Agreement must be filed no later than the last business day of the calendar year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the new Participation Agreement is to take effect. The new Participation Agreement shall be effective as to Fees earned in Plan Years beginning after the last day of the Plan Year in 5
which the agreement is filed with the Company. Any previously filed Participation Agreement will no longer apply to the deferral of fees. Only one Participation Agreement will be in effect for new deferrals in each Plan Year. In the event a Participant elects to defer Fees pursuant to a new Participation Agreement, the new election shall be treated as an arrangement for which a separate Deferred Benefit Account shall be maintained and separate Deferral Benefits shall be payable. ARTICLE V DEFERRED FEES 5.1 Elective Deferred Fees. The amount of Fees that a Participant elects to defer in the Participation Agreement executed by the Participant, with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan, shall be credited by the Company to the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account throughout each Plan Year as the Participant is paid. The amount credited to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Account shall equal the amount deferred, except to the extent that the Company is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts related to the Participant's deferred fees pursuant to any federal, state or local law. In the event withholding is required, the amount required to be withheld shall first be taken from the Participant's fees that have not been deferred. If these fees are not sufficient to meet the withholding obligation, the remainder will be taken from the amount deferred. 5.2 Vesting of Deferred Benefit Account. Participants shall be 100% vested in their Deferred Benefit Accounts, except for the Account B and Account D resulting from a One Time Grant. The FON Share Units and PCS Share Units granted as part of a One Time Grant will vest at the rate of 50% on the fifth anniversary of the Participant's election as a Director and 10% per year on the sixth through tenth anniversaries of such election. The FON Share Units and PCS Share Units resulting from dividend credits on such FON Share Units and PCS Share Units will vest at the same time as such FON Share Units and PCS Share Units vest. Any FON Share Units and PCS Share Units that have not vested at the time of the Participant's termination of service as a Director shall be forfeited. ARTICLE VI DEFERRED BENEFIT ACCOUNT 6.1 Determination of Account. Each Participant's Deferred Benefit Account, as of each Determination Date, shall consist of the balance of 6
the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account as of the immediately preceding Determination Date plus the Participant's elective deferred Fees withheld since the immediately preceding Determination Date pursuant to paragraph 5.1 and plus amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account pursuant to paragraphs 6.4 and 6.5. The Deferred Benefit Account of each Participant shall be reduced by the amount of all distributions, if any, made from such Deferred Benefit Account since the preceding Determination Date. 6.2 Type of Deferral. A Participant may elect to have any portion of the amount deferred credited to Account A (fixed income return), or to Account B (FON Share Units). The initial election shall be made by a properly executed Participation Agreement. An election to change the apportionment of deferred amounts between Accounts A and B may be made by a Participant filing with the Plan Administrator a revised Participation Agreement indicating such change on or before the last business day of a calendar year. The revised Participation Agreement shall be deemed a continuation of the initial Participation Agreement to which it relates. The revised Participation Agreement shall be effective for Fees earned in Plan Years beginning after the date it is filed. 6.3 Creation of Accounts AA, BB, D, and DD. (a) Accounts AA and BB. As of the start of business on the Transition Date, all amounts standing to the credit of each Participant in Account A were transferred to an Account AA. As of the start of business on the Transition Date, amounts standing to the credit of each Participant in Account B that were attributable to prior transfers from Account A into Account B were transferred to an Account BB. The amount of such transfers was an amount equal to the sum of the dollar amount of all transfers from Account A to Account B during the period beginning on the effective date of the Participation Agreement and ending on the Transition Date. For all purposes of this Plan, except as otherwise noted in this Plan, Account AA shall be treated in the same manner as Account A, and Account BB shall be treated in the same manner as Account B. (b) Accounts D and DD. As of the Recapitalization Date, there was credited to an Account D and DD, created for each Participant having a positive balance in an Account B or BB with respect to any Plan Year, a number of PCS Share Units determined as follows: 7
(1) one-half of a PCS Share Unit in Account D for each Share Unit in Account B for such Participant for such Plan Year as of the Recapitalization Date; and (2) one-half of a PCS Share Unit in Account DD for each Share Unit in Account BB for such Participant for such Plan Year as of the Recapitalization Date. 6.4 Maintenance of Accounts A and AA. As of each Determination Date, the Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts A and AA shall be increased by the amount of interest earned since the preceding Determination Date based on the Interest Yield. Interest shall be credited on the average of the balances of the Deferred Benefit Account on the Determination Date (before crediting the interest) and on the last preceding Determination Date, but after the Deferred Benefit Account has been adjusted for any contributions or distributions to be credited or deducted for each such day. 6.5 Maintenance of Share Unit Accounts. Accounts B and BB and Accounts D and DD shall maintain balances in FON Share Units and PCS Share Units, respectively. (a) Maintenance of Accounts B and BB. (1) Conversion of Share Units into FON Share Units. As of the Recapitalization Date, each Share Unit in Accounts B and BB was converted into a FON Share Unit. (2) Conversion between Dollar Amounts and FON Share Units in Accounts B and BB. When an amount is to be added to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts B or BB, it shall be converted into FON Share Units, or fractions thereof, by dividing the amount to be credited by the closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. When a number of FON Share Units is to be subtracted from a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts B or BB, such number of FON Share Units shall be converted into a dollar amount by multiplying such number of FON Share Units by the closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. 8
(3) Dividends on FON Share Units. When a dividend is declared and paid by the Company on its FON Common Stock, Series 1, an amount shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts B and BB as though the same dividend had been paid on the FON Share Units in such accounts as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the record date for the dividend, and such amount shall be converted to FON Share Units. Such amount shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following the payment of the dividend. (4) Effect of Recapitalization. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, or other corporate reorganization involving the FON Common Stock, Series 1, the Company shall make equitable adjustment to a Participant's Accounts B and BB as may be necessary to give effect to such change in the Company's capital structure. (5) Conversion of FON Share Units to Dollars on Distribution. FON Share Units in Accounts B and BB shall be converted to an equivalent dollar amount before any distribution thereof to a Participant pursuant to Article VII. For purposes of distribution, the value of a FON Share Unit shall be the average closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day of each of (i) the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the date of distribution or (ii) the smaller number of calendar months (including part of a month) elapsed from the Recapitalization Date to such distribution. If a Participant elects payment in other than a lump sum, Share Units shall be so converted to a dollar amount with respect to each payment made in the distribution. During the period of distribution, dividends and other equitable adjustments shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts B and BB in accordance with paragraphs 6.5(a)(3) and 6.5(a)(4). (b) Maintenance of Accounts D and DD. (1) Conversion between Dollar Amounts and PCS Share Units in Accounts D and DD. When an amount is to be added to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts D or DD, it shall be converted into PCS Share Units, or fractions 9
thereof, by dividing the amount to be credited by the closing price of the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. When a number of PCS Share Units is to be subtracted from a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts D or DD, such number of PCS Share Units shall be converted into a dollar amount by multiplying such number of PCS Share Units by the closing price of the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. (2) Dividends on PCS Share Units. When a dividend is declared and paid by the Company on its PCS Common Stock, Series 1, an amount shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts D and DD as though the same dividend had been paid on the PCS Share Units in such accounts as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the record date for the dividend, and such amount shall be converted to PCS Share Units. Such amount shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following the payment of the dividend. (3) Effect of Recapitalization. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, or other corporate reorganization involving the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, the Company shall make equitable adjustment to a Participant's Accounts D and DD as may be necessary to give effect to such change in the Company's capital structure. In the event a corporate reorganization results in the conversion of PCS Share Units into FON Share Units, all FON Share Units held in Accounts D and DD following the reorganization shall be transferred to the Accounts B and BB, respectively. The Accounts D and DD shall then be eliminated. (4) Conversion of PCS Share Units to Dollars on Distribution. PCS Share Units in Accounts D and DD shall be converted to an equivalent dollar amount before any distribution thereof to a Participant pursuant to Article VII. For purposes of distribution, the value of a PCS Share Unit shall be the average closing price of the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day of each of (i) the 12 calendar months 10
immediately preceding the date of distribution or (ii) the smaller number of calendar months (including part of a month) elapsed from the Recapitalization Date to such distribution. If a Participant elects payment in other than a lump sum, PCS Share Units shall be so converted to a dollar amount with respect to each payment made in the distribution. During the period of distribution, dividends and other equitable adjustments shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts D, and DD in accordance with paragraphs 6.5(b)(2) and 6.5(b)(3). 6.6 Statement of Accounts. The Company shall submit to each Participant, within 120 days after the close of each Plan Year, a statement in such form as the Company deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts A and AA, B and BB, and D and DD, in each case as of the last day of the preceding Plan Year. 6.7 Transfer Between Accounts. Within the limitations of this paragraph 6.7, a Participant may elect, by executing an Account Transfer Request: (1) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account A to Account B or Account D, (2) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account B to Account A or Account D, (3) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account D to Account A or Account B, (4) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account AA to Account BB or Account DD, (5) to transfer all or any portion of his Account BB to Account AA or Account DD, and (6) to transfer all or any portion of his Account DD to Account AA or Account BB. Such election shall be effective on the last day of the calendar month in which the Plan Administrator receives the Participant's executed Account Transfer Request. Transfers may not be made more than four times in any Plan Year, and no such transfer may be made unless a period of at least three months shall have elapsed from the effective date of the most recent such transfer (whether it occurred in the current Plan Year or not) to the effective date of the current transfer. No part of the Account B or the Account D resulting from a One Time Grant may be transferred to any other account. ARTICLE VII BENEFITS 7.1 Termination of Service as Director. Subject to paragraph 7.4 below, upon any termination of service of the Participant for reasons other 11
than the Participant's death, the Company shall pay to the Participant a Deferral Benefit equal to the amount of the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account determined under paragraph 6.1 thereof, but excluding any unvested FON Share Units or PCS Share Units. 7.2 Death. If a Participant dies after the commencement of payments of the Participant's Deferral Benefit, the Participant's Beneficiary shall continue to receive the remaining balance of the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account in accordance with the Participant's election pursuant to paragraph 7.4. If a Participant dies before any payments of a Deferral Benefit, the amounts to which the Participant's Beneficiary is entitled shall be determined as follows: (a) Accounts A, B, BB, D, and DD shall be the Deferred Benefit Account values thereof excluding any unvested FON Share Units or PCS Share Units, and (b) Account AA shall be the greater of (i) the Deferred Benefit Account value thereof and (ii) ten times the amount of the elected annual fee deferral allocated to Account AA pursuant to the Participation Agreement as revised on the date of the Participant's death, subject to such conditions relating to the Participant's health as the Company may impose. The Deferral Benefit shall be payable as provided for in paragraph 7.4. If a Participant's Beneficiary dies before payments of the Participant's Deferral Benefit are complete, payments will continue to be made to the estate of the beneficiary in accordance with the Participant's election pursuant to paragraph 7.4. The Deferral Benefit provided above shall be in lieu of all other benefits under this Plan. 7.3 Suspension of Participation; Failure to Continue Participation. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may suspend the deferral of a Participant's Fees upon the advanced written request of a Participant on account of financial hardship suffered by that Participant. A Participant must file any request for suspension on or before the 15th day preceding the regular payment date on which the suspension is to take effect. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the amount, if any, that will not be deferred by the Participant as a result of the financial hardship. The suspension of any deferrals under this paragraph shall not affect amounts deferred with respect to periods before the 12
effective date of the suspension. A Participant whose deferrals are suspended may not execute a subsequent Participation Agreement that would take effect before the beginning of the third Plan Year following the close of the Plan Year in which the suspension first took effect. 7.4 Form of Benefit Payment (a) Upon the happening of an event described in paragraphs 7.1 or 7.2 above, the Company shall pay to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary the amount specified therein (at a time designated in the Participation Agreement, but commencing no later than the Company's mandatory termination date for Directors) in one of the following forms as elected by the Participant, either in the Participation Agreement or the Amendment of Payment Election Form filed by the Participant: (1) a lump sum payment. (2) with respect to balances in Accounts A and AA, an annual payment of a fixed amount that shall amortize the Deferred Benefit Account balance in equal annual payments of principal and interest over a period from 2 to 20 years. For purposes of determining the amount of the annual payment, the assumed rate of interest on Accounts A and AA shall be the average of the applicable Interest Yield as of each Determination Date for the 60 months preceding the initial annual installment payment. (3) with respect to balances in Accounts B and BB, an annual payment over a period from 2 to 20 years. Each payment shall be the value, as determined pursuant to paragraph 6.5(a)(5), of the number of FON Share Units equal to (i) the number of FON Share Units in the accounts on the Determination Date immediately following the event described in paragraphs 7.1 or 7.2, divided by (ii) the number of annual installments elected. During the period that a Participant is receiving a distribution from Account B or BB, FON Share Unit dividends will be added to the Accounts in accordance with subparagraph 6.5(a)(3). Such FON Share Unit dividends shall be valued in the same manner as previously described, and the value of all such FON Share Units accruing after a distribution from Accounts B or BB is made shall be paid to the Participant with the next distribution from the account. 13
(4) With respect to balances in Accounts D and DD, an annual payment over a period from 2 to 20 years. Each payment shall be the value, as determined pursuant to paragraph 6.5(b)(4), of the number of PCS Share Units equal to (i) the number of PCS Share Units in the accounts on the Determination Date immediately following the event described in paragraphs 7.1 or 7.2, divided by (ii) the number of annual installments elected. During the period that a Participant is receiving a distribution from Account D or DD, PCS Share Unit dividends will be added to the Accounts in accordance with subparagraph 6.5(b)(2) hereof. Such PCS Share Unit dividends shall be valued in the same manner as previously described, and the value of all such PCS Share Units accruing after a distribution from Accounts D or DD is made shall be paid to the Participant with the next distribution from the account. (b) A Participant may change the form in which the Participant's benefits shall be paid by filing an Amendment of Payment Election Form indicating such change at least 13 months before the date upon which the initial payment to be made is determined. No such Amendment of Payment Election Form shall change the amount elected to be deferred in the Participation Agreement to which it relates, nor the time elected for commencement of benefit payments. (c) In the absence of a Participant's election under subparagraph 7.4(a), benefits shall be paid in the form specified in subparagraphs 7.4(a)(2), 7.4(a)(3), and 7.4(a)(4) over a 15 year period. 7.5 Withholding; Payroll Taxes. To the extent required by the law in effect at the time payments are made, the Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder any taxes required to be withheld from a Director's fees for the federal or any state or local government. 7.6 Commencement of Payments. Unless otherwise provided, payments under this Plan shall begin within 60 days following receipt of notice by the Company of an event that entitles a Participant (or a Beneficiary) to payments under this Plan, or at such earlier date as may be determined by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Plan. All payments shall be made as of the first day of the month. 14
ARTICLE VIII BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION 8.1 Beneficiary Designation. Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as the Participant's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (both principal as well as contingent) to whom payment under this Plan shall be paid in the event of the Participant's death before complete distribution to the Participant of the benefits due the Participant under the Plan. 8.2 Amendments. Any Beneficiary Designation may be changed by a Participant by the written filing of such change on a form prescribed by the Company. The filing of a new Beneficiary Designation form will cancel all Beneficiary Designations previously filed. 8.3 No Beneficiary Designation. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, then the Participant's designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be the person or persons surviving the Participant in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor, share and share alike: (a) The surviving Spouse; (b) The Participant's children, except that if any of the children predecease the Participant but leave issue surviving, then such issue shall take by right of representation the share their parent would have taken if living; (c) The Participant's personal representative (executor or administrator). 8.4 Effect of Payment. The payment to the Participant's Beneficiary or the Beneficiaries' estate shall completely discharge the Company's obligations relating to the Participant under this Plan. ARTICLE IX AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 9.1 Amendment. The Board may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease or restrict any Deferred Benefit Account at the time of such amendment. 9.2 Right to Terminate. The Board may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to new elections to defer if, in its judgment, the 15
continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of the Company. The Board may also terminate the Plan in its entirety at any time, and upon any such termination, each Participant (a) who is then receiving a Deferral Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum, or over such period of time as determined by the Company, the then remaining balance in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account, and (b) who has not received a Deferral Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum, or over such period of time as determined by the Company, the balance in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account. ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS 10.1 Unsecured General Creditor. Participants and their Beneficiaries shall have no legal or equitable rights, claims, or interests in any property or assets of the Company or its subsidiaries, nor shall they be Beneficiaries of, or have any rights, claims, or interests in any life insurance policies, annuity contracts or the proceeds therefrom owned or that may be acquired by the Company ("Policies"). Such Policies or other assets of the Company and its subsidiaries shall not be held under any trust for the benefit of Participants or their Beneficiaries or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of the Company under this Plan. Any and all of such assets and Policies shall be and remain the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to pay money in the future. 10.2 Nonassignability. Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable. No part of the amounts payable shall, before actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony, or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 10.3 Not a Contract of Service. The terms and conditions of this Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of service between the 16
Company and the Participant, and the Participant (or the Participant's Beneficiary) shall have no rights against the Company except as may otherwise be specifically provided herein. Moreover, nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained as a Director. 10.4 Protective Provisions. A Participant will cooperate with the Company by furnishing any and all information requested by the Company, in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, by taking such physical examinations as the Company may deem necessary, and by taking such other action as may be requested by the Company. 10.5 Applicable Law. The Plan, and any Participation Agreement related thereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Kansas, without regard to the principles of conflicts of law. 17

Exhibit 10.4 1997 LONG-TERM STOCK INCENTIVE PROGRAM Section 1. Purpose. The purposes of the Sprint 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program (the "Plan") are to encourage Directors of Sprint Corporation (the "Company") and officers and selected key employees of the Company and its Affiliates to acquire a proprietary and vested interest in the growth and performance of the Company, to generate an increased incentive to contribute to the Company's future success and prosperity, thus enhancing the value of the Company for the benefit of stockholders, and to enhance the ability of the Company and its Affiliates to attract and retain individuals of exceptional talent upon whom, in large measure, the sustained progress, growth and profitability of the Company depends. Section 2. Definitions. As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: (a) "Affiliate" shall mean (i) any Person that directly, or through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company or (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee. (b) "Award" shall mean any Option, Restricted Stock Award, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent, Other Stock Unit Award, or any other right, interest, or option relating to Shares granted pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. (c) "Award Agreement" shall mean any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document evidencing any Award granted hereunder and signed by both the Company and the Participant. (d) "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company. (e) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. (f) "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, composed of not less than two directors each of whom is a Non-Employee Director. (g) "Company" shall mean Sprint Corporation. (h) "Non-Employee Director" shall have the meaning provided for in Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act, 17 CFR ss.240.16b-3(b)(3), as amended. (i) "Dividend Equivalent" shall mean any right granted pursuant to Section 14(h) hereof.
(j) "Employee" shall mean any employee of the Company or of any Affiliate. (k) "Executive Officer" shall mean an officer of the Company that is subject to the liability provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. (l) "Fair Market Value" shall mean, with respect to any property, the market value of such property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the Committee; except that the "Fair Market Value" of a share of common stock of the Company for purposes of Section 11 shall mean the average of the high and low prices of the common stock for composite transactions, as published by major newspapers, for the date in question or, if no trade of the common stock shall have been made on that date, the next preceding date on which there was a trade of common stock. (m) "Grant Date" shall mean the date as of which an Award is made to a Participant. For an Option, the Grant Date cannot be a date earlier than the date of the action granting the Option. (n) "Incentive Stock Option" shall mean an Option granted under Section 6 hereof that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto. (o) "Normal Retirement" with respect to any Employee, shall mean Retirement at or later than an age qualifying as "normal retirement" under the Company's defined benefit pension plan, whether or not the person is a participant in that plan and, with respect to any Outside Director, termination of service as an Outside Director at the mandatory retirement age or term limit for members of the Board under its policies, as amended from time to time, even if the Outside Director serves on the board of an Affiliate. (p) "Non-Qualified Stock Option" shall mean an Option granted to a Participant under Section 6 hereof that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option. (q) "Option" shall mean any right granted to a Participant under the Plan allowing such Participant to purchase Shares at such price or prices and during such period or periods as the Committee shall determine. (r) "Other Stock Unit Award" shall mean any right granted to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to Section 9 hereof. (s) "Outside Director" shall mean a member of the Board who is not an Employee of the Company or of any Affiliate. (t) "Participant" shall mean an Employee or Outside Director who is selected to receive an Award under the Plan. (u) "Performance Award" shall mean any Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units pursuant to Section 8 hereof. 2
(v) "Performance Period" shall mean that period established by the Committee at the time any Performance Award is granted or at any time thereafter during which any performance goals specified by the Committee with respect to such Award are to be measured. (w) "Performance Share" shall mean any grant pursuant to Section 8 hereof of a unit valued by reference to a designated number of Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, upon achievement of such performance goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish at the time of such grant or thereafter. (x) "Performance Unit" shall mean any grant pursuant to Section 8 hereof of a unit valued by reference to a designated amount of property other than Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, upon achievement of such performance goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish at the time of such grant or thereafter. (y) "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or political subdivision thereof. (z) "Resignation with Good Reason" shall mean resignation of a Participant after a Change in Control for the reasons specified in the Participant's employment agreement, or in the event a Participant has no employment agreement, or the employment agreement has no provision for resignation with good reason following a Change in Control, "Resignation with Good Reason" shall mean resignation of a Participant following the occurrence, after a Change in Control, of any one or more of the following events or circumstances without that Participant's prior written consent unless each of the events or circumstances are corrected in all material respects: (i) a substantial adverse change in the nature or status of the Participant's duties from those in effect immediately before the Change in Control, any reduction in job grade or any substantial adverse alteration of the Participant's title from that in effect immediately before the Change in Control; (ii) a reduction in the Participant's base salary as in effect immediately before the Change in Control, except for across-the-board salary reductions similarly affecting all officers of the Company and all officers of any person in control of the Company; (iii)the failure, without the Participant's consent, to pay to the Participant any portion of the Participant's current compensation within seven days of the date it is due, except pursuant to an across-the-board compensation deferral similarly affecting all officers of the Company and all officers of any person in control of the Company; (iv) (A) the relocation of the Company's principal executive offices to a location outside the metropolitan area in which such offices are located immediately before the Change in Control; or (B) the Company's 3
requiring the Participant to be based anywhere other than the Company's principal executive offices except for required travel on the Company's business to an extent substantially consistent with Participant's present business travel obligations; or (C) the Company's requiring the Participant to travel to an extent substantially inconsistent with the Participant's business travel obligations as in effect immediately before the Change in Control; (v) a substantial and involuntary change in the physical conditions under or in which the Participant is expected to perform the Participant's duties, other than a change similarly affecting all officers of the Company and all officers of any person in control of the Company; (vi) the Company's failure to continue in effect any compensation plan in which the Participant participated immediately before the Change in Control and that is material to the Participant's total compensation, including but not limited to the Management Incentive Plan or any substitute plans adopted before the Change in Control, unless an equitable arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to the terminated plan, or the Company's failure to continue the Participant's participation therein (or in such substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not materially less favorable, both in terms of the amount of benefits provided and the level of the Participant's participation relative to other Participants, as existed at the time of the Change in Control; (vii)the Company's failure to continue to provide the Participant with benefits substantially similar in the aggregate to those the Participant enjoyed under any of the Company's benefit plans in which the Participant was participating at the time of the Change in Control; the taking of any action by the Company that would directly or indirectly materially reduce any of such benefits or deprive the Participant of any material fringe benefit enjoyed by Participant at the time of the Change in Control; or the failure by the Company to provide the Participant with the number of paid vacation days to which the Participant is entitled on the basis of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company's normal vacation policy in effect at the time of the Change in Control; unless, in any of the foregoing events in this clause (viii), an equitable arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to such benefits; (viii) the Company's failure to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to assume and agree to perform any employment agreement between the Participant and the Company in effect at the time of the Change in Control; or (ix) the Company's attempt to terminate the Participant's employment without complying with the procedures set forth in any employment agreement between the Participant and the Company in effect as of the Change in Control. (aa) "Restricted Stock" shall mean any Share issued with restrictions on the holder's right to sell, transfer, pledge, or assign such Share and with such other restrictions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose (including, without limitation, any restriction on the right to vote such Share, and the right 4
to receive any cash dividends), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate. (bb) "Restricted Stock Award" shall mean an award of Restricted Stock under Section 7 hereof. (cc) "Retirement" shall mean, in the case of an Employee, termination of employment by an Employee who is entitled to receive payment of pension benefits in accordance with the Sprint Retirement Pension Plan or the Employee's employer's defined benefit pension plan, if any, immediately after the Employee's Termination Date and, in the case of an Outside Director, termination of service as an Outside Director after five years of service as an Outside Director. (dd) "Seasoned Shares" means with respect to any Person, shares of common stock of the Company (i) acquired by such Person from the Company and owned by such Person for a period of at least six months; or (ii) acquired by such Person other than from the Company. (ee) "Shares" shall mean shares of Series 1 FON common stock of the Company, $2.00 par value (the "FON Stock"), and such other securities of the Company as the Committee may from time to time determine. Before the Recombination, Shares included FON Stock and Series 1 PCS Stock (the "PCS Stock") (ff) "Stockholders Meeting" shall mean the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company in each year. (gg) "Termination Date" shall mean (i) with respect to any Employee, the date on which the Employee ceases to be employed by the Company, or any Affiliate, and ceases to receive severance benefits under any applicable plan for the payment of severance benefits by the employing entity, or (ii) with respect to any Outside Director, the date on which the Outside Director's service as a director ends. (hh) "Termination for Cause" shall mean, in the case of an Employee, an involuntary termination of employment because (i) the Employee has materially breached the Company's Code of Ethics, or the code of ethics of the employer; (ii) the Employee has materially breached the Sprint Employee Agreement Regarding Property Rights and Business Practices (as it may be amended and renamed from time to time); (iii) the Employee has engaged in acts or omissions constituting dishonesty, intentional breach of a fiduciary obligation, or intentional acts of wrongdoing or misfeasance; or (iv) the Employee has acted intentionally and in bad faith in a manner that results in a material detriment to the assets, business, or prospects of the employer. In determining whether any particular Employee was Terminated for Cause, the characterization of the reason for termination used for purposes of other 5
employee benefit plans of the Company or the Employee's employer shall apply to this Plan. In the case of an Outside Director, "Termination for Cause" means removal for cause from service as a director. (ii) "Total Disability" shall mean, in the case of an Employee, termination of employment under circumstances that would make the Employee eligible to receive benefits under the employer's long-term disability plan and, in the case of Outside Directors, termination of service as an Outside Director under circumstances that would make the Outside Director eligible to receive Social Security disability benefits. (jj) "1989 Plan" shall mean the Long-Term Stock Incentive Program adopted by the Company's stockholders in 1989, as amended. (kk) "total outstanding Shares" means, with respect to the FON common stock, the total shares outstanding of FON Stock and Series 2 FON common stock. (ll) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time and as interpreted and implemented by the rules and regulations issued thereunder. Section 3. Administration. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to such orders or resolutions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as may from time to time be adopted by the Board, to: (i) select the Participants to whom Awards may from time to time be granted hereunder; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant hereunder; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder; provided, however, that Shares subject to Options granted to any individual Participant during any calendar year shall not exceed a total of 7,500,000 shares of FON Stock; (iv) determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder; (v) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be settled in cash, Shares or other property, or canceled or suspended; (vi) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances cash, Shares and other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under this Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Participant; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement entered into under the Plan; (viii) establish such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and (ix) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for administration of the Plan. Decisions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons, including the Company, any Participant, any stockholder, and any employee of the Company or of any Affiliate. The Corporate Secretary shall have the discretion and authority to establish any and all procedures, forms, and rules of a ministerial nature that the 6
Corporate Secretary considers necessary or desirable for the orderly administration of the Plan and shall have other administrative responsibilities as set forth elsewhere in the Plan. The Committee shall appoint an administrator of the Plan for purposes of interpreting and administering the provisions of Section 11 of the Plan. For purposes of this section, shares granted pursuant to the last sentence of Section 4(a) shall be counted in the year granted, not in the year first exercisable. Section 4. Shares Subject to the Plan. (a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(b), the total number of Shares available for grant under the Plan in a calendar year shall be nine tenths of one percent (0.9%) of the total outstanding Shares as of the first day of calendar year 1997, plus a number of Shares equal to the number of Shares available for grant under the 1989 Plan as of the close of business on the date of the 1997 Stockholders Meeting, for calendar year 1997, and one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the total outstanding Shares as of the first day of each such year for which the Plan is in effect beginning with calendar year 1998 and ending with calendar year 2007 plus 10,000,000 shares of FON Stock; provided that such number shall be increased in any year by the number of Shares available for grant hereunder in previous years but not covered by Awards granted hereunder in such years; and provided further, that no more than 10,000,000 shares of FON Stock shall be cumulatively available for the grant of Incentive Stock Options under the Plan. In addition, any Shares issued by the Company through the assumption or substitution of outstanding grants from an acquired company shall not reduce the shares available for grants under the Plan. Any Shares issued hereunder may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares. If any Shares subject to any Award granted hereunder or the Award itself are forfeited, cancelled, expired, or otherwise terminated without the issuance of such Shares or of other consideration in lieu of such Shares pursuant to the terms of the Award, the Shares subject to such Award, to the extent of any such forfeiture, cancellation, expiration, or termination, shall again be available for grant under the Plan. The number of shares with respect to which Options are granted in any calendar year may exceed the total number of Shares available for grant under the Plan in such year (taking into account all other Awards granted in such year), provided that the terms of the Options provide that they may only be exercised to the extent of the number of Shares available for grant at the time of exercise, and provided further that this sentence shall not be construed to increase the total number of shares reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan. (b) In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, spin-off, or other change in the corporate structure affecting the Shares, such adjustment shall be made in the aggregate number and class of Shares which may be delivered under the Plan, in the number and class of shares that may be subject to an option granted to any individual in any year under the Plan, in the number, class and option price of Shares subject to outstanding Options granted under the Plan, and in the value of, or number or class of Shares subject to, Awards granted under the Plan as may be determined to be 7
appropriate by the Committee, in its sole discretion, provided that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number. Section 5. Eligibility. Any Employee or Outside Director shall be eligible to be selected as a Participant. Section 6. Stock Options. Options may be granted hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. Any Option granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement in such form as the Committee may from time to time approve. Any such Option shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall deem desirable: (a) Exercise Price. The exercise price per Share purchasable under an Option shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided that such exercise price shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Share on the date of the grant of the Option. (b) Option Period. The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided that no Incentive Stock Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the date the Option is granted. (c) Exercisability. Options shall be exercisable at such time or times as determined by the Committee at or subsequent to grant. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at or subsequent to grant, no Incentive Stock Option shall be exercisable until the first anniversary date of the granting of the Incentive Stock Option. (d) Method of Exercise. Subject to the other provisions of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, any Option may be exercised by the Participant in whole or in part at such time or times, and the Participant may pay the exercise price in such form or forms, including, without limitation, payment by delivery of cash, Shares or other consideration (including, where permitted by law and the Committee, Awards) having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the total exercise price, or by any combination of cash, Shares and other consideration, as the Committee may permit. (e) Incentive Stock Options. In accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee, the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time of grant) of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options held by any Participant that are exercisable for the first time by such Participant during any calendar year under the Plan (and under any other benefit plans of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary corporation of the Company) shall not exceed $100,000 or, if different, the maximum limitation in effect at the time of grant under Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. The terms of any Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder shall comply in all respects with the provisions of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision, and any regulations promulgated thereunder. 8
(f) Form of Settlement. In its sole discretion, the Committee may provide, at the time of grant, that the shares to be issued upon an Option's exercise shall be in the form of Restricted Stock or other similar securities, or may reserve the right so to provide after the time of grant, or the Committee may provide that the Participant may elect to receive Restricted Stock upon an Option's exercise. (g) Standard Terms of Options. Unless the Committee, or an Executive Officer or committee of Executive Officers under Section 14(j), specifies otherwise, the terms set forth in this Section 6(g) shall apply to all Options granted under this Plan. Any Option Award Agreement that incorporates the terms of the Plan by reference shall be deemed to have incorporated the terms set forth in this Section 6(g) to the extent that these terms are not in conflict with those terms explicitly set forth in the Option Award Agreement. (i) Each Option shall be a Non-Qualified Stock Option. (ii) The Grant Date of each Option shall be the date of the Committee's action granting the Option, or the date of the action by the Executive Officer or committee of Executive Officers under Section 14(j). (iii)The Exercise Price of each Option shall be the Fair Market Value of one Share of the class of common stock subject to the Option on the Grant Date. (iv) The Option Period of each Option shall end on the close of business on the tenth anniversary of the Option's Grant Date. The Option shall not be exercisable after its Option Period. (v) Each Option shall become exercisable with respect to 25% of the number of Shares subject to the Option on each of the first four anniversaries of the Grant Date if, on such anniversary date, the Participant shall have been continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate, or continuously served as an Outside Director, from the Grant Date. (vi) Each Option may be exercised after the Participant's Termination Date only with respect to the number of Shares that were exercisable on the Participant's Termination Date (including Options exercisable under Section 6(g)(vii)). A Participant may exercise an Option before the expiration of the Option Period with respect to those shares during a limited period beginning on the Participant's Termination Date and ending (1) on the fifth anniversary of the Participant's Termination Date, if the Participant's service as an Outside Director or employment terminated by reason of the Participant's Retirement or Total Disability; (2) on the first anniversary of the Participant's Termination Date if the Participant's employment or service as an Outside Director terminated by reason of the Participant's death; (3) on the day three months following the Participant's Termination Date if the Participant terminated employment or service as an Outside Director voluntarily, for a reason other than Retirement, or involuntarily for a reason not constituting Termination for Cause. If a Participant's employment or service as an Outside Director has been Terminated for Cause, the Participant shall forfeit all outstanding Options immediately on the Participant's Termination Date. 9
An Option granted pursuant to the last sentence of Section 4(a) that was not exercisable on the Participant's Termination Date solely because the number of shares covered by the Option exceeded the number of shares available for issuance may be exercised during the period described above to the extent that shares become available for issuance during such period. (vii)Each Option shall become exercisable immediately following the Participant's Termination Date if the reason for termination was the Participant's (1) death or Total Disability; or (2) Normal Retirement and, for Participants other than Outside Directors, the Option's Grant Date was at least one year before the Participant's Termination Date. (viii) Except with respect to Options Granted to Executive Officers, each Option shall become immediately exercisable in full upon a Change in Control if (1) the Change in Control occurs at least one year after the Option's Grant Date and (2) the Participant has been an Outside Director or Employee continuously from the Option's Grant Date to the date of the Change in Control. With respect to Options Granted to Executive Officers, each Option shall become immediately exercisable in full upon the Executive Officer's involuntary termination that is not a Termination for Cause, or upon the Executive Officer's Resignation with Good Reason, following a Change in Control if (1) the Change in Control occurs at least one year after the Option's Grant Date and (2) the Participant has been an Employee continuously from the Option's Grant Date to the date of the Change in Control. If the acceleration of exercisability under this Section 6(g)(viii), together with all other payments or benefits contingent on the Change in Control within the meaning of Code Section 280G, results in any portion of such payments or benefits not being deductible by the Company as a result of the application of Code Section 280G, the benefits shall be reduced until the entire amount of the benefits is deductible. The reduction shall be effected by the exclusion of grants of Options or other Awards, or portions thereof, in the order elected by Participant until no portion of such benefits is rendered non-deductible by application of Code Section 280G. (ix) Upon the death of a Participant, all Options held by the Participant on the Participant's date of death, to the extent exercisable under their terms, may be exercised by (i) the executor or administrator of the Participant's estate, (ii) the Person or Persons to whom the Participant's rights under the Options pass by the Participant's will or the laws of descent and distribution, or (iii) the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Participant in accordance with Section 14(a). Section 7. Restricted Stock. (a) Issuance. Restricted Stock Awards may be issued hereunder to Participants, for such consideration as the Committee may determine, not less than the minimum consideration required by applicable law, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. The provisions of Restricted Stock Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient. 10
(b) Registration. Any Restricted Stock issued hereunder may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee in its sole discretion shall deem appropriate, including, without limitation, book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates. In the event any stock certificate is issued in respect of shares of Restricted Stock awarded under the Plan, such certificate shall be registered in the name of the Participant, and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Award or shall be held in escrow by the Company until all restrictions on the Restricted Stock have lapsed. (c) Forfeiture. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, upon termination of employment for any reason during the restriction period, all shares of Restricted Stock still subject to restriction shall be forfeited by the Participant and reacquired by the Company; provided that in the event of a Participant's retirement, permanent disability, other termination of employment or death, or in cases of special circumstances, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, when it finds that a waiver would be in the best interests of the Company, waive in whole or in part any or all remaining restrictions with respect to such Participant's shares of Restricted Stock. (d) Standard Terms of Restricted Stock. Unless the Committee, or an Executive Officer or committee of Executive Officers under Section 14(j), specifies otherwise, the terms set forth in this Section 7(d) shall apply to all shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Plan. Any Award Agreement relating to a grant of Restricted Stock that incorporates the terms of the Plan by reference shall be deemed to have incorporated the terms set forth in this Section 7(d) to the extent that these terms are not in conflict with those terms explicitly set forth in the Award Agreement. (i) The Grant Date of each share of Restricted Stock shall be the date of the Committee's action granting the shares, or the date of the action by the Executive Officer or committee of Executive Officers under Section 14(j). (ii) Except as provided in Section 7(d)(iii), no restricted stock shall become free of restrictions before the first anniversary date of the granting of the Restricted Stock. The Participant may extend the period of restriction on such shares (by any period or any multiple of that period determined by the Corporate Secretary) by election made at least 13 months before the date on which restrictions on shares of Restricted Stock would otherwise lapse. (iii)The restrictions on each share of Restricted Stock shall lapse immediately following the Participant's Termination Date if the reason for termination was the Participant's death or Total Disability. For grants of Restricted Stock to Employees, restrictions on each share shall also lapse immediately following (1) the date on which the Employee attains age 65, but only if the Restricted Stock has been outstanding for at least one year, or (2) the first anniversary of the Grant Date if the Employee is age 65 or older on that anniversary date. For grants of Restricted Stock to Outside Directors, restrictions on each share shall 11
also lapse immediately following the date the Outside Director fails to be elected or fails to be re-nominated to the Board, or the date of the Outside Director's Normal Retirement. If, before the restrictions on shares of Restricted Stock lapse, the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate for any other reason, the shares of Restricted Stock shall be forfeited and the Participant or his representative shall sign any document and take any other action required to assign the Restricted Stock back to the Company. (iv) Except with respect to shares of Restricted Stock granted to Executive Officers, the restrictions on each share shall lapse immediately upon a Change in Control if (1) the Change in Control occurs at least one year after the Grant Date for the shares and (2) the Participant has been an Outside Director or Employee continuously from the Share's Grant Date to the date of the Change in Control. With respect to shares of Restricted Stock Granted to Executive Officers, the restrictions on each share shall lapse immediately upon the Executive Officer's involuntary termination that is not a Termination for Cause, or upon the Executive Officer's Resignation with Good Reason, following a Change in Control if (1) the Change in Control occurs at least one year after the Share's Grant Date and (2) the Participant has been an Employee continuously from the Share's Grant Date to the date of the Change in Control. If the acceleration of vesting under this Section 7(d)(iv), together with all other payments or benefits contingent on the Change in Control within the meaning of Code Section 280G, results in any portion of such payments or benefits not being deductible by the Company as a result of the application of Code Section 280G, the benefits shall be reduced until the entire amount of the benefits is deductible. The reduction shall be effected by the exclusion of grants of shares of Restricted Stock or other Awards, or portions thereof, in the order elected by Participant until no portion of such benefits is rendered non-deductible by application of Code Section 280G. (v) If cash dividends are paid on Restricted Stock, Participants who hold Restricted Stock on the dividend record date will receive, on the dividend payment date, the cash dividend. If non-cash dividends are paid on the Restricted Stock, and the Participant holds the Restricted Stock on the dividend record date, the Participant's vesting date of the non-cash dividend will be the same as the Restricted Stock to which the non-cash dividend was attributable. (vi) On the vesting date, the Company will withhold from those shares of Restricted Stock that otherwise would be received upon the lapse of restrictions, a number of whole shares having a fair market value equal to the amount of FICA, Medicare, or any other required withholding then due, unless the Participant elects to pay the withholding obligation in cash or by delivering to the Corporate Secretary Seasoned Shares. Any fractional share amount and any additional withholding not paid by the withholding or surrender of shares must be paid in cash. 12
Section 8. Performance Awards. Performance Awards may be issued hereunder to Participants, for such consideration as the Committee may determine, not less than the minimum consideration required by applicable law, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. The performance criteria to be achieved during any Performance Period and the length of the Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee upon the grant of each Performance Award. Except as provided in Section 12, Performance Awards will be paid only after the end of the relevant Performance Period. Performance Awards may be paid in cash, Shares, other property or any combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Committee at the time of payment. The performance levels to be achieved for each Performance Period and the amount of the Award to be distributed shall be conclusively determined by the Committee. Performance Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the Performance Period or, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, on a deferred basis. Section 9. Other Stock Unit Awards. (a) Stock and Administration. Other Awards of Shares and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, Shares or other property ("Other Stock Unit Awards") may be granted hereunder to Participants, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. Other Stock Unit Awards may be paid in Shares, cash or any other form of property as the Committee shall determine. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall, subject to Section 3, have sole and complete authority to determine the Employees or Outside Directors to whom and the time or times at which such Awards shall be made, the number of Shares to be granted pursuant to such Awards, and all other conditions of the Awards. The provisions of Other Stock Unit Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient. (b) Terms and Conditions. Subject to the provisions of this Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, Shares subject to Awards made under this Section 9 may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered prior to the date on which the Shares are issued, or, if later, the date on which any applicable restriction, performance or deferral period lapses. Shares granted under this Section 9 may be issued for such consideration as the Committee may determine, not less than the minimum consideration required by applicable law. Shares purchased pursuant to a purchase right awarded under this Section 9 shall be purchased for such consideration as the Committee shall in its sole discretion determine, which shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of such Shares as of the date such purchase right is awarded. (c) Standard Terms of Other Stock Unit Awards. Unless the Committee, or an Executive Officer or committee of Executive Officers under Section 14(j), specifies otherwise, the terms set forth in this Section 9(c) shall apply to all shares of Other Stock Unit Awards granted under this Plan. Any Award 13
Agreement relating to a grant of Other Stock Unit Awards that incorporates the terms of the Plan by reference shall be deemed to have incorporated the terms set forth in this Section 9(c) to the extent that these terms are not in conflict with those terms explicitly set forth in the Award Agreement. (i) The Grant Date of each Other Stock Unit Award shall be the date of the Committee's action granting the Award, or the date of the action by the Executive Officer or committee of Executive Officers under Section 14(j). (ii) The Company will deliver the shares of stock underlying the Other Stock Unit Award on a delivery date elected by the Participant, which may only be on or after the vesting date. Except as provided in Section 9(c)(iii), no Other Stock Unit Award shall vest before the first anniversary date of the granting of the Other Stock Unit Award. The Participant may extend the date on which the delivery of shares underlying the Other Stock Unit Award would otherwise occur (by any period or any multiple of that period determined by the Corporate Secretary) by an election made at least 13 months before the then current delivery date. Other Stock Unit Awards with an extended delivery date will not be cancelled if they vest before the Participant becomes associated with, employed by, renders services to, or owns any substantial interest in any business that is in competition with the Company or with any business in which the Company has a substantial interest. (iii)The vesting date for Other Stock Unit Awards shall accelerate immediately following the Participant's Termination Date if the reason for termination was the Participant's death or Total Disability. For grants of Other Stock Unit Awards to Employees, the vesting date shall accelerate immediately following (1) the date on which the Employee attains age 65, but only if the Other Stock Unit Award has been outstanding for at least one year, or (2) the first anniversary of the Grant Date if the Employee is age 65 or older on that anniversary date. For grants of Other Stock Unit Awards to Outside Directors, the vesting date shall accelerate immediately following the date the Outside Director fails to be elected or fails to be re-nominated to the Board, or the date of the Outside Director's Normal Retirement. If the Participant's delivery date is the same as the original vesting date, the delivery date will also accelerate to that date. (iv) Except with respect to Other Stock Unit Award Granted to Executive Officers, the Award shall vest immediately upon a Change in Control if (1) the Change in Control occurs at least one year after the Grant Date for the Award and (2) the Participant has been an Outside Director or Employee continuously from the Award's Grant Date to the date of the Change in Control. If the Participant's delivery date is the same as the original vesting date, the delivery date will also accelerate to that date. With respect to shares of Other Stock Unit Award Granted to Executive Officers, the Award shall vest immediately upon the Executive Officer's involuntary termination that is not a Termination for Cause, or upon the Executive Officer's Resignation with Good Reason, following a Change in Control if (1) the Change in Control 14
occurs at least one year after the Award's Grant Date and (2) the Participant has been an Employee continuously from the Award's Grant Date to the date of the Change in Control. If the Participant's delivery date is the same as the original vesting date, the delivery date will also accelerate to that date. If the acceleration of vesting under this Section 9(c)(iv), together with all other payments or benefits contingent on the Change in Control within the meaning of Code Section 280G, results in any portion of such payments or benefits not being deductible by the Company as a result of the application of Code Section 280G, the benefits shall be reduced until the entire amount of the benefits is deductible. The reduction shall be effected by the exclusion of grants of Other Stock Unit Awards or other Awards, or portions thereof, in the order elected by Participant until no portion of such benefits is rendered non-deductible by application of Code Section 280G. (v) If cash dividends are paid on the underlying class of stock attributable to an Other Stock Unit Award, Participants who hold Other Stock Unit Awards on the dividend record date will receive, on the dividend payment date, a cash payment equal to the amount of dividend paid. If non-cash dividends are paid on the underlying class of stock, and the Participant holds the Other Stock Unit Award on the dividend record date, the Participant's vesting date and the delivery date of the non-cash dividend will be the same as the Other Stock Unit Award to which the underlying stock is attributable. (vi) If the Participant elects a delivery date after the vesting date, on the vesting date the Participant must pay any FICA, Medicare, or any other required withholding then due. In that event, the Company will withhold from those shares under the Other Stock Unit Award, a number of whole shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of FICA, Medicare, or any other required withholding then due, unless the Participant elects to pay the withholding obligation in cash or by delivering to the Corporate Secretary seasoned Shares. On the delivery date, the Company will withhold from those shares otherwise deliverable under the Other Stock Unit Award, a number of whole shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of FICA, Medicare, or any other required withholding then due, unless the Participant elects to pay the withholding obligation in cash or by delivering to the Corporate Secretary Seasoned Shares. Any fractional share amount and any additional withholding not paid by the withholding or surrender of shares must be paid in cash. Section 10. [Deleted] Section 11. Outside Directors' Shares Outside Directors may elect, on an annual basis, to purchase shares of any class of common stock of the Company from the Company in lieu of receiving all or part (in 10% increments) of their annual retainer, meeting fees and committee meeting fees in cash. The purchase price of such shares shall be the Fair Market 15
Value of the stock for the last trading day of the quarter in which the retainer, meeting fees, and committee meeting fees are earned. Commencing May 1, 1997, the annual retainer and meeting fees, including Board, committee and other meetings that may be compensable under policies approved from time to time by the Board or a committee of the Board, payable to each Outside Director for service on the Board may, at the election of the Outside Director (the "Annual Election"), be payable to a trust in shares of any class of common stock of the Company. The Annual Election: (i) shall be irrevocable in respect of the annual retainer and meeting fees earned during the period to which it pertains (the "Plan Year") and shall specify the applicable percentage (in increments of 10%) of such annual retainer and meeting fees that such Outside Director wishes to direct to the trust; (ii) must be received in writing by the administrator of the Plan by the established enrollment deadline of any Plan Year which must be no later than the last business day of the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year in which that Plan Year commences, in order to cause that Plan Year's annual retainer and fees to be subject to the provisions of this Plan; and (iii) must specify whether the ultimate distribution of the shares of common stock to the Outside Director will be paid, following the Outside Director's death or termination of Board service, in a lump sum or in equal annual payments over a period of two to twenty years. The 2005 Plan Year will be the eight month period commencing May 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2005, and all subsequent Plan Years will be twelve month periods commencing January 1 of a year and ending on December 31 of the same year. The shares shall be purchased from the Company at the Fair Market Value of the stock for the last trading day of the quarter in which the fees are earned and shall be credited by the trustee to the account of the Outside Director. The certificates for common stock shall be issued in the name of the trustee of the trust and shall be held by such trustee in trust for the benefit of the Outside Directors; provided, however, that each Outside Director shall be entitled to vote the shares. The trustee shall retain all dividends (which shall be reinvested in shares of the same class of common stock) and other distributions paid or made with respect thereto in the trust. The shares credited to the account of an Outside Director shall remain subject to the claims of the Company's creditors, and the interests of the Outside Director in the trust may not be sold, hypothecated or transferred (including, without limitation, transferred by gift or donation) while such shares are held in the trust. If the Outside Director elects to receive a lump sum distribution, the trustee of the trust shall distribute such shares of common stock free of restrictions within 60 days after the Outside Director's Termination Date or a later date elected by the Outside Director (no later than the mandatory retirement age of the Outside Director). If the Outside Director elects to receive a lump sum distribution, the Outside Director may, by delivering notice in writing to the administrator of the Plan no later than December 31 of the year before the year in which the Outside Director terminates service as a Director, elect to receive any portion or all of the common stock in the form of cash determined by reference to the Fair Market Value of the common stock as of the termination 16
date. Any such notice to the administrator must specify whether the distribution will be entirely in cash or whether the distribution will be in a combination of common stock and cash (in which case the applicable percentage must be specified). In the case of termination of the Outside Director's service as a result of his death, payment of the Outside Director's account shall be in shares of common stock and not in cash. If an Outside Director elects to receive payments in installments, the distribution will commence within 60 days after the Outside Director's Termination Date and will be made in shares of common stock and not in cash. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any fractional shares of common stock shall be distributed in cash to the Outside Director. Section 12. Change in Control. (a) In order to maintain the Participants' rights in the event of any Change in Control of the Company, as hereinafter defined, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, as to any Award, either at the time an Award is made hereunder or any time thereafter, take any one or more of the following actions: (i) provide for the acceleration of any time periods relating to the exercise or realization of any such Award so that such Award may be exercised or realized in full on or before a date fixed by the Committee; (ii) provide for the purchase of any such Award, upon the Participant's request, for an amount of cash equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the property that could have been received upon the exercise of such Award or realization of the Participant's rights had such Award been currently exercisable or payable over the amount which would have been paid, if any, by the Participant for such property; (iii) make such adjustment to any such Award then outstanding as the Committee deems appropriate to reflect such Change in Control; or (iv) cause any such Award then outstanding to be assumed, or new rights substituted therefor, by the acquiring or surviving corporation after such Change in Control. The Committee may, in its discretion, include such further provisions and limitations in any agreement documenting such Awards as it deems equitable and in the best interests of the Company. (b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise with respect to any Award, a "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any "person" or "group" (as those terms are defined in Sections 3(a)(9), 13(d), and 14(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, including, without limitation, Rule 13d-5(b)) of "beneficial ownership" (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors ("voting securities") of the Company that represent 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities, other than (A) an acquisition by a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any person controlled by the Company or by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) 17
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any person controlled by the Company, or (B) an acquisition of voting securities by the Company or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the stock of the Company, or (C) an acquisition of voting securities pursuant to a transaction described in clause (iii) below that would not be a Change in Control under clause (iii); (ii) a change in the composition of the Board that causes less than a majority of the directors of the Company to be directors that meet one or more of the following descriptions: (A) a director who has been a director of the Company for a continuous period of at least 24 months, or (B) a director whose election or nomination as director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the then directors described in clauses (ii)(A), (B), or (C) by prior nomination or election, but excluding, for the purpose of this subclause (B), any director whose initial assumption of office occurred as a result of an actual or threatened (y) election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person or group other than the Board or (z) tender offer, merger, sale of substantially all of the Company's assets, consolidation, reorganization, or business combination that would be a Change in Control under clause (iii) on consummation thereof, or (C) who were serving on the Board as a result of the consummation of a transaction described in clause (iii) that would not be a Change in Control under clause (iii); (iii) the consummation by the Company (whether directly involving the Company or indirectly involving the Company through one or more intermediaries) of (x) a merger, consolidation, reorganization, or business combination or (y) a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or (z) the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity, in each case, other than in a transaction (A) that results in the Company's voting securities outstanding immediately before the transaction continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the Company or the person that, as a result of the transaction, controls, directly or indirectly, the Company or owns, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all of the Company's assets or otherwise succeeds to the business of the Company (the Company or such person, the "Successor Entity")) directly or indirectly, at least 50% of the combined 18
voting power of the Successor Entity's outstanding voting securities immediately after the transaction, and (B) after which more than 50% of the members of the board of directors of the Successor Entity were members of the Board at the time of the Board's approval of the agreement providing for the transaction or other action of the Board approving the transaction (or whose election or nomination was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members who were members of the Board at that time), and (C) after which no person or group beneficially owns voting securities representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Successor Entity; provided, however, no person or group shall be treated for purposes of this clause (C) as beneficially owning 30% or more of combined voting power of the Successor Entity solely as a result of the voting power held in the Company before the consummation of the transaction; or (iii) a liquidation or dissolution of the Company. For purposes of clarification, (x) a change in the voting power of the Company voting securities based on the relative trading values of the Company's then outstanding securities as determined pursuant to the Company's Articles of Incorporation or (y) an acquisition of the Company securities by the Company that, in either case, by itself (or in combination only with the other event listed in this sentence) causes the Company's voting securities beneficially owned by a person or group to represent 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities is not to be treated as an "acquisition" by any person or group for purposes of clause (i) above. For purposes of clause (i) above, the Company makes the calculation of voting power as if the date of the acquisition were a record date for a vote of the Company's shareholders, and for purposes of clause (iii) above, the Company makes the calculation of voting power as if the date of the consummation of the transaction were a record date for a vote of the Company's shareholders. (c) If an Award provides for acceleration under Section 12(a), the provisions of Section 6(g)(viii), Section 7(d)((iv), or Section 9(c)((iv), as the case may be, shall apply to the Award. Section 13. Amendments and Termination. The Board may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration, or discontinuation shall be made that would impair the rights of a Participant under an Award theretofore granted, without the Participant's consent, or that without the approval of the Stockholders would, except as is provided in Section 4(b) of the Plan, increase the total number of Shares reserved for the purposes of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may terminate the Plan even if the effect would be to cancel unexercisable Options granted pursuant to the last sentence of Section 4(a) for which shares have not, at the time of such termination, become available for grant. The Committee may amend the terms of any Award theretofore granted, prospectively or retroactively, but no such amendment shall impair the rights of 19
any Participant without the Participant's consent. The Committee may also substitute new Awards for Awards previously granted to Participants, including without limitation previously granted Options having higher option prices. Section 14. General Provisions. (a) No Award shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, except that Restricted Stock may be used in payment of the exercise price of a stock option issued by the Company and may be otherwise transferred in a manner that protects the interests of the Company as the Committee may determine; provided that, if so determined by the Committee, each Participant may, in the manner established by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Participant with respect to any Award upon the death of the Participant and to receive the Shares or other property issued upon such exercise. (b) The term of each Award shall be for such period from the date of its grant as may be determined by the Committee; provided that in no event shall the term of any Incentive Stock Option exceed a period of ten (10) years from the date of its grant. (c) No Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants under the Plan. (d) The prospective recipient of any Award under the Plan shall not, with respect to such Award, be deemed to have become a Participant, or to have any rights with respect to such Award, until and unless such recipient shall have executed an agreement or other instrument evidencing the Award and delivered a fully executed copy thereof to the Company, and otherwise complied with the then applicable terms and conditions. (e) The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in performance award criteria or in the terms and conditions of other Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles. The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to carry it into effect. In the event the Company shall assume outstanding employee benefit awards or the right or obligation to make future such awards in connection with the acquisition of another corporation or business entity, the Committee may, in its discretion, make such adjustments in the terms of Awards under the Plan as it shall deem appropriate. (f) The Committee shall have full power and authority to determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances any Award shall be canceled or suspended. In particular, but without limitation, except for Other Stock Unit Awards granted with the standard term described in Section 9(c)(ii), all outstanding Awards to any Participant shall be canceled if the Participant, without the consent of the Committee, while employed by the Company or an 20
Affiliate or after termination of such employment, becomes associated with, employed by, renders services to, or owns any interest in (other than any nonsubstantial interest, as determined by the Committee), any business that is in competition with the Company or with any business in which the Company has a substantial interest as determined by the Committee or any one or more Executive Officers or committee of Executive Officers to whom the authority to make such determination is delegated by the Committee under Section 14(j). (g) All certificates for Shares delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award shall be subject to such stock-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Shares are then listed, and any applicable Federal or state securities law, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. (h) Subject to the provisions of this Plan and any Award Agreement, the recipient of an Award may, if so determined by the Committee, be entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis, interest or dividends, or interest or dividend equivalents, with respect to the number of shares covered by the Award, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and the Committee may provide that such amounts (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested. (i) Except as otherwise required in any applicable Award Agreement or by the terms of the Plan, recipients of Awards under the Plan shall not be required to make any payment or provide consideration other than the rendering of services. (j) The Committee may delegate to one or more Executive Officers or a committee of Executive Officers the right to grant Awards to Employees who are not Executive Officers or Directors of the Company and to cancel or suspend Awards to Employees who are not Executive Officers or Directors of the Company. (k) The Company shall be authorized to withhold from any Award granted or payment due under the Plan the amount of withholding taxes due with respect to an Award or payment hereunder and to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes. The Company shall also be authorized to accept the delivery of Shares by a Participant in payment for the withholding of taxes. (l) Nothing contained in this Plan shall prevent the Board of Directors from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to stockholder approval if such approval is required; and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases. (m) The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Kansas and applicable Federal law. 21
(n) If any provision of this Plan is or becomes or is deemed invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan, it shall be stricken and the remainder of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect. Section 15. Effective Date of Plan. The Plan shall be effective as of April 15, 1997. Section 16. Term of Plan. No Award shall be granted pursuant to the Plan after April 15, 2007, but any Award granted on or before such date may extend beyond that date. 22


