FILE:S/S-8K-20050214170930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) February 8, 2005 SPRINT CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) Kansas 1-04721 48-0457967 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 6200 Sprint Parkway, Overland Park, Kansas 66251 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (913) 624-3000 (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) P. O. Box 7997, Shawnee Mission, Kansas 66207-0997 (Mailing address of principal executive offices) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement Directors' Deferred Fee Plan On February 8, 2005, the Board of Directors of Sprint Corporation ("Sprint") adopted an amendment to the Directors' Deferred Fee Plan (the "Plan") to be in line with competitive practices. The Plan allows outside directors of Sprint to defer a portion of their annual retainer, meeting fees and committee meeting fees. The Plan also provides that new members of the Board of Directors receive a one time grant of share units, an award having a value based on the market value of a share of Sprint common stock. The purpose of the award is to assist in the attraction and retention of qualified board members. The award is currently valued at approximately three times the $50,000 annual board member retainer. Before the amendment, the Plan provided that 50% of these share units vest on the fifth anniversary of the director's election to the Board of Directors and 10% on each of the sixth through tenth anniversaries. The Plan was amended to provide that 100% of the share units vest on the third anniversary of the director's election to the Board of Directors, except in the following situations: 1. If the director leaves the Board of Directors at his or her convenience, the share units would vest on a pro-rata basis in a proportional amount equivalent to the number of full years of service completed by the director after the grant date of the share units. 2. If a director leaves the Board of Directors because of a change of control of Sprint, as defined in the 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program, a change in Board policy or otherwise at the convenience of the Board of Directors, the share units would vest upon the director's departure from the Board. On February 8, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the award of share units, with a grant date of February 18, 2005, to the new director elected to the Board of Directors. See item 5.02 for information regarding the new director. Management Incentive Plan On February 8, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved incentive payments to executive officers of Sprint and other eligible employees under the Management Incentive Plan based on 2004 results. It also established the 2005 performance objectives, allocations and targets on which incentive payments will be based in 2006. The Management Incentive Plan provides for the payment to executive officers and other eligible employees of incentive compensation based on the achievement of near term objectives of Sprint. 1
Payouts based on 2004 results for the five executive officers with the highest 2004 compensation were as follows: Gary D. Forsee, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer $2,090,991 Len J. Lauer, President and Chief Operating Officer $ 913,758 Robert J. Dellinger, Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer $ 549,376 Michael B. Fuller, President - Local Telecommunications Division $ 549,376 Howard E. Janzen, President - Sprint Business Solutions $ 549,376 The awards based on 2005 results will be determined using three variables: (1) the executive officer's annual incentive target, (2) achievement of two objectives, described below, and (3) weightings for the objectives. The executive officer's incentive target will be multiplied by the weightings and the payout results for each objective to calculate the actual incentive amount. Payouts can range from 0 to 200% of the respective target awards for each objective. In addition, the incentive payout for those executive officers who are senior vice presidents will be adjusted based on individual performance (from 0 to 120%). The 2005 objectives for executive officers include consolidated EVA (80%) and enterprise composite customer satisfaction (20%). If the proposed merger with Nextel Communications, Inc., is completed before year-end 2005, full year EVA performance will be calculated by dividing actual year-to-date performance through the most recent full month before the close of the merger by budgeted year-to-date performance for the same period and multiplying the quotient by the 2005 full year budget. The most recently completed quarterly customer satisfaction survey results available before the close of the merger will be used to proportionately assess cumulative quarterly performance and payment results. Executive Officer Compensation On February 8, 2005, the Compensation Committee also approved 2005 base salaries for executive officers. Because of additional duties and responsibilities that now include the Information Technology Services and Network Services organizations, Len J. Lauer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, was promoted to a grade level in which his 2005 base salary is $933,000 and his 2005 incentive target is $1,120,000. His title remains the same. Equity Awards On February 8, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors also granted new equity awards under the shareholder approved 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program (the "1997 Program"). Restricted stock units were granted to outside directors of Sprint. These restricted stock units vest February 8, 2008. The Compensation Committee also approved an award of restricted stock units to the new director with a grant date of February 18, 2005. The 2
terms of the restricted stock units are governed by the 1997 Program and the form of the award agreement attached as Exhibit 10.2, which is incorporated herein by reference. A combination of restricted stock units and stock options were granted to officers, including executive officers. The exercise price for stock options granted to executive officers and certain other officers was equal to 110% of the market value on the grant date (the average of the high and low sales prices). The grant of options with an exercise price above market value ensures that stockholders benefit from stock appreciation before senior management of Sprint. The options vest 25% per year on each of the first through fourth anniversaries of the grant date; however, if the executive officer is a participant in the Retention Program adopted in connection with the proposed merger with Nextel, the vesting accelerates in the same situations as equity based awards covered by the Retention Program accelerate, if the executive officer is involuntarily terminated not for cause before the one-year anniversary of the proposed merger or, in the case of one executive officer, before the one-year anniversary of the contemplated spin-off of the local division operations. The terms of the stock options are governed by the 1997 Program and the form of award agreements attached as Exhibits 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, which are incorporated herein by reference. The number of restricted stock units subject to the awards granted to executive officers are performance based and, subject to the discretion of the Compensation Committee, will be adjusted by multiplying the number of restricted stock units subject to the awards by a payout percentage (from 0 to 200%) based on actual achievement of 2005 EVA performance measures. The restricted stock units vest three years from the grant date, and have the same acceleration terms that options granted to executive officers have as described above. The terms of the restricted stock units are also governed by the 1997 Program and the forms of award agreement attached as Exhibits 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5. Corporate Aircraft Usage On February 8, 2005, amendments to Sprint's aircraft usage policy were made, with guidance and oversight by the Compensation Committee. The amendments provide for limited use by certain executive officers (those who hold the position of executive vice president or above) of corporate aircraft for personal reasons subject to pre-approval by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The limited use of the aircraft cannot exceed $75,000 in value each year for any of these executive officers, with a cap of $150,000 for all of these executive officers. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is required by the company security policy to use company aircraft in lieu of commercial aircraft for all travel, including personal travel. Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers On February 8, 2005, the Board of Directors of Sprint elected a new independent director, James H. Hance, Jr. Mr. Hance recently retired as vice chairman of Bank of America Corporation, a 3
global financial service provider. The Sprint Board has not yet appointed Mr. Hance to serve on any Board committee. A copy of Sprint's press release announcing Mr. Hance's election to the Board of Directors as an independent director is attached as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. 4
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits Exhibits 10.1 Directors' Deferred Fee Plan, as amended. 10.2 Form of 2004 Award Agreement (awarding restricted stock units) with Directors 10.3 Form of 2005 Award Agreement (awarding stock options and restricted stock units) with Messrs. Forsee and Lauer 10.4 Form of 2005 Award Agreement (awarding stock options and restricted stock units) with Mr. Fuller 10.5 Form of 2005 Award Agreement (awarding stock options and restricted stock units) with other executive officers 10.6 Summary of Executive Officer Benefits and Board of Directors Benefits and Fees 99 Press Release announcing election of James H. Hance, Jr. as an independent director of Sprint Corporation. 5
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. SPRINT CORPORATION Date: February 14, 2005 By: /s/ Michael T. Hyde Michael T. Hyde, Assistant Secretary 6
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page 10.1 Directors' Deferred Fee Plan, as amended. 10.2 Form of 2004 Award Agreement (awarding restricted stock units) with Directors 10.3 Form of 2005 Award Agreement (awarding stock options and restricted stock units) with Messrs. Forsee and Lauer 10.4 Form of 2005 Award Agreement (awarding stock options and restricted stock units) with Mr. Fuller 10.5 Form of 2005 Award Agreement (awarding stock options and restricted stock units) with other executive officers 10.6 Summary of Executive Officer Benefits and Board of Directors Benefits and Fees 99 Press Release announcing election of James H. Hance, Jr. as an independent director of Sprint Corporation.

Exhibit 10.1 Directors' Deferred Fee Plan ARTICLE I PURPOSE The purpose of the Sprint Corporation Directors' Deferred Fee Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan") is to provide funds upon termination of service or death for Directors (and their Beneficiaries) of Sprint Corporation. It is intended that the Plan will aid in retaining and attracting Directors of exceptional ability by providing such Directors with a means to supplement their standard of living. ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS For the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 2.1 Account Transfer Request. "Account Transfer Request" means a written notice, in a form prescribed by the Company, by a Participant to transfer all or any portion of one Deferred Benefit Account to another Deferred Benefit Account as provided for in paragraph 6.7. 2.2 Amendment of Payment Election Form. "Amendment of Payment Election Form" means a written notice, in a form prescribed by the Company, filed with the Company by a Participant to change the manner in which such Participant's Deferral Benefits are to be paid. 2.3 Beneficiary. "Beneficiary" means the person, persons, or entity designated by the Participant, as provided in Article VIII, to receive any benefits payable under the Plan. Any Participant Beneficiary Designation shall be made in a written instrument filed with the Company and shall become effective only when received, accepted, and acknowledged in writing by the Company. 2.4 Board "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company. 2.5 Committee. "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board. 2.6 Company. "Company" means Sprint Corporation, or any successor thereto.
2.7 Deferral Benefit. "Deferral Benefit" means the benefit payable to a Participant on the Participant's death or termination of service as a Director, as calculated in Article VII hereof. 2.8 Deferred Benefit Account. "Deferred Benefit Account" means the accounts maintained on the books of account of the Company for each Participant pursuant to Article VI. Separate Deferred Benefit Accounts shall be maintained for each Participant. More than one Deferred Benefit Account shall be maintained for each Participant to reflect (a) separate deferral elections made pursuant to separately executed Participation Agreements, (b) Account A, Account B, Account D, Account AA, Account BB, and Account DD elections made by each Participant in each such Participation Agreement, and (c) One Time Grants. A Participant's Deferred Benefit Account shall be used solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary pursuant to this Plan. A Participant's Deferred Benefit Account shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind. 2.9 Determination Date. "Determination Date" means the date on which the amount of a Participant's Deferred Benefit Account is determined as provided in Article VI hereof. The last day of each calendar month shall be a Determination Date. 2.10 Director. "Director" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company who is not an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries. 2.11 Fee. "Fee" means any cash compensation paid to a Director for his services as a Director other than a distribution under this Plan. 2.12 FON Share Unit. "FON Share Unit" means a measure of participation under the Plan having a value based on the market value of one share of FON Common Stock, Series 1, of the Company. 2.13 Interest Yield. "Interest Yield" means, with respect to any calendar month, (a) in the case of balances in Account AA, three percentage points over the composite yield on Moody's Seasoned Corporate Bond Yield Index for the preceding calendar month as determined from Moody's Bond Record published by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. (or any successor thereto), or, if such monthly yield is no longer published, a substantially similar average selected by the Company, and (b) in the case of balances in Account A, the greater of (i) the prime rate in effect at Citibank, N.A., at the opening of business on the first business day of the month, or if said bank, for any reason, no longer publishes its prime rate, 2
the prime rate similarly determined of another major bank selected by the Company and (ii) six percent per annum. 2.14 New Director. "New Director" means a Director who had not accumulated at least five years of service as a Director as of December 10, 1996 and any Director who is first elected after such date. Each New Director is entitled to a One Time Grant. 2.15 One Time Grant, "One Time Grant" means a one time grant to New Directors of FON Share Units credited into Account B and PCS Share Units credited into Account D. The number of FON Share Units and the number of PCS Share Units to be granted to each New Director are determined by the Committee. 2.16 Participant. "Participant" means any New Director and any Director who elects to participate by filing a Participation Agreement as provided in Article IV. 2.17 Participation Agreement. "Participation Agreement" means the agreement, in a form prescribed by the Company, filed by a Participant before the beginning of the period in which the Participant's Fees are to be deferred pursuant to the Plan. A new Participation Agreement shall be filed by the Participant for each separate Fee deferral election. 2.18 PCS Share Unit. "PCS Share Unit" means a measure of participation under the Plan having a value based on the market value of a share of PCS Common Stock, Series 1, of the Company. 2.19 Plan. "Plan" means the Sprint Corporation Directors' Deferred Fee Plan as set forth in this document. This Plan is the successor to, and comprises an amendment and revision of, the United Telecommunications, Inc., 1985 Directors' Deferred Fee Plan adopted February 12, 1985. 2.20 Plan Administrator. "Plan Administrator" means the person appointed by the Company to represent the Company in the administration of this Plan. 2.21 Plan Year. Until the 2005 Plan Year, "Plan Year" means a twelve-month period commencing May 1st and ending the following April 30th. The first Plan Year commenced May 1, 1985. The 2005 Plan Year will be the eight month period commencing May 1, 2005 and ending December 31, 2005, and all subsequent Plan Years will be twelve month periods commencing January 1 of a year and ending on December 31 of the same year. 3
2.22 Recapitalization Date. "Recapitalization Date" means November 23, 1998. 2.23 Share Units. "Share Units" means the Share Units credited to Accounts B and BB prior to the recapitalization of the Company's Common Stock on the Recapitalization Date. 2.24 Spouse. "Spouse" means a Participant's wife or husband who was lawfully married to the Participant upon the Participant's death or severance from service. 2.25 Transition Date. "Transition Date" means May 1, 1990. ARTICLE III ADMINISTRATION 3.1 Plan Administrator; Company and Committee; Duties. This Plan shall be administered by the Plan Administrator. Decisions of the Plan Administrator may be reviewed by the Company through the Committee. Members of the Committee may be Participants under this Plan. The Company shall also have the authority to make, amend interpret, and enforce all appropriate rules and regulations for the administration of this Plan and decide or resolve any and all questions including interpretations of this Plan as may arise in connection with the Plan. 3.2 Binding Effect of Decisions. The decision or action of the Company in respect to any question aris ing out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation, and application of the Plan and the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder shall be final and conclusive and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan unless a written appeal is received by the Company within sixty days of the disputed action. The appeal will be reviewed by the Committee, and its decision shall be final, conclusive, and binding on the Participant and on all persons claiming by, through, or under the Participant. ARTICLE IV PARTICIPATION 4.1 Participation. Participation in the Plan shall be limited to New Directors and Directors, under age 70, who elect to participate in the Plan by filing a Participation Agreement with the Company. A New Director shall become eligible to participate in the Plan on the first day of the calendar month immediately following the date on which the New Director 4
has served 15 days on the Board. Except as provided below, a Participation Agreement must be filed by the enrollment deadline established by the Plan Administrator for a Plan Year, which deadline must be no later than the last business day of the calendar year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the Participant's participation under the agreement will commence. The election to participate shall apply to Fees earned on or after the first day of the Plan Year following receipt by the Company of a properly completed and executed Participation Agreement. With respect to an individual becoming a Director during a Plan Year who thereby becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, an initial Participation Agreement may be filed within 30 days of the date on which the Director becomes eligible, and such election to participate shall be effective on the first day of the month following the Company's receipt thereof, except that elections not received by the Company before the 15th day of any calendar month shall be effective no earlier than the first day of the second month following the month of receipt. 4.2 Amount of Deferral and Length of Participation. A Participant may elect in any Participation Agreement to defer up to 100% of the Fees that are expected at the time of election to be earned in the Plan Year to which the Participation Agreement relates and all subsequent Plan Years until changed by the Participant's filing of a new Participant Agreement, provided, the minimum amount of Fees that may be deferred shall, in each case, be $5,000 per year or 100% of Fees payable, whichever is less. (a) The deferral percentage in each Participation Agreement shall be applied to the Participant's Fees earned during the period of election. (b) A Participant's election to defer Fees shall be irrevocable upon the filing of the respective Participation Agreement; provided, however, that the deferral of Fees under any Participation Agreement may be suspended or amended as provided in paragraphs 7.3 or 9.1. If a Participant desires to change the percentage of Fees deferred or desires to cease deferring Fees, the Participant must file a new Participation Agreement. Such new Participation Agreement must be filed no later than the last business day of the calendar year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which the new Participation Agreement is to take effect. The new Participation Agreement shall be effective as to Fees earned in Plan Years beginning after the last day of the Plan Year in 5
which the agreement is filed with the Company. Any previously filed Participation Agreement will no longer apply to the deferral of fees. Only one Participation Agreement will be in effect for new deferrals in each Plan Year. In the event a Participant elects to defer Fees pursuant to a new Participation Agreement, the new election shall be treated as an arrangement for which a separate Deferred Benefit Account shall be maintained and separate Deferral Benefits shall be payable. ARTICLE V DEFERRED FEES 5.1 Elective Deferred Fees. The amount of Fees that a Participant elects to defer in the Participation Agreement executed by the Participant, with respect to each Plan Year of participation in the Plan, shall be credited by the Company to the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account throughout each Plan Year as the Participant is paid. The amount credited to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Account shall equal the amount deferred, except to the extent that the Company is required to withhold any taxes or other amounts related to the Participant's deferred fees pursuant to any federal, state or local law. In the event withholding is required, the amount required to be withheld shall first be taken from the Participant's fees that have not been deferred. If these fees are not sufficient to meet the withholding obligation, the remainder will be taken from the amount deferred. 5.2 Vesting of Deferred Benefit Account. (a) Vesting provisions before February 8, 2005. Participants shall be 100% vested in their Deferred Benefit Accounts, except for the Account B resulting from a One Time Grant. The Share Units granted as part of a One Time Grant will vest at the rate of 50% on the fifth anniversary of the Participant's election as a Director and 10% per year on the sixth through tenth anniversaries of such election. The Share Units resulting from dividend credits on such Share Units will vest at the same time as such Share Units vest. Any Share Units that have not vested at the time of the Participant's termination of service as a Director shall be forfeited. (b) Vesting provisions on and after February 8, 2005. Participants shall be 100% vested in their Deferred Benefit Accounts, except for the Account B resulting from a One Time Grant. The Share Units granted as part of a One Time Grant (including One Time Grants made before February 8, 2005) shall be 100% vested on the third anniversary of the Participant's election as a Director, except as follows: 6
(1) if a Participant departs from the Board at his or her convenience before the third anniversary, the One Time Grant would vest on a pro rata basis in a proportional amount equivalent to the number of full years of service completed since the grant date; (2) If a Participant departs from the board because of a change in control (as defined in the 1997 Long-term Stock Incentive Program), a change in policy or otherwise at the convenience of the Board, vesting of the One Time Grant would accelerate upon his or her departure. The Share Units resulting from dividend credits on such Share Units will vest at the same time as such Share Units vest. Any Share Units that have not vested at the time of the Participant's termination of service as a Director shall be forfeited. The vesting provided for in this Section 5.2(b) shall not apply to any amount that was earned and vested as of December 31, 2004 pursuant to Section 5.2(a). If any vesting under this Section 5.2(b) is treated as a parachute payment within the meaning of section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code ("280G"), and together with all other payments or benefits contingent on the change in control within the meaning of 280G, results in any portion of such payments or benefits not being deductible by the Company as a result of the application of 280G, the benefits shall be reduced until the entire amount of the benefits is deductible. The reduction shall be effected by reduction of the benefits under the One Time Grant, the exclusion of acceleration of vesting of equity grants under the 1997 Long-term Stock Incentive Program, or portions thereof, in the order elected by Participant until no portion of such benefits is rendered non-deductible by application of 280G. ARTICLE VI DEFERRED BENEFIT ACCOUNT 6.1 Determination of Account. Each Participant's Deferred Benefit Account, as of each Determination Date, shall consist of the balance of the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account as of the immediately preceding Determination Date plus the Participant's elective deferred Fees withheld since the immediately preceding Determination Date pursuant to paragraph 5.1 and plus amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account pursuant to paragraphs 6.4 and 6.5. The 7
Deferred Benefit Account of each Participant shall be reduced by the amount of all distributions, if any, made from such Deferred Benefit Account since the preceding Determination Date. 6.2 Type of Deferral. A Participant may elect to have any portion of the amount deferred credited to Account A (fixed income return), or to Account B (FON Share Units). The initial election shall be made by a properly executed Participation Agreement. An election to change the apportionment of deferred amounts between Accounts A and B may be made by a Participant filing with the Plan Administrator a revised Participation Agreement indicating such change on or before the last business day of a calendar year. The revised Participation Agreement shall be deemed a continuation of the initial Participation Agreement to which it relates. The revised Participation Agreement shall be effective for Fees earned in Plan Years beginning after the date it is filed. Deferrals in such Plan Years shall be credited in accordance with the election of the revised Participation Agreement. 6.3 Creation of Accounts AA, BB, D, and DD. (a) Accounts AA and BB. As of the start of business on the Transition Date, all amounts standing to the credit of each Participant in Account A were transferred to an Account AA. As of the start of business on the Transition Date, amounts standing to the credit of each Participant in Account B that were attributable to prior transfers from Account A into Account B were transferred to an Account BB. The amount of such transfers was an amount equal to the sum of the dollar amount of all transfers from Account A to Account B during the period beginning on the effective date of the Participation Agreement and ending on the Transition Date. For all purposes of this Plan, except as otherwise noted in this Plan, Account AA shall be treated in the same manner as Account A, and Account BB shall be treated in the same manner as Account B. (b) Accounts D and DD. As of the Recapitalization Date, there was credited to an Account D and DD, created for each Participant having a positive balance in an Account B or BB with respect to any Plan Year, a number of PCS Share Units determined as follows: (1) one-half of a PCS Share Unit in Account D for each Share Unit in Account B for such Participant for such Plan Year as of the Recapitalization Date; and 8
(2) one-half of a PCS Share Unit in Account DD for each Share Unit in Account BB for such Participant for such Plan Year as of the Recapitalization Date. 6.4 Maintenance of Accounts A and AA. As of each Determination Date, the Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts A and AA shall be increased by the amount of interest earned since the preceding Determination Date based on the Interest Yield. Interest shall be credited on the average of the balances of the Deferred Benefit Account on the Determination Date (before crediting the interest) and on the last preceding Determination Date, but after the Deferred Benefit Account has been adjusted for any contributions or distributions to be credited or deducted for each such day. 6.5 Maintenance of Share Unit Accounts. Accounts B and BB and Accounts D and DD shall maintain balances in FON Share Units and PCS Share Units, respectively. (a) Maintenance of Accounts B and BB. (1) Conversion of Share Units into FON Share Units. As of the Recapitalization Date, each Share Unit in Accounts B and BB was converted into a FON Share Unit. (2) Conversion between Dollar Amounts and FON Share Units in Accounts B and BB. When an amount is to be added to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts B or BB, it shall be converted into FON Share Units, or fractions thereof, by dividing the amount to be credited by the closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. When a number of FON Share Units is to be subtracted from a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts B or BB, such number of FON Share Units shall be converted into a dollar amount by multiplying such number of FON Share Units by the closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. (3) Dividends on FON Share Units. When a dividend is declared and paid by the Company on its FON Common Stock, Series 1, an amount shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts B and BB as though the same 9
dividend had been paid on the FON Share Units in such accounts as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the record date for the dividend, and such amount shall be converted to FON Share Units. Such amount shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following the payment of the dividend. (4) Effect of Recapitalization. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, or other corporate reorganization involving the FON Common Stock, Series 1, the Company shall make equitable adjustment to a Participant's Accounts B and BB as may be necessary to give effect to such change in the Company's capital structure. (5) Conversion of FON Share Units to Dollars on Distribution. FON Share Units in Accounts B and BB shall be converted to an equivalent dollar amount before any distribution thereof to a Participant pursuant to Article VII. For purposes of distribution, the value of a FON Share Unit shall be the average closing price of the FON Common Stock, Series 1, on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day of each of (i) the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the date of distribution or (ii) the smaller number of calendar months (including part of a month) elapsed from the Recapitalization Date to such distribution. If a Participant elects payment in other than a lump sum, Share Units shall be so converted to a dollar amount with respect to each payment made in the distribution. During the period of distribution, dividends and other equitable adjustments shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts B and BB in accordance with paragraphs 6.5(a)(3) and 6.5(a)(4). (b) Maintenance of Accounts D and DD. (1) Conversion between Dollar Amounts and PCS Share Units in Accounts D and DD. When an amount is to be added to a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts D or DD, it shall be converted into PCS Share Units, or fractions thereof, by dividing the amount to be credited by the closing price of the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. When a number of PCS 10
Share Units is to be subtracted from a Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts D or DD, such number of PCS Share Units shall be converted into a dollar amount by multiplying such number of PCS Share Units by the closing price of the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day on or before the Determination Date. (2) Dividends on PCS Share Units. When a dividend is declared and paid by the Company on its PCS Common Stock, Series 1, an amount shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts D and DD as though the same dividend had been paid on the PCS Share Units in such accounts as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the record date for the dividend, and such amount shall be converted to PCS Share Units. Such amount shall be valued as of the Determination Date immediately following the payment of the dividend. (3) Effect of Recapitalization. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, or other corporate reorganization involving the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, the Company shall make equitable adjustment to a Participant's Accounts D and DD as may be necessary to give effect to such change in the Company's capital structure. In the event a corporate reorganization results in the conversion of PCS Share Units into FON Share Units, all FON Share Units held in Accounts D and DD following the reorganization shall be transferred to the Accounts B and BB, respectively. The Accounts D and DD shall then be eliminated. (4) Conversion of PCS Share Units to Dollars on Distribution. PCS Share Units in Accounts D and DD shall be converted to an equivalent dollar amount before any distribution thereof to a Participant pursuant to Article VII. For purposes of distribution, the value of a PCS Share Unit shall be the average closing price of the PCS Common Stock, Series 1, on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day of each of (i) the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the date of distribution or (ii) the smaller number of calendar months (including part of a month) elapsed from the Recapitalization Date to such distribution. If a Participant elects payment in other than a 11
lump sum, PCS Share Units shall be so converted to a dollar amount with respect to each payment made in the distribution. During the period of distribution, dividends and other equitable adjustments shall be credited to the Participant's Accounts D, and DD in accordance with paragraphs 6.5(b)(2) and 6.5(b)(3). 6.6 Statement of Accounts. The Company shall submit to each Participant, within 120 days after the close of each Plan Year, a statement in such form as the Company deems desirable, setting forth the balance to the credit of such Participant in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Accounts A and AA, B and BB, and D and DD, in each case as of the last day of the preceding Plan Year. 6.7 Transfer Between Accounts. Within the limitations of this paragraph 6.7, a Participant may elect, by executing an Account Transfer Request: (1) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account A to Account B or Account D, (2) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account B to Account A or Account D, (3) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account D to Account A or Account B, (4) to transfer all or any portion of the Participant's Account AA to Account BB or Account DD, (5) to transfer all or any portion of his Account BB to Account AA or Account DD, and (6) to transfer all or any portion of his Account DD to Account AA or Account BB. Such election shall be effective on the last day of the calendar month in which the Plan Administrator receives the Participant's executed Account Transfer Request. Transfers may not be made more than four times in any Plan Year, and no such transfer may be made unless a period of at least three months shall have elapsed from the effective date of the most recent such transfer (whether it occurred in the current Plan Year or not) to the effective date of the current transfer. No part of the Account B or the Account D resulting from a One Time Grant may be transferred to any other account. ARTICLE VII BENEFITS 7.1 Termination of Service as Director. Subject to paragraph 7.4 below, upon any termination of service of the Participant for reasons other than the Participant's death, the Company shall pay to the Participant a Deferral Benefit equal to the amount of the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account determined under paragraph 6.1 thereof, but excluding any unvested FON Share Units or PCS Share Units. 12
7.2 Death. If a Participant dies after the commencement of payments of the Participant's Deferral Benefit, the Participant's Beneficiary shall continue to receive the remaining balance of the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account in accordance with the Participant's election pursuant to paragraph 7.4. If a Participant dies before any payments of a Deferral Benefit, the amounts to which the Participant's Beneficiary is entitled shall be determined as follows: (a) Accounts A, B, BB, D, and DD shall be the Deferred Benefit Account values thereof excluding any unvested FON Share Units or PCS Share Units, and (b) Account AA shall be the greater of (i) the Deferred Benefit Account value thereof and (ii) ten times the amount of the elected annual fee deferral allocated to Account AA pursuant to the Participation Agreement as revised on the date of the Participant's death, subject to such conditions relating to the Participant's health as the Company may impose. The Deferral Benefit shall be payable as provided for in paragraph 7.4. If a Participant's Beneficiary dies before payments of the Participant's Deferral Benefit are complete, payments will continue to be made to the estate of the beneficiary in accordance with the Participant's election pursuant to paragraph 7.4. The Deferral Benefit provided above shall be in lieu of all other benefits under this Plan. 7.3 Suspension of Participation; Failure to Continue Participation. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may suspend the deferral of a Participant's Fees upon the advanced written request of a Participant on account of financial hardship suffered by that Participant. A Participant must file any request for suspension on or before the 15th day preceding the regular payment date on which the suspension is to take effect. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the amount, if any, that will not be deferred by the Participant as a result of the financial hardship. The suspension of any deferrals under this paragraph shall not affect amounts deferred with respect to periods before the effective date of the suspension. A Participant whose deferrals are suspended may not execute a subsequent Participation Agreement that would take effect before the beginning of the third Plan Year following the close of the Plan Year in which the suspension first took effect. 13
7.4 Form of Benefit Payment (a) Upon the happening of an event described in paragraphs 7.1 or 7.2 above, the Company shall pay to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary the amount specified therein (at a time designated in the Participation Agreement, but commencing no later than the Company's mandatory termination date for Directors) in one of the following forms as elected by the Participant, either in the Participation Agreement or the Amendment of Payment Election Form filed by the Participant: (1) a lump sum payment. (2) with respect to balances in Accounts A and AA, an annual payment of a fixed amount that shall amortize the Deferred Benefit Account balance in equal annual payments of principal and interest over a period from 2 to 20 years. For purposes of determining the amount of the annual payment, the assumed rate of interest on Accounts A and AA shall be the average of the applicable Interest Yield as of each Determination Date for the 60 months preceding the initial annual installment payment. (3) with respect to balances in Accounts B and BB, an annual payment over a period from 2 to 20 years. Each payment shall be the value, as determined pursuant to paragraph 6.5(a)(5), of the number of FON Share Units equal to (i) the number of FON Share Units in the accounts on the Determination Date immediately following the event described in paragraphs 7.1 or 7.2, divided by (ii) the number of annual installments elected. During the period that a Participant is receiving a distribution from Account B or BB, FON Share Unit dividends will be added to the Accounts in accordance with subparagraph 6.5(a)(3). Such FON Share Unit dividends shall be valued in the same manner as previously described, and the value of all such FON Share Units accruing after a distribution from Accounts B or BB is made shall be paid to the Participant with the next distribution from the account. (4) With respect to balances in Accounts D and DD, an annual payment over a period from 2 to 20 years. Each payment shall be the value, as determined pursuant to paragraph 6.5(b)(4), of the number of PCS Share Units equal to (i) the 14
number of PCS Share Units in the accounts on the Determination Date immediately following the event described in paragraphs 7.1 or 7.2, divided by (ii) the number of annual installments elected. During the period that a Participant is receiving a distribution from Account D or DD, PCS Share Unit dividends will be added to the Accounts in accordance with subparagraph 6.5(b)(2) hereof. Such PCS Share Unit dividends shall be valued in the same manner as previously described, and the value of all such PCS Share Units accruing after a distribution from Accounts D or DD is made shall be paid to the Participant with the next distribution from the account. (b) A Participant may change the form in which the Participant's benefits shall be paid by filing an Amendment of Payment Election Form indicating such change at least 13 months before the date upon which the initial payment to be made is determined. No such Amendment of Payment Election Form shall change the amount elected to be deferred in the Participation Agreement to which it relates, nor the time elected for commencement of benefit payments. (c) In the absence of a Participant's election under subparagraph 7.4(a), benefits shall be paid in the form specified in subparagraphs 7.4(a)(2), 7.4(a)(3), and 7.4(a)(4) over a 15 year period. 7.5 Withholding; Payroll Taxes. To the extent required by the law in effect at the time payments are made, the Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder any taxes required to be withheld from a Director's fees for the federal or any state or local government. 7.6 Commencement of Payments. Unless otherwise provided, payments under this Plan shall begin within 60 days following receipt of notice by the Company of an event that entitles a Participant (or a Beneficiary) to payments under this Plan, or at such earlier date as may be determined by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Plan. All payments shall be made as of the first day of the month. ARTICLE VIII BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION 8.1 Beneficiary Designation. Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate any person or persons as the Participant's 15
Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (both principal as well as contingent) to whom payment under this Plan shall be paid in the event of the Participant's death before complete distribution to the Participant of the benefits due the Participant under the Plan. 8.2 Amendments. Any Beneficiary Designation may be changed by a Participant by the written filing of such change on a form prescribed by the Company. The filing of a new Beneficiary Designation form will cancel all Beneficiary Designations previously filed. 8.3 No Beneficiary Designation. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided above, or if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, then the Participant's designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be the person or persons surviving the Participant in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor, share and share alike: (a) The surviving Spouse; (b) The Participant's children, except that if any of the children predecease the Participant but leave issue surviving, then such issue shall take by right of representation the share their parent would have taken if living; (c) The Participant's personal representative (executor or administrator). 8.4 Effect of Payment. The payment to the Participant's Beneficiary or the Beneficiaries' estate shall completely discharge the Company's obligations relating to the Participant under this Plan. ARTICLE IX AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN 9.1 Amendment. The Board may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease or restrict any Deferred Benefit Account at the time of such amendment. 9.2 Right to Terminate. The Board may at any time terminate the Plan with respect to new elections to defer if, in its judgment, the continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of the Company. The Board may also terminate the Plan in its entirety at any time, and upon any such termination, each Participant (a) who is then 16
receiving a Deferral Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum, or over such period of time as determined by the Company, the then remaining balance in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account, and (b) who has not received a Deferral Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum, or over such period of time as determined by the Company, the balance in the Participant's Deferred Benefit Account. ARTICLE X MISCELLANEOUS 10.1 Unsecured General Creditor. Participants and their Beneficiaries shall have no legal or equitable rights, claims, or interests in any property or assets of the Company or its subsidiaries, nor shall they be Beneficiaries of, or have any rights, claims, or interests in any life insurance policies, annuity contracts or the proceeds therefrom owned or that may be acquired by the Company ("Policies"). Such Policies or other assets of the Company and its subsidiaries shall not be held under any trust for the benefit of Participants or their Beneficiaries or held in any way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of the Company under this Plan. Any and all of such assets and Policies shall be and remain the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to pay money in the future. 10.2 Nonassignability. Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are, expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable. No part of the amounts payable shall, before actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony, or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency. 10.3 Not a Contract of Service. The terms and conditions of this Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of service between the Company and the Participant, and the Participant (or the Participant's Beneficiary) shall have no rights against the Company except as may otherwise be specifically provided herein. Moreover, nothing in this Plan 17
shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained as a Director. 10.4 Protective Provisions. A Participant will cooperate with the Company by furnishing any and all information requested by the Company, in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, by taking such physical examinations as the Company may deem necessary, and by taking such other action as may be requested by the Company. 10.5 Applicable Law. The Plan, and any Participation Agreement related thereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Kansas, without regard to the principles of conflicts of law. 18

Exhibit 10.2 Award Agreement This Award Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of ________________, 2005 (the "Grant Date"), by and between Sprint Corporation, a Kansas corporation (together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries, "Sprint") and __________________________ (the "Director"), a director of Sprint, for the grant of restricted stock units with respect to Sprint's FON Common Stock, par value $2.00 per share ("FON Stock"). In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the parties agree to the following. 1. Defined Terms Incorporated from 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in Sprint's 1997 Long- Term Stock Incentive Program (the "Program"). 2. Grant of Restricted Stock Units Sprint hereby grants to Director under the Program ____________________ FON restricted stock units (the "RSUs"). Each RSU represents the unsecured right to require Sprint to deliver to Director one share of FON Stock. With respect to 100% of the RSUs, the "vesting date" and "initial delivery date" are on February 8, 2008. The RSUs are governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Other Stock Unit Awards set forth in Section 9(c) of the Program. On each date on which Sprint pays a dividend on the FON Stock, the RSU will accrue additional whole or fractional RSUs equal to the number of shares of FON Stock the dividend would buy at the fair market value of FON Stock on the dividend payment date. These additional shares vest and are subject to delivery at the same time as the shares originally payable under the RSU. 3. Plan Information Director hereby acknowledges having read the enclosed 1997 Long- Term Stock Incentive Program Plan Information Statement dated February 2005. To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the terms of such information statement and the Program are hereby incorporated by this reference. In Witness Whereof, Sprint has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and the Director has executed the same as of the Grant Date. Sprint Corporation By: ________________________ Authorized Officer _______________, "Director"

Exhibit 10.3 Award Agreement This Award Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of ___________________, 2005 (the "Grant Date"), by and between Sprint Corporation, a Kansas corporation (together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries, "Sprint") and __________________________ (the "Executive"), an employee of Sprint for the grant of options and restricted stock units with respect to Sprint's FON Common Stock, par value $2.00 per share ("FON Stock"). In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the parties agree to the following. 1. Defined Terms Incorporated from 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in Sprint's 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program (the "Program"). 2. Grant of Stock Options Sprint hereby grants to Executive under the Program options to buy __________________ shares of FON Stock at a strike price of $26.7465 per share (the "Option"). The Option becomes exercisable at a rate of 25% of the total number of shares subject to purchase on each of the first four anniversaries of the Grant Date and expires on the 10th anniversary of the Grant Date. The Option is governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Options set forth in Section 6(g) of the Program except (i) as provided in Section 4 below, and (ii) that the strike price of $26.7465 was set at 110% of the Fair Market Value of one Share of FON Stock on the Grant Date. 3. Grant of Restricted Stock Units Sprint hereby grants to Executive under the Program __________________ FON restricted stock units (the "RSUs"). Each RSU represents the unsecured right to require Sprint to deliver to Executive one share of FON Stock. With respect to 100% of the RSUs, the "vesting date" and "initial delivery date" is on the third anniversary of the Grant Date subject to paragraph 4.01 below. The RSUs are governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Other Stock Unit Awards set forth in Section 9(c) of the Program except as provided in Section 4 below. 4. Terms different from Standard Terms 4.01 Performance adjustment. Subject to discretion of the Compensation Committee of Sprint's Board of Directors, the number of RSUs in Section 3 will be adjusted by multiplying that number by a payout percentage (from 0% to 200%) based on achievement of financial objectives relating to enterprise economic value added during 2005 (the "Performance Adjustment"). This Performance Adjustment will be made as soon as practicable after 2005. If Executive remains an employee of Sprint throughout 2005, cash dividends on the FON Stock underlying these RSUs during 2005 will be paid to Executive as soon as practicable after the Performance Adjustment. These cash dividends will be calculated by first adjusting the RSUs by the Performance Adjustment and then applying the dividend rate for each quarterly dividend for which Executive held the RSUs, as adjusted, on each dividend record date. After the Performance Adjustment is made, if cash dividends are paid on the underlying FON Stock, Executive will receive cash dividends for RSUs held on the dividend record date as provided in Section 9(c) of the Program. 4.02 Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. The limitation on acceleration of vesting under Section 6(g)(viii) and Section 9(c)(iv) of the Program, relating to payments or benefits contingent on a change in control within the meaning of Code Section 280G, does not apply to the Option or RSUs. 5. Plan Information Executive hereby acknowledges having read the 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program Plan Information Statement dated February 2005 available on line at http://ppld.corp.sprint.com/hr/comp/ec.html. To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the terms of such information statement and the Program are hereby incorporated by this reference. In Witness Whereof, Sprint has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and the Executive has executed the same as of the Grant Date. Sprint Corporation By: ________________________ Authorized Officer ____________________________ "Executive"

Exhibit 10.4 Award Agreement This Award Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of __________________, 2005 (the "Grant Date"), by and between Sprint Corporation, a Kansas corporation (together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries, "Sprint") and _________________________ (the "Executive"), an employee of Sprint for the grant of options and restricted stock units with respect to Sprint's FON Common Stock, par value $2.00 per share ("FON Stock"). In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the parties agree to the following. 1. Defined Terms Incorporated from 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in Sprint's 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program (the "Program"). 2. Grant of Stock Options Sprint hereby grants to Executive under the Program options to buy __________________ shares of FON Stock at a strike price of $26.7465 per share (the "Option"). The Option becomes exercisable at a rate of 25% of the total number of shares subject to purchase on each of the first four anniversaries of the Grant Date and expires on the 10th anniversary of the Grant Date. The Option is governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Options set forth in Section 6(g) of the Program except (i) as provided in Section 4 below, and (ii) that the strike price of $26.7465 was set at 110% of the Fair Market Value of one Share of FON Stock on the Grant Date. 3. Grant of Restricted Stock Units Sprint hereby grants to Executive under the Program ___________________ FON restricted stock units (the "RSUs"). Each RSU represents the unsecured right to require Sprint to deliver to Executive one share of FON Stock. With respect to 100% of the RSUs, the "vesting date" and "initial delivery date" is on the third anniversary of the Grant Date subject to paragraph 4.02 below. The RSUs are governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Other Stock Unit Awards set forth in Section 9(c) of the Program except as provided in Section 4 below. 4. Terms different from Standard Terms 4.01 Retention Program vesting. If Executive is involuntarily terminated without cause with a last day worked before the one year anniversary of the contemplated spin-off of Sprint's Local division (the "Spin-off), any unvested portion of the Option or RSUs will vest on an accelerated basis, if: (1) the Sprint Nextel merger is completed and the Executive remains employed with Sprint, or is on severance, at that time; and, (2) the Option or RSUs have been outstanding for at least one year as of the last day of the Executive's severance pay period. This vesting acceleration will be effective on the last day of the Executive's severance pay period. For this purpose, transfer to the spun-off company in connection with the Spin-off is not considered involuntary termination. In the event the Spin-off does not occur, acceleration will only occur if the Executive is involuntarily terminated without cause with a last day worked before the one year anniversary of the Sprint Nextel merger. 4.02 Performance adjustment. Subject to discretion of the Compensation Committee of Sprint's Board of Directors, the number of RSUs in Section 3 will be adjusted by multiplying that number by a payout percentage (from 0% to 200%) based on achievement of financial objectives relating to enterprise economic value added during 2005 (the "Performance Adjustment"). This Performance Adjustment will be made as soon as practicable after 2005. If Executive remains an employee of Sprint throughout 2005, cash dividends on the FON Stock underlying these RSUs during 2005 will be paid to Executive as soon as practicable after the Performance Adjustment. These cash dividends will be calculated by first adjusting the RSUs by the Performance Adjustment and then applying the dividend rate for each quarterly dividend for which Executive held the RSUs, as adjusted, on each dividend record date. After the Performance Adjustment is made, if cash dividends are paid on the underlying FON Stock, Executive will receive cash dividends for RSUs held on the dividend record date as provided in Section 9(c) of the Program. 4.03 Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. The limitation on acceleration of vesting under Section 6(g)(viii) and Section 9(c)(iv) of the Program, relating to payments or benefits contingent on a change in control within the meaning of Code Section 280G, does not apply to the Option or RSUs. 5. Plan Information Executive hereby acknowledges having read the 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program Plan Information Statement dated February 2005 available on line at http://ppld.corp.sprint.com/hr/comp/ec.html. To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the terms of such information statement and the Program are hereby incorporated by this reference. In Witness Whereof, Sprint has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and the Executive has executed the same as of the Grant Date. Sprint Corporation By: __________________________ Authorized Officer ______________________________ "Executive"

Exhibit 10.5 Award Agreement This Award Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of _______________, 2005 (the "Grant Date"), by and between Sprint Corporation, a Kansas corporation (together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries, "Sprint") and _____________________ (the "Executive"), an employee of Sprint, for the grant of options and restricted stock units with respect to Sprint's FON Common Stock, par value $2.00 per share ("FON Stock"). In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, the parties agree to the following. 1. Defined Terms Incorporated from 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in Sprint's 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program (the "Program"). 2. Grant of Stock Options Sprint hereby grants to Executive under the Program options to buy _________________ shares of FON Stock at a strike price of $26.7465 per share (the "Option"). The Option becomes exercisable at a rate of 25% of the total number of shares subject to purchase on each of the first four anniversaries of the Grant Date and expires on the 10th anniversary of the Grant Date. The Option is governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Options set forth in Section 6(g) of the Program except (i) as provided in Section 4 below, and (ii) that the strike price of $26.7465 was set at 110% of the Fair Market Value of one Share of FON Stock on the Grant Date. 3. Grant of Restricted Stock Units Sprint hereby grants to Executive under the Program _______________ FON restricted stock units (the "RSUs"). Each RSU represents the unsecured right to require Sprint to deliver to Executive one share of FON Stock. With respect to 100% of the RSUs, the "vesting date" and "initial delivery date" is on the third anniversary of the Grant Date, subject to paragraph 4.02 below. The RSUs are governed by, and this Agreement hereby incorporates, the Standard Terms of Other Stock Unit Awards set forth in Section 9(c) of the Program except as provided in Section 4 below. 4. Terms different from Standard Terms 4.01 Retention Program vesting. If Executive is involuntarily terminated without cause with a last day worked before the one year anniversary of the Sprint Nextel merger, any unvested portion of the Option or RSUs will vest on an accelerated basis, if: (1) the merger is completed and the Executive remains employed with Sprint, or is on severance, at that time; and, (2) the Option or RSUs have been outstanding for at least one year as of the last day of the Executive's severance pay period. This vesting acceleration will be effective on the last day of the Executive's severance pay period. For this purpose, transfer to the spun-off company in connection with the contemplated spin-off of Sprint's Local division is not considered involuntary termination. 4.02 Performance adjustment. Subject to discretion of the Compensation Committee of Sprint's Board of Directors, the number of RSUs in Section 3 will be adjusted by multiplying that number by a payout percentage (from 0% to 200%) based on achievement of financial objectives relating to enterprise economic value added during 2005 (the "Performance Adjustment"). This Performance Adjustment will be made as soon as practicable after 2005. If Executive remains an employee of Sprint throughout 2005, cash dividends on the FON Stock underlying these RSUs during 2005 will be paid to Executive as soon as practicable after the Performance Adjustment. These cash dividends will be calculated by first adjusting the RSUs by the Performance Adjustment and then applying the dividend rate for each quarterly dividend for which Executive held the RSUs, as adjusted, on each dividend record date. After the Performance Adjustment is made, if cash dividends are paid on the underlying FON Stock, Executive will receive cash dividends for RSUs held on the dividend record date as provided in Section 9(c) of the Program. 5. Plan Information Executive hereby acknowledges having read the 1997 Long-Term Stock Incentive Program Plan Information Statement dated February 2005 available on line at http://ppld.corp.sprint.com/hr/comp/ec.html. To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the terms of such information statement and the Program are hereby incorporated by this reference. In Witness Whereof, Sprint has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and the Executive has executed the same as of the Grant Date. Sprint Corporation By: _________________________ Authorized Officer _____________________________ "Executive"

Exhibit 10.6 -3-

Exhibit 99 NEWS RELEASE [SPRINT LOGO] Media Contact: Scott Stoffel, Sprint, 913-794-3603 scott.e.stoffel@mail.sprint.com FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - ------------------------------- Retired Bank of America Vice Chairman Joins Sprint Board of Directors OVERLAND PARK, Kan. - Feb. 8, 2005 - Sprint (NYSE: FON) today announced that James H. Hance Jr., who recently retired as vice chairman of Bank of America Corporation, has joined its board of directors. Hance served with Bank of America for nearly 18 years and was one of its key architects, helping build it into one of the largest financial service providers in the world. Hance joined NCNB, predecessor to Bank of America, in March 1987 and was named chief financial officer in July 1988, a role he held until 2004. He also served as vice chairman for Bank of America from 1994 until he retired in January 2005, and was a member of the company's board of directors for more than seven years. "Jim Hance was instrumental in helping transform a small Southeastern bank with earnings of $198 million in 1986 into a global powerhouse with 2004 earnings of more than $14 billion," said Linda Koch Lorimer, chair of Sprint's nominating and corporate governance committee. "Jim's track record of success and extensive financial experience will be a tremendous asset to the Sprint board." Prior to joining Bank of America in 1987, Hance's experience included 17 years with Price Waterhouse (now PricewaterhouseCoopers), a global accounting firm. A native of St. Joseph, Mo., he earned a bachelor's degree at Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., and a master's degree in business at Washington University in St. Louis. In addition to his professional experience, Hance also is a member of several leading public, financial and civic boards and associations. With the appointment of Hance, the Sprint board stands at 12 directors. Ten of the 12 directors are independent, including Hance, based on the board's 2005 determination. Gary Forsee, Sprint chairman and chief executive officer, is the only employee director.
-2- Sprint's other directors include: DuBose Ausley, attorney, Ausley & McMullen, a law firm in Tallahassee, Fla., where he was chairman from 1982 to June 1, 2002; Gordon Bethune, retired chairman and chief executive officer of Continental Airlines; E. Linn Draper, Jr., retired chairman of American Electric Power Co. Inc (AEP); Deborah Henretta, president of global baby and adult care division, Procter & Gamble; Irvine O. Hockaday, Jr., retired president and chief executive officer of Hallmark Cards, Inc.; Linda Koch Lorimer, vice president and secretary of the university, Yale University; Charles E. Rice, chairman of Mayport Venture Partners, LLC and former vice chairman of Bank of America Corporation; Louis W. Smith, retired president and chief executive officer of the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation; Gerald L. Storch, vice chairman of Target Corporation; and William H. Swanson, chairman and chief executive officer of Raytheon Company. For more information about the Sprint board of directors, visit www.sprint.com/ir/cg/bod2.html. About Sprint Sprint offers an extensive range of innovative communication products and solutions, including global IP, wireless, local and multiproduct bundles. A Fortune 100 company with more than $27 billion in annual revenues in 2004, Sprint is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying state-of-the-art network technologies, including the United States' first nationwide all-digital, fiber-optic network; an award-winning Tier 1 Internet backbone; and one of the largest 100-percent digital, nationwide wireless networks in the United States. For more information, visit www.sprint.com/mr.


