FILE:S/S-8K-20051006085404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is an investor relations Q&A regarding Nextel Partners' definitive proxy statement filed on September 22, 2005, which exhibit is also incorporated herein by this reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 6, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Partners' Views on "Fair Market Value"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intrinsic Value
 
 
 
 
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of Competitive/Technological Changes
 
 
 
 
 
 
Morgan Stanley's Precedent Transactions
 
 
 
 
Most Recent Unaffected Market Prices
 
 
 
 
 
Challenge Process
 
 
 
Cautionary Note
 
Certain of the statements in this document are forward-looking information within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements are based on various assumptions as to future events. There could be differences between these assumptions and actual future circumstances or events, including as a result of the put process and those differences could be material. In addition, this Q&A includes various statements of our opinions, indicated by phrases such as "we believe," "we think" and the like.
 
While we base these statements of opinion on facts or assumptions we believe to be reliable, statements of opinion are only that and readers must recognize that others, including Partners, have opposing opinions. In addition, all statements of opinion are made as of the date of this Q&A and could change based on future developments or the discovery of or reassessment of existing facts, presently known or unknown to us. This document speaks only as of its date, and we disclaim any duty to update the information herein.
 
Additional Information and Where to Find It
 
We may file a registration statement with the SEC in order to issue shares as consideration for the exercise of the Partners' put right. SHAREHOLDERS ARE ENCOURAGED TO READ THAT REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, INCLUDING THE PROSPECTUS THAT WOULD BE A PART OF THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PURCHASE OF PARTNERS' CLASS A COMMON STOCK PURSUANT TO PARTNERS' PUT RIGHT. When such documents are filed with the SEC, investors and security holders will be able to obtain them when they become available free of charge at the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov, or from Sprint Nextel Investor Relations at Sprint Nextel Corporation, 2001 Edmund Halley Drive, Reston, Virginia 20191, 703.433.4300.
 
Participants in Solicitation
 
We and our directors and executive officers and other members of our management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Partners' shareholders. Information
 
concerning our directors and executive officers is included in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in Sprint's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Reg. No. 333-123333) filed with the SEC on June 10, 2005. Additional information regarding the interests of our participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the put right, if any, will be included in the registration statement to be filed with the SEC.
 
About Sprint Nextel
 
Sprint Nextel offers a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications services to consumer, business and government customers. Sprint Nextel is widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying innovative technologies, including two robust wireless networks offering industry leading mobile data services; instant national and international push-to-talk capabilities; and an award-winning and global Tier 1 Internet backbone. For more information, visit www.sprint.com.
 


